u2020-06-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Sándor Szabó. We're gonna go back to the rest of yesterday. It follows that the general debate and conclusion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2021 will follow. The bill is T/10710. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/10710/1. can be found on the House's IT network and on our website for everyone. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today, which will be available to you continuously on the two large billboards. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-1	Dear Parliament, Today's six-hour timeframe is divided into 123 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 57 minutes for the KDNP Group, 42 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 39 minutes for the MSZP Group, 30 minutes for the DK Group, 26 minutes for the LMP Group, 25 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 18 minutes for the independent Members.
u2020-06-12-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available today. First, in accordance with the rules of the house, the Members who have been registered in advance in writing will take the floor. Imre Ritter first. [[Imre Ritter is not in the Chamber.]] Looks like the morning problems, traffic problems, could be a problem. The next speaker was Mr János Pócs, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Members have said in recent days, the draft budget for 2021 must necessarily focus on relaunching the economy that has been in difficulty with the coronal virus epidemic and maintaining epidemiological preparedness. For agriculture, it is important that, despite all this, in the proposed budget law for 2021, the resources available for agriculture and environmental protection exceed the previous years, and therefore, despite unexpected difficulties, this number is increasing. Based on the proposed budget law of 2021, the agricultural portfolio has HUF 137.7 billion in the chapter of the Agricultural Ministry and HUF 84 billion in the chapter of the Economic Protection Fund. Irrigation development measures will significantly help to increase the competitiveness of the gardening sector, and I would therefore like to explain this later. From a national policy point of view, it is of paramount importance to develop agricultural production and water management in a coordinated manner, to develop water management that is sustainable both from an agricultural and environmental point of view, and to maintain safe food production. The government's determined goal is to increase the volume of irrigable areas significantly by 100,000 hectares by 2024. To this end, in September 2018, the government decided that, in order to increase the amount of irrigation water available to farmers, it is expected to provide a total of HUF 170 billion of development resources for the development of the supply and demand side of water for irrigation between 2020 and 2030. In 2021, 17 billion HUF of resources can be used by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Interior. In the Economic Protection Fund chapter, the development of the basic irrigation infrastructure was planned for HUF 9 billion, HUF 741.9 million and HUF 5 billion, while another part of the amount was incorporated into the institutional budget of the relevant wallets. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the government is to increase employment in the gardening, livestock and seed production sectors, with substantial support from both EU and national sources. The resources contained in the chapter on land management tasks, which are intended to provide land use rights and eliminate undivided common land ownership, should be mentioned. It is a good thing that in 2021 more resources will be available for the national programme, the. Drink milk! As well as for school fruit schemes and unchanged resources, the aid to farmers remains available. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to point out that support for agriculture is not only beneficial for farmers; it has a positive impact on foreign trade, it is also good for the consumer society. Over the last ten years, we have managed to ensure that consumers are looking not only at the price but also at the content. By tightening up the law prohibiting unfair market behaviour, we have now achieved that consumers are looking for fresh Hungarian products of certain origin, based on Hungary's excellent territorial and climate potential, the preparedness of Hungarian producers and the continued promotion of European competitors. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the constant alarm of uncredited doubters, therefore, we can confidently look to the future. The Left is not only uncredited when it tries to take a stand on agriculture, and, yes, it is uncredited when it looks at the destruction of agriculture. What is new, fellow Members? The left, whatever it is, has been doing the same thing for a long time: they have consistently and precisely accused someone of what they have done, and when the truth comes out, they ignore it or lie even more. This is the case with agriculture. Just before 2010, left-wing governments managed to do so much damage that we had been behind the Western European countries for decades. At that time, it was not a coincidence that agricultural workers were told that agriculture had two enemies: the weather and Balliberal governments. However, thanks to the persistent work of farmers and the national-Christian government, Hungarian agriculture has not gone and is not going to ruin. On the contrary, it has been on an ever-increasing track since 2010, making a significant contribution to the country's economic performance. [[8.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, This continuous and gradual development may continue on the basis of the figures in the 2021 budget. The necessary resources have been provided for effective work. Ladies and gentlemen, After what has been said, I can say with all my heart that I support this proposal and that I ask my fellow Members to support it. Mr President, thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-12-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Tamás Csányi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As last year, I submitted a number of budget amendments to the central budget, so I took place again this year to present some burning problems in the debate on the 4th constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. Of course, it is not possible to address all the problems of each settlement, so I have also come to the conclusion that I am presenting the topics and opportunities that have been submitted to me in my speech. As is well known, it is always necessary to include the source from which we want to take it, and we want to spend taxpayers' money for other more sensible purposes, obviously more meaningful to us. This year, I have identified two such sources in the writing of the modifiers, which I either consider unnecessary or feel bravely reduced. In the case of infrastructure investments, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line would be taken from more than HUF 182 billion, while other investments would be made from more than HUF 23 billion for government communication and net propaganda. I have, of course, also asked István Happy as a signatory to all of these proposals to be able to jointly represent these important amendments in the constituency, but my fellow Member has not taken advantage of this opportunity. He's got a soul. So let's look at the suggestions. We would like to see more infrastructural development in my home town, Mezőtúr. Let's take a look at these first. The approach of the Mezőtúr from Törökszentmiklós on Highway 46 can only be possible by crossing the railway track, it has been an acute problem for many years that frequent downtroopers, up to 5-10 minutes of expectations, slow down road traffic. However, all of this can become extremely serious if patients are to be taken by ambulance from Mezőtúr to Szolnok in an emergency, because every minute is wasted here. While underpass or overpass in neighbouring settlements solves this problem, there are none on Mezőtúr. To this end, I propose to establish a non-level passage instead of a level passage. Speaking of which, it is also a serious problem for the city of Mezőtúr, the section of road 46 that leads through the city. The increase in transit traffic and the load on freight are many times higher than the road's load, and it also has a significant impact on the comfort of the city's population, not to mention air pollution. To this end, it is essential to establish an escape route that could address this problem and speed up transit traffic. If the roads are already roads, the renovation of Petőfi Sándor Street in the heart of the city is essential, so to say it would be a priority, because this street connects the 46 major road through the city to the city centre. In the street you can find the police department, the notary office, the Reformed College of Mezőtúr, the High School and the Primary School, the Catholic primary school, the Catholic church, the Reformed Great Church in the city centre, the Teleki Blanka High School and the Liberty Square residence on the other side by car. Here was built a new residential park, which also increases the traffic on the street. Speaking of inland roads in Mezőtúr, a large part of them do not have solid road surfaces, so repairing the ground roads with solid cover, I think the XXI. It would be an essential task in the first century. I also tabled an amendment to this. Mezőtúr and Szarvas are two neighbouring settlements, between which the Trimás-Körös river forms a natural barrier and on which it is possible to pass periodically with the help of a ferry, but if time does not allow it, it becomes virtually impossible. Almost every city administration has tried to solve this problem, so far it has failed. Thus, when the ferry is out of service, the distance between the two settlements increases by 20 kilometers to 47 kilometers. In order to speed up traffic and make it more comfortable, it is necessary to establish a road bridge on the road connecting the two settlements above the Trimas-Körös river. Higher education in Mezőtúr has a half a century of history, which, unfortunately, ended permanently during the Fidesz government and the Fidesz city leadership. The faculty building was completed in 1954, and the 320-person college was completed in 1968. The buildings, which have been empty for years, are already used by the city, mainly for tourism purposes, but also temporarily for primary school. These properties are important to the city both historically and economically. However, their energy renovation and modernisation are essential. This is what my amendment tabled calls for. The Hortobágy-Berettyó channel in the interior of Mezőtúr could be one of the attractions and gems of the settlement if the appropriate revitalization procedures were carried out. The management of the settlement has tried to solve this problem that has existed for decades and is becoming more and more serious, but because of a permanent shortage of resources, so far it has not been possible to do so. Dear fellow Members, Several applications, implementation plans are available and will be re-established, so everything is given to start the revitalization process. We hope that, with the adoption of my amendment, the appropriate source will also be available, and that the Fidesz government will spend money on this instead of government communication. Just like the hospital in Péztúr, as according to the latest data from the Hungarian Treasury, the debt of the Mezőtúr Hospital and Clinic increases by tens of millions forints every month. Severe underfunding makes the institution's day-to-day operation difficult, and I therefore also initiated the resolution of hospital debt in my amendment proposal. The centre of the 4th constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, respected fellow Members, Törökszentmiklós, where it is also possible to spend public money more intelligently than the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and government propaganda. For decades, the section of the city of Törökszentmiklós, which leads through the city of road 46, has been a serious problem. As in the case of Mezőtúr, it would be essential to establish an escape route here. Just as it is essential to renovate the inland road network in Törökszentmiklós. In the case of existing solid roads, deterioration, the formation of potholes and tracks makes it difficult for residents to travel. It is also necessary, in some cases, to arrange benches or widen roads. Törökszentmiklós is 11 km away from Oballa. The approach of the one hundred - souled settlement is very difficult due to the current state of the road, as five kilometres of road is virtually impenetrable. People in the settlement necessarily go to Törökszentmiklós on a daily basis, so their transport is often difficult. I think it would be essential to renovate at least five kilometres of this road, which is also what my amendment aims to do. I would like to talk about the rehabilitation of the city centre of Törökszentmiklós, as Törökszentmiklós celebrates the 300th anniversary of his resettlement this year. In the centre of the city, the abandoned building, known as Pyramid, is uglier. In order to complete the project, the municipality does not have sufficient funding, if the proposal was supported, this torso would disappear from the centre of Törökszentmiklós, and one of the most important agricultural towns in the Great Plain could boast a renewed, impressive city centre. As I said, Törökszentmiklós celebrates his 300th anniversary in a commemorative year until 21 December 2021. In addition to the events, the town hall will also play an important role, and a worthy memorial will be set up in its courtyard. My amendment is for the reconstruction of the yard, for the construction of a parking lot, for green surface, for precipitation, for the construction of a solid housing. The parking lot is also used by the district office, as well as the employees and customers of the government window, so the reconstruction would be easier for many people in their everyday lives. The oldest building in Törökszentmiklós is the Calvary church. Dear fellow Members, XII. Pope Pius donated a statue of grace to the settlement, which Cardinal Mindszenty, Prince Prímás sent to the settlement in 1948 in the framework of the Nagykunság Mária Days. From then on, Törökszentmiklós also acts as a going-away space. Unfortunately, the building is not in the right condition, it is torn three ways, so the solution and the renovation of the church cannot be delayed, and the reconstruction of the Calvary Hill is also essential for this shrine to be able to wait for its believers in a decent way. After all, finally, honourable Members, I would like to ask the members of the Government, especially the elected representative of the region, István Happy, to support my 13 amendments, as outlined above, in order to improve the lives of the people who live here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[8.20]]
u2020-06-12-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Listening to my better fellow Member's speech, I was wondering why he has not supported in recent years the budgets in which the renovation of the Reformed College in Földtúr, the renovation of the old library, the renovation of the decorative hall, the renovation of the church, and a number of items that have allowed our monuments and the locations of our living communities to be built and beautiful in that area in recent years. You've seen many of these renovations in that area. We never said we were done with everything, that all the renovations were done. The importance of bypasses or various improvements remains. But if you have already mentioned the amendments, I have also raised the question that the items that I have listed have been included in Hungary's central budget in recent years. Then we'll ask you for your support on this. The current budget has been prepared in line with the extraordinary situation because we can see the priorities of the epidemic situation, the situation it has created in Hungary. I think that if we had to show two important areas in terms of results in the last ten years, I would do these two in terms of employment, job creation and family policy. Of course, the growth of the economy was important, the rise in wages was important, the preservation of pensions was important, and even the increase in consumer value was important, the tax cuts were important, but if we look at it, perhaps the backbone of our entire policy was that we wanted to create a work-based society. That is why, while there was 12 percent unemployment in 2010, we could count on 3 percent in the months before the crisis. I think it is a very important achievement that the Hungarian people have earned work, a job that can be made a living on a fair and progressive basis. We believe that the first and most important element of the social safety net is work, work is the first step of the social safety net, and that all further assistance, public and social assistance should take place only after we have been through this. Therefore, it is important that as many Hungarians as possible work, so it is also important that the commitment that the government has made in terms of creating as many jobs as the virus has destroyed. I think it is very important that there is also a significant budgetary resource for employment and job-creating investments next year. With regard to the Economic Protection Fund, it seems that the budget foot is secured by this commitment to create as many jobs as the virus has destroyed. This budget had to be designed and implemented in such a way as to help resolve the situation, to help the economy bounce back and to restore the period before the epidemiological situation, because at the time the Hungarian economy was on a growing path, the engine of economic growth in Central Europe came out of Central Europe, and economic growth was already around 5 percent, and wage growth has been continuing over the past period. It is important that this budget is in the service of finding our way back to it as soon as possible. Although they often try, these results cannot be denied either by left-wing politicians, since the most important antidote for left-wing politics is numbers. The figures show that we are on the right track, the figures show that this budget must also take every opportunity to help us find a way back in the situation that has taken place as soon as possible, with the cooperation of Hungarian people, with its hard work and with the right policy of the government in recent years. I would like to mention that in addition to the Anti-CDC Fund and the Economic Protection Fund, the government will expect a larger reserve next year. I think this is very right, because we have seen the extraordinary importance of reserve provision in exceptional situations. Last year, a year ago, in the budgetary debate, we listened to opposition representatives about their various amendments, which made various amendments at the expense of the reserve, against the extraordinary government reserve and against the National Defence Fund. The left-wing politicians spent eight-tenths of the National Defence Fund in head and in words here at the Parliament's plenary session and with the amendments, and if we had then allowed the temptation to accept these amendments, then we would have basically had an empty register of epidemics, in which we were helped quickly and firmly to move that amount into the reserve. It was there, untouched in March, when the operational tribe made the necessary decisions, when the procurement of protective equipment had to start, when the most modern mobile epidemic hospital in Europe had to be erected during lightning time. Then these money was untapped. This year, again, I urge my fellow Members, learning from last year's case, not to submit proposals for amendments that consume the reserve, which use the reserve, because we can see that this reserve is good for situations where unforeseen events are taking place in Hungary, when we face unforeseen situations, when there is a need for an urgent, unlabeled, important reserve to be available for the protection of the country and for the health or safety of Hungarian people. I therefore consider it very important that this reserve is included again this year. Of course, there are also elements of the budget on which we are reluctant to spend, which must be said. For example, we continue to carry with us the burden of payment of extremely harmful PPP schemes introduced by left-wing governments. In the 2021 budget, around HUF 150 billion is the amount that Hungary still has to pay for the old harmful contracts concluded 10-12-13 years ago. Extremely many of these PPP schemes have been triggered because they have been harmful to the Hungarian economy in recent years. The money that had to be taken out of this construction, for example, in university development, prison development, motorway development, is very large. Left-wing governments have told us that this construction is good because it does not build from credit, it does not develop from credit, but it creates a long-term payment strategy based on a contract with an investor from a private sector. It's just that if you look at the numbers, you see again, it doesn't add up to how much public debt has increased during this time. They said that these developments did not take place through credit, so this is a good arrangement, but the government debt grew to the greatest extent in the years when left-wing governments concluded PPP schemes. So when my fellow left-wing Members submit proposals for amending the budget for next year, think that there is a HUF 150 billion amount there, which is there because the contract with friends in the PPP scheme was more important than the interest of the Hungarian economy. I would also like to mention the social sector, as social and child protection expenditure will also increase in the future. Next year, labour market support for people with disabilities will also increase. It is very important that since 2010, the number of people with changed working skills who participate in the labour market has tripled, doing value-making, value-bearing work and enjoying social appreciation. I think there's a way to go on this road. We have seen a lot of good initiatives in public companies and companies operating in the market. I do not want to highlight company names now, but we have seen very, very many initiatives, practices, special training opportunities and opportunities for the labour market as good practices as a collaboration between the state and large companies, resulting in the work and appreciation of our fellow countrymen who have changed their skills in recent years. I would like to stress that all family support measures and support will be retained. It is very important to have more for families next year. While in 2010 the amount was less than HUF 1000 billion, HUF 960 billion, which was dedicated to families in the last year's budget of the left-wing governments, it will reach nearly HUF 2300 billion next year. [[8.30]] My fellow Members feel the difference in attitude: while one government thinks that families in Hungary have less than a thousand billion forints or less, the national civilian government thinks that Hungarian families and families raising children should be given as much support as possible. Therefore, the support of the baby shower remains, the support of large families remains, and by the end of this year nearly HUF 2900 billion remained for the Hungarian families because of the introduction of the family-type tax system, I believe that the Hungarian families have never received this amount of support in the history of the Hungarian economy or in Hungarian tax policy. It is very right to appreciate child rearing, it is very right to support and strengthen families. I believe that it is a particularly positive feature of the next year's budget, that, not only will it reduce the support of families, but even in this situation, we will be able to increase it, just as planned, that the total free supply of textbooks from 1 September to the next year is one of the types of family support. Here we are regularly accused that these family support benefits the middle-class or better-style family, well, free children's meals or free textbooks are not like this. I am pleased that we can mobilise significant extra resources for the family support system. I think it is very important that next year the 13th month's pension is due back. We can remember that this was the construction that Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left-wing government closed, led out, and decided that this form of support was not important for Hungarian pensioners. On the other hand, in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government made an alliance with pensioners and agreed to maintain the purchasing power of pensions; but not only did it manage to maintain the purchasing power of pensions, but there has been a total 38 percent increase in pensions over the last ten years, which means an increase of 10.3 percent in real terms. I think that not only did we keep our word, but we managed to give extra help to pensioners. We have been able to pay a pension premium several times, and I am very pleased that next year's budget is also planned to pay the pension premium, as we hope that the Hungarian economy will be in such a state, and thanks to the cooperation of Hungarian people, we will be able to achieve once again the result of paying a pension premium in order to appreciate the elderly. It is very important that what left-wing MEPs have called a brand here in the parliamentary debate over the last few weeks in relation to the 13th month pension is intended to be a serious help. The elderly, the generation ahead of us, who survived communism, who built Hungary after the regime change, the Hungarian economy, deserve this respect, and I think it is right for us to think about it. I believe that it is important to increase the support for religious activities, since the budget submitted in 2010 provided no more than HUF 26 billion in faith. Here, too, we can see an increase of more than 220 percent in the 2021 budget. We have also been able to see to my fellow Member the example of how many places it was built, renovated in church institutions, schools, religious activities, real estate for the purpose of community building, the number of places we could support camps, pilgrimages and community-building activities. I am very pleased that this support is not falling in the next period, but is growing. I consider it important to increase the support for sport and leisure activities. In the last budget submitted by left-wing governments, HUF 63.5 billion was available for this next year. I think it is important to see progress in areas that are important for us and for the Hungarian people, such as the area of education, such as the area of health, such as the social area, such as the cultural area, the leisure and sports area, such as the ecclesiastical area, all of which we spend more than in 2010, but, despite the crisis, in the 2021 budget, we spend more on these areas than we do this year, in the 2020 budget year to be implemented. I am very pleased that the crisis is not being dealt with by the government by withdrawing investment by switching to a welfare-based society, an aid-based economy, but by providing more resources for everything. The economy needs to be speeded up, wage increases must continue, investments must continue, and, of course, support for families and the security of Hungary must be guaranteed, so that the appropriate resources are available. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Sándor Szabó, Member of the MSZP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a former head of government, it is not surprising that I will remain consistent and, as in the previous five years, I would like to comment primarily on the budget to the municipalities, the local government part; my fellow Members have already said the position of MSZP on social, educational and health issues in the previous days. The bill on Hungary's budget for 2021 confirms the previous press reports and the direction of government action against the municipalities that have taken so far, that the withdrawal of municipal resources will take on an increasing scale, which, moreover, as we see, will go beyond 2021. Reading the draft state budget for next year, I believe that the financial bleeding of municipalities will continue. Financially, local authorities will be in a situation where, in fact, it will be difficult for municipalities to carry out basic municipal tasks. It seems that the settlements will be completely out of line financially, and in fact it will affect the people who live there to a significant extent. More and more money is being taken away from the government. There is a recent survey carried out by TÖOSZ in the last month by consulting hundreds of municipalities, which clearly shows that nearly 20 percent of settlements already do not have any reserves, but otherwise this finding also contains additional survey data, including the fact that 14 percent of settlements are able to operate without borrowing for half a year, as well as that 50 percent of settlements have a financial reserve of up to two months. This survey also notes that 2300 of the 3200 municipalities will not have any tax revenue next year, since there is no significant business in these settlements that would be subject to business tax, no tourist attraction that would have caused them to be affected by the tourist tax, and now they have fallen from their most important source of income, the car tax. When the government says that it will otherwise increase the support of the settlements, all it really does is keep the municipalities deprived of their income on a ventilator. In the 900 settlements where there is a business tax, due to the decline of the economy, there is a decreasing income, but no one knows how big that hole will be, 1-70% of the settlements will be left behind. As with TÖOSZ, I am confident that the abolition of the tax advance will not, by the way, cause serious liquidity problems in the municipalities with the business tax. Of course, the government can say that it currently gives municipalities significantly more resources than every previous year, but the picture is nuanced on the other side, as I have already said, that the government is actually taking away their share of the total vehicle tax revenue from the municipalities, which has already happened this year, and will continue in the following year. And then there is the solidarity contribution, otherwise this amount is only accounting in the budget, in practice the central budget will simply not pay this amount to the municipalities concerned, reducing their support. The increase in the solidarity contribution will also mean a significant hole in the lives of the settlements. In 2021, the state will take 161 billion forints away from the settlements by taking down tax power under the set-off rule from 34 thousand forints/person to 22 thousand forints/person according to the previous tax power calculation, which is somehow entirely coincidentally linked to the fact that there are about 1800 settlements where the opposition has been better represented in the municipal elections. Moreover, the picture is further nuanced by the fact that the total revenue of the entire municipal sector in which the total revenue of the municipalities will be only slightly higher in 2021 than in 2020; this represents a 1.5 percent increase, which can be estimated at around 3000 billion. But if we look at the calculations of the central bank and, by the way, the government's calculations that we're counting on inflation of 3 percent, then this 1.5 percent is almost minus 1.5 percent, which means the total revenue of the settlements will be reduced by 1.5 percent in real terms. [[8.40]] We have mentioned that the epidemic and the crisis have led to an increase in spending by municipalities, but their revenue has fallen significantly. And in their situation, the government only made it worse by, by the way, taking away the vehicle tax revenue, either temporarily making parking free or taking away the use of public spaces. Whether these decisions were good or bad, that's debatable. Obviously, one of them had a right to exist. One thing is certain, as a fact, that they caused problems with the revenue of the municipalities. The TOÖSZ also asked its own municipalities how they tried to solve these problems. Well, a large part of the municipalities have said that regulations have been amended on delays in investment, suspension of tenders, sale of real estate, or have been decided on reductions in fees, reimbursements or layoffs. In my direct constituency, Szeged, we detected the effects of the epidemic. The municipality has estimated a revenue loss of nearly HUF 5 billion, which includes the purchase of protective equipment and disinfectants for social workers and doctors in the order of 100 million. 250 million HUF free parking. The revenue of municipal companies is nearly HUF 1 billion. In public transport, we expect a revenue of HUF 750 million by clearly reducing public transport significantly. The part of the car tax in Szeged was HUF 500 million, and the city also helped businesses by letting go of the rent on municipal leases, which meant a hundred million HUF item. And then there's the biggest item, hip, local business tax, which we can only plan and count, with the next year's impact of 650 million forints. As we have looked at the 2021 budget, we can say that public transport funding also changes significantly in the lives of municipalities. While the city of Szeged received 328 million forints this year, this amount will disappear the following year. It's not a coincidence. In the past, we have argued here about the law that the trade tax should be used significantly for the translation of local transport, only this is precisely the revenue that has the greatest risk for the municipalities for the following year. Continuing the line, the government also attached its budgetary outlook until 2024 to the budget of 2024. Although this does not oblige the government to do anything, it is clear what the direction is for the future of the municipalities, how the government is counting these revenues, especially now not as the revenue of the municipalities, but as its own. This document shows that the solidarity tax will remain after 2021 until 2024 and that the car tax will not be refunded until 2024. If you look at only these two items, between 2021 and 24 HUF 365 billion will be lost due to the car tax and 640 billion will be lost as a solidarity contribution. This means nearly a thousand billion forints from the local government's register as a take-off. And the rescue is coming, because the government is helping the municipalities, of course, because it allows them to continue to be indebted. It is in the law that, according to the law on stability, settlements will, of course, have the opportunity to make loans beyond the year. By the way, a HUF 200 billion credit line is set. However, this problem will not be solved. The funding problem of the settlements will continue to ring, and, by the way, it points out exactly what we have already talked about in recent years that the sector is lacking in resources. To sum up, there is therefore no surplus in 2021 compared to 2020 in the central budget next year, but only internal restructuring is visible. The sub-scheme of local authorities is public finances, the amount of aid received is less than 5% of the total central budget, and therefore, as a local government sector, it is of little importance to the government. The government's objective is merely to ensure that the municipalities carry out their tasks in order and that they do not otherwise have a great margin of manoeuvre in the coming years. With the calculation of tax power, the special taxes and the solidarity contribution, the scope of all other municipalities is significantly reduced, and I think that this is not good for anyone in the long term. However, it should also be pointed out that the measures that affect local governments are largely implemented by means of solutions that endanger local people, Hungarian households, rather than local authorities. In the end, therefore, they take revenge not on the municipalities or even on the opposition parties by reducing the resources of the settlements, but on the Hungarian households, where, by the way, believe me, my fellow Members, there is also a pro-government voter, just as there is a opposition voter. This sarc policy has nothing to do with crisis management, nothing to do with solidarity. It is about the fact that the government is simply unable to bear the fact that there are independent municipalities operating, and that they could do so since 2019, so that the government will take note of this. And crisis management, believe me, cannot succeed in bleeding out the municipalities. Citizens who are in trouble are the first to knock on the doors of the municipalities. Of course, because physical proximity is there. They can be found as soon as businesses do. That is why all governments around the world support local governments. We see what happened in Austria and how and how the municipalities were supported, because this is necessary. Unfortunately, Hungary's Government is now part of the dwarf minority that goes against the world's prevailing trends. That is precisely why the MSZP has made and I am making my amendments which have been made for years, which, by the way, I hope that they will find acceptance now on the part of the pro-government side, because it is now perhaps more important and more important than anything else. I am making my amendments because it is clear exactly how local authorities have been decommissioned since 2014 either by taking funds or by redeploying tasks. And the point of my amendment proposal is that the car tax should remain entirely in the municipalities, and as a part of the personal income tax, at the time 10 percent of it was in the municipalities, also stay in the settlements, because we need to be able to see it, and the government must also understand that we are not primarily punishing the municipalities by taking away municipal resources, but by taking away the people living in the settlements, and if there is no source for the municipalities, we cannot keep public areas in order, we cannot make improvements, we cannot provide social aid. Allow me to inform you of another amendment. In 2017, the government made a decision to build the southern Tisza bridge in the city of Szeged, which affects not only the city but also the county, both from an economic and cultural point of view. Government decisions have already been taken twice in this regard. Last year, I also presented a proposal to this House to support this proposal. Last year, I also submitted a budget amendment to ensure that at least the preparatory work was carried out. This is what I am doing now: I ask the government to support the preparation work in the amount of HUF 2 billion. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-06-12-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Barcza. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-11	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. In the context of the budgetary debate, I would like to comment on tourism and the development of priority tourism areas. We must start from the point of view, and I believe and believe that successful tourism can only be built if we follow the line that tourism is a form of patriotism, and we look proudly and positively at the future and the opportunities of our country. It is important to say that tourism is one of the engines of the economy and that ensuring sustainable and competitive growth must be the goal of everyone without partying. But first of all, we need to see how the tourist figures have evolved over the past few years. The performance of Hungarian tourism has continuously increased since 2010. The number of guests increased by more than one and a half times, and the revenues of the accommodations doubled. The number of guests could reach 12.8 million, and the number of guest nights was close to 31,3 million. Accommodation revenues increased by 9.2 percent, and total revenues exceeded HUF 550 billion. Tourism and catering account for almost 11 percent of GDP and over 400 thousand people work in this sector. But life has proved in recent months, over the past six months, that tourism is not only a peace industry, as we all know, but also a health industry. I will discuss this in detail in the second part of my speech. [[8.50]] The strategy for the development of tourism sets out the objectives that the Hungarian Government has set for tourism by 2030, and I think and see that the budget of 2021 can provide for this. I would like to highlight one of the most important measures in recent decades that the government has reduced the VAT rate for commercial accommodations from 18 percent to 5 percent, which is a very significant result, greatly increasing competitiveness, and almost weeks later the coronal virus has arrived, but in the long term this reduction will ensure the sector's competitiveness. In the new budget, budget 21, there are several areas that provide significant resources for the development of tourism. Transport development is one of the most important areas. We know that accessibility in tourism is crucial for both domestic and foreign tourists and guests. We know that among the three most important aspects of the decision, where a person travels, what is the accessibility, which is even more outstanding in the case of domestic tourism, is a top priority, and the programme in Hungary continues to include county-righted cities and major national borders in the motorway network. The development amounts of the modern city programmes and the Hungarian village program will not be reduced. In many cases, these developments are basic infrastructure improvements, which are very important for tourism, but in many cases in cities are primarily experiential and attraction improvements, the renovation of emblematic buildings, the renewal of streets and spaces that are also decisive from a tourist point of view. It is important to say that tourism areas have been designated in Hungary, and the Hungarian Tourism Agency, together with the government, has set the goal of developing tourism not in the direction of point-like developments, but in the direction of development at destination level in Hungary. In addition to this orientation, the budget of 21 contains resources, as it serves as a kind of standard. It is important to say that, while in the previous period, I am thinking here that, 15-20 years ago, point-like developments in tourism development were emphasized, now the destination-level approach is a much more effective approach. The entire receiving area is complexly examined by the Hungarian government, and for certain development needs, if they do not fall into a tourist receiving area where the conditions for tourist reception are given and positive in all respects both domestic and international, they can still be supported, but overall the need for this development is examined at regional level by the complexity of similar and other attractions. In Hungary, the priority tourist areas, as we know, are Balaton, Lake Fertő, Danube bend, Debrecen, Hajdúszoboszló, Hortobágy and Lake Tisza, Tisza, Nyírség, and there are several ideas for their expansion. It is important to say that the new budget also includes the development resources for the Kisfaludy accommodation development programme. It's going on. This is Hungary's largest accommodation development programme in recent decades, and now, in the context of the virus situation, the smallest hosts, private accommodations and other accommodation guests can receive one million HUF per room in a very simplified, very fast and very effective tender form. I trust that this program will provide support for everyone applying for it. The framework for this is also available in the new budget. It is also important to continue beach development and experience park development. Allow me to illustrate the objectives and ideas of the new budget with some examples in the constituency. I am the individual parliamentary representative of Sopron and his region, our constituency has a natural geographically excellent talent, and now also from a transport point of view, since the isolation of the Iron Curtain has ceased. We have values and inheritances like the Széchenyi Heritage in Nagycen, like the Esterházy Heritage in Fertőd, Sopron, the city of loyalty and freedom. It was just the anniversary of Trianon, the referendum in Sopron was the only one that allowed and kept the serious territorial revision of Trianon on a permanent basis, since the city and the settlements in the area decided that they wanted to belong to Hungary. In 1989, with the pan-European picnic, Sopron also proved to be a city of freedom, as it contributed greatly to the reunification of Europe. With the construction of the M85 road, which is purely domestic government with HUF 300 billion in support, the city is connected to both the domestic and international road network. The development of the Modern Cities programme, thus the renewal of the downtown facades, streets and spaces, and the renovation of its villas, stimulate the downtown. The various attraction and experience elements will also take place both on the Fertő beach and in the city. We can think of the Cave Theatre or the wonderful values of the Fertő Beach. I would like to point out that Hungary's largest tourist investment, the renewal of Lake Fertő, is subject to government regulations. This is a very complex and complicated development. I think that, as the Hungarian government appreciates and prides its neighbours, we should be proud of it, not with envy, but with pride of seeing how well the Austrian side of Lake Fertő has built. In Hungary, based on the geographical features, this can only be done in one place, so that a real, more serious beach and leisure centre can be built, and this is Fertőrákos. This is what the plans are for, and if this development is implemented and we are on the road to implementation, a recreational eco- and leisure centre will be created, with port, beach development, catering development, which will be marketable not only in Hungary but also internationally, and we can demonstrate the wonderful values of our lake. However, the development will also address current architectural and environmental concerns and problems. It is very regrettable that a number of people here in this House have already spoken against this development. We can ask whether they represent domestic or foreign interests, if that is what we are talking about. There are also bicycle developments in our area, which are very important nationwide, and there is also wine and gastronomic development. In a national outlook, it must be said that, despite the coronal virus epidemic, Budapest's dynamism is definitely the driving sector of tourism, and this must be continued. The ever-increasing supply of Lake Balaton is also a driving sector and there are several priority areas on which this can be said. I would add that Hungary, the development of Hungarian tourism, has to count on the scientific work of the tourism profession, researchers and teachers in all respects, which can underpin the development, the tourist directions and strategies that the Hungarian government has to follow. There are a lot of well-known research workshops. I could highlight the tourist research workshop of the University of Pécs, but also the Budapest Economic College, the Kodolányi János College, the Corvinus University of Budapest, or, if we look at the countryside, the research workshop of the Savaria University Centre, the University of Sopron, Győr, Szeged or Veszprém, which all provides a base for the tourism sector, which I think is very important. More excellent journals, we can think of the Tourism Bulletin here, or what researchers publish in the Tourism and Rural Development Studies, which we can take into account. Finally, I must address the effects of the corona virus in relation to the budget. As I said, the tourism profession is extremely unstable when there is a war, international or health problem, as we have seen in Hungary, because in a few days tourism in Hungary is very serious. The good news is that now we're going out of the crisis, we're coming out, and we're starting to restart tourism. I would particularly like to thank the Hungarian Government for providing the resources needed to reduce the losses of the tourism sector in the context of crisis management and to help start businesses in the sector. Let us not forget that there was a significant credit moratorium, various contributions reductions, the increase in the SZÉP card and the credit opportunities aimed at keeping jobs. Overall, I think and see that the numbers of the budget for 2021 provide tourism with the budget lines and resources necessary to achieve the very impressive targets set for 2030, and I therefore urge all my fellow Members to support this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.00]]
u2020-06-12-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-12-13	Dear House, Let us take a look at the types of opportunities this budget offers in the human sector, education, health, social policy, the perspective it offers to Hungarian citizens and what we propose instead of the budgetary logic that you follow. What's up? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that neither of us doubts that the greatest burden of protection in relation to the corona virus epidemic was borne by the large public human systems, health care, education, social institutions. They have had the greatest burden in this crisis, in this extremely serious situation. The workers there have made the greatest sacrifice to protect the country from this threat, but the epidemic has also shown what the weaknesses of these systems are. We've seen the strength. The strength is those professionals, those who work there, who have done their part in the epidemiological defense in a very self-sacrifice, with great skill and enormous burden. But it also appeared that the institutional system, funding, asset supply and infrastructure were not in good condition. When we say that this is a budget of cowardice, we are talking about the fact that the government clearly has no intention of facing this situation. There is no reason to face the situation that education has remained operational because a significant part of the teachers and a very significant part of the parents have kept this system working, with tremendous efforts and great creativity, and this was necessary because in recent years it has broken apart in favour of Hungarian education and, in particular, under the direction of Hungarian education, XXI. Company. This budget is weak, this government is weak, unable to meet the challenges that they are otherwise facing everywhere in the field of education. It is not able, nor does it fund, in this budget, the digitalisation of education, not just newer and newer government commissioners and newer programmes left on paper, but also, indeed, to have high-quality digital teaching materials, tools in schools and tools for teachers and students. In 2010, we left you with an entire education laptop program inherited along with financing ideas that you threw into the trash. If this had been accomplished, all students and teachers would have had laptops prepared for digital educational tools that could have been used by the time of the crisis. But you are weak enough to find this kind of challenge, address it, just as you are unable to face the growing inequalities in education. What are you doing in this budget? A raise under inflation will be put on the whole of education; a very modest wage increase will be promised to teachers, we do not know what will happen; and nothing will be done in this budget in order to make education more modern and efficient in its content, methods and tools. The situation is similar in the field of health. We all know, we see the conditions in Hungarian health care. We experience how much to wait for a hospital procedure; we experience patients having to take medicines, food or toilet paper to hospitals. They experience the conditions under which patients wait; they experience the conditions under which doctors, nurses, and other health workers work. In this budget, there are only enough increases in the area of health to sustain this kind of operation. But in fact, in recent years, we have seen a steady increase in the gap between the two major sectors of health, if you can say so, a two-speed healthcare. There is a health care that the average people have access to, the Hungarian citizens have access to, and which is paid very hard to maintain in the context of social security contributions, but this health care works at a lower level every year and provides a worse service. And there is a private health that is available to the wealthy, which is developing nicely, where there is really high-quality healthcare, but is just out of reach for ordinary people. The government is weak enough to face this challenge. It is weak to find the means to reduce this inequality in health care. Let me be clear: it is possible to bind health workers to a legal clot, as you have done, forbidding them to leave. You can now lose people who have worked in Hungary, if you like it, out of love and professionalism, while earning the money with their foreign jobs to make a living, you can make sure that these people can't do it now. But in a few months' time, the borders will open, and those who have experienced how you treat Hungarian health workers will go abroad in more numbers than ever. It's unsustainable! There is a growing shortage of teachers in education, fewer and fewer specialized teachers, and more and more schools report that it is a problem to keep the classes professionally. Health care also has a continuous shortage of specialists, few nurses, few nurses, few doctors. I have to tell you that a government that faces the situation radically touches the wages of civil servants in such a situation will radically raise it. Instead of throwing people who work for the whole society out of the civil servant ship and abolishing their civil servant immunity, instead, a responsible government in this situation would seek to make the career of civil servants more attractive to make it more attractive to work in health care, education or the social field. You can ask yourself that it's okay, what we propose, what the opposition's offer, what budget we imagine, and what budget the Democratic Coalition envisages. Let me start by saying what the opposition agrees with, because we have selected some very important areas that we think we should act together on. The opposition parties tabled four amendments together yesterday in order to remedy at least four very serious problems by means of the budgetary amendment. The first of these concerns what I was just talking about. We propose that we introduce a very significant health wage increase, not a cosmetic change that you propose every year, as proposed by the Hungarian Medical Chamber, but a substantial, large-scale health wage increase. To cover this, we propose to put 300 billion HUF in the budget. Our second proposal is to follow the example of countries that have understood the role of local authorities in a time when there are growing social problems, when there are health threats, when many Hungarian families have difficult lives, and in such a situation, the role of municipalities is of paramount importance. And, for example, in Germany, but also in other countries, they do not take away from local governments, but on the contrary, they are given the resources to meet these challenges so that they can carry out more tasks. We therefore propose, together, that we remove the two tributes that you want to put on the hands of the local authorities: to eliminate the increase in the solidarity tax and to eliminate the withdrawal of the vehicle tax from the state budget. These are two sources that if we leave them in the municipalities, they can continue to perform their duties in a high quality manner. I have to add, of course we all know that some of the municipalities are oppositionists and others are pro-government, so politically this is also a neutral proposal. Another issue is that you are doing the opposite, because you do not like the fact that there are opposition authorities, you are pushing out all the municipalities, including the government governments. In essence, Hungarian citizens are being punished for not voting everywhere as you would have liked. [[9.10]] Our third proposal is that in a situation where there are far more unemployed than in the past, when the balloons that you have blown over the past few years about full employment and a million jobs, when economic reality has come up against the beautiful dreams that you have declared in this area, in this situation, let us ensure unemployment benefits that allow these people to stay on their feet, so that these families can stay on their feet. Please understand, it can be said that you give us jobs and not aid. But they don't give you jobs or benefits. What you're offering is maximum community service and the possibility of joining the army. This is not a solution for most families, it is not a solution. Understand, I would like to ask that if we do not now help these people, who have lost their jobs without their own fault, and who, clearly, will not be able to get a job for many months, then, even if we do not help them now, if we do not give support to the families to stay on their feet, to preserve their homes, to maintain their lives, to keep their energy to look for a job, so that these families do not go down, these families do not go down, these people will cost us much more later to get them back to work, or to fix what is going down in these families in this very difficult situation. It's not just a question of humanity, of course, but I don't really refer to humanity with you. This is also sound economic rationality! It is much cheaper for society to keep people in the labour market than it is to fix the damage caused by total poverty. Our fourth proposal concerns pensions. It is a shame that Hungary still has retirement pensions below HUF 30 000 as minimum pensions. We therefore propose that we at least increase minimum pensions, so that we can help the most difficult pensioners. We also have proposals tabled by the Democratic Coalition in addition to the proposals of opposition parties. I'd like to tell you some of these, too, in this area. Perhaps our first proposal will be easy to understand. We propose that there should also be a noticeable wage increase in the areas of education and the social sector. The wages in the social field are quite dramatic. Do you brag about how much wages have increased in the social field, but do you not add that you know why wages in the social sector are increasing in the last ten years? Because most of the workers there earn minimum wage, and the minimum wage increase increases their wages. It's not that they get any respect for their work. It is simply that they earn so little that the minimum wage already affects most of the workers in the sector. And in the field of education, there is a great injustice that needs to be corrected. When you introduced the course of life and put a series of burdens on teachers, among other things, an extra number of hours and a series of administrative burdens, which I think are unnecessary, it also meant that you promised that there would be a guaranteed, value-proof wage-raise system that would be linked to the minimum wage. They broke that promise exactly after a year. Today, the teacher's loss due to this measure is an average of approximately 100 thousand forints per month. That's how much they cut the teachers off. We do not propose that we give this back immediately, because it would be a very heavy burden to put in place such a lack of time in budgetary terms. But a 35 percent wage increase in education from September would be a meaningful message for teachers that their work is important; it would be a meaningful message that we know that the state owes them and that it would give them a chance to finally be young people who will choose the teaching career. You have to understand, you won't be a teacher in education if you continue like this. He won't be a teacher! They're constantly devaluing the teacher's orbit, constantly devaluing the teacher's payments! As a result, young people today do not choose this career. The teachers are disappearing. Half and a third of the schools are missing one or more teachers. It's untenable! Our education will be ruined, ladies and gentlemen. We also recommend that we double the family allowance. They haven't touched this family support in ten years. Congressman Nacsa has discussed family support very long today, and it is right to have family support and to increase family support. But I would like to ask why they do not increase the benefit that every Hungarian child receives, which reaches everyone. Why don't you raise this allowance? Aren't all children important? Are there any important children and non-important children in your eyes? Cowards to face the number of children living in poverty in Hungary, for whom doubling the family allowance would be a significant help? Why won't they help the poor children? In the area of education, we also propose to eliminate the injustice that gives children attending church schools far more money for operating aid than for children attending public schools. All children are the same to us, which is why we consider it fair to have the same support for church and public schools; we have also tabled an amendment to this in the budget. We also recommend that the preparatory work be started to transform the system of bills and utility bills. We believe that it is essential to reduce energy poverty, that at least the minimum amount of electricity, water, gas is available to all our compatriots, and that there should be a minimum free regime limit. And indeed, of course, the cost of this must be paid by someone. We think that this should be paid by the large consumers, so let us transform the system of fees so that those who consume a lot, who heat their pool, pay a little more, so that the poorest pay a little less. We think it's a solidarity proposal. We are now proposing that the state should start preparing for this kind of work. Finally, I would like to make one more proposal. We also propose doubling the equity pension framework. This also helps the poorest pensioners. And Congressman Nacsa rightly draws attention to the fact that budget proposals can only be made responsibly. Although the budget reserve has not been used responsibly in recent years or even during the epidemic, because if it had been used responsibly, it would not have been necessary for the self-governments, universities, the public sector to suffer when there is a problem, but we can see what you need the reserve for. For example, there is always money for sports subsidies, there is always money for cross-border subsidies, or there is always money for church support from this reserve. Once again, when it was needed for health or economic purposes, this money was taken from municipalities and universities and from many other places, from the public sector. But where do we suggest we get a source? We propose to reshape the structure of the budget. Let's decide what's important. We think it's about health, social policy, education. If you're not cowards, then face the fact that you need money here. And what can you let go of? Paks II can be released; the propaganda industry can be released as it is, all of it; it can be released from the lying government media, its support can be abolished; the money can be taken from the Budapest-Belgrade Chinese superrail; or the money can be taken from the arms, from the gigantic amount of money that you intend to buy weapons and develop armies. Because health and education are more important today than arms, honourable Members. Finally, I would like to say a few more words about two, personally kind, favorite amendments that I submitted. There are two railway stations in Budapest, Kőbánya-Kispest and Kőbánya lower, which are very busy. For example, in Kőbánya-Kispest there are 3.1 million passengers per year, and this is not only an important transfer point for people living in the area, but also for those living in the agglomeration. At the same time, MÁV has been promising, planning, painting these stations for years. A complete renewal and reconstruction is required for both stations. It is quite absurd that Kőbánya-Kispesten has built the shopping mall with the new BKV terminal, and when you cross the overpass from one building to another, you suddenly go back at least 50 years, but rather 100 years, when you cross the railway station. [[9.20]] This is also extremely embarrassing for the city and extremely unpleasant for the country. Let me add that when the airport railway is built, which we always think about, is also one of the plans that never happened, this station will also be an important station, and if we do not know yet, then it will probably also be Kőbánya-bottom, so from this point of view, from a tourist point of view, just to join my departed fellow Member, it is of great importance that these stations will be in what condition. Finally, I also propose that the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor cultural house, its maiden name Pataky cultural house, should be refurbished in this budget. This is a very important, iconic building for the capital, and it is also extremely important for the people of Kőbánya. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-12-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker on behalf of the Government is Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató used rather strong expressions:, the budget for cowardice,, facing up to it. No wonder I heard those words, these sentences the day before, but at the same time a sentence struck my ear. In the education department, he said that an excellent laptop program was inherited in 2010. Well, that's when I decided to press a button. You may have left an excellent laptop program in 2010, but, Congressman, you're talking about facing up, so please face it, in addition to the laptop program, you've left a complete financial failure. I am not saying this, which was said by the pre-2010 government when it turned to the IMF and the European Commission for lack of borrowing. You have reduced the wages of public sector workers. They left behind a situation after which, back in 2010, credit rating agencies suggested that we reduce public sector wages. That was the case, and I was personally suggested after 2010. The question was not whether or not we could finance a laptop, but the question was whether, after the wage cuts that you have made, you should make further wage cuts or not. You know exactly what we were up against, what suggestions we received. The government chose a different economic policy than the one you took before 2010. We said that we would not reduce wages, that we would start bearing other burdens, and that we were still in the excessive deficit procedure since 2004 we were the only country to have been in excessive deficit procedures all the time since its accession because of our deficit and debt levels when we started raising wages in health care and education. Mr. Congressman, why don't you just face it when you're making strong wordings? Forgive me if I've been more intense, I'm trying to be factual. Let me, however, respond to what the Member has said in relation to education about the tasks in relation to digitalisation migration education. We certainly have tasks, but in the epidemiological situation, the Hungarian education system was able to switch to digital education. The Member said that education expenditure does not reach inflation, if I remember correctly what he said. Mr President, Mr President, you have not studied the draft budget law for next year before your speech, because if you had done so, you will see that the overall expenditure on education will increase by 4 percent in 2021, and if we look back in 2010, this cumulative increase will be 54 percent. The health situation. I will tell you myself that we have a number of tasks ahead of us, everyone would be pleased if wages were to rise dynamically, investments by the institutions, and I would add that we could do so in a responsible way by not living up to the years ahead, not by putting this at the expense of deficits and debt, but in the way that the performance of the economy allows us to do so. I can report that, in recent years, the Hungarian economy has, forgive me, but in contrast to the period before 2010, increased significantly above the EU average, which is why we had the opportunity to fix public finances first and then raise wages. And I can tell you that there have been substantial wage increases in the field of education, as well as in the field of health, which again, let me say that you have not voted in fact. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] In health pay increases, it is worth seeing that there have been wage increases in different areas since 2012. I'm not going to list all the measures, just the last ones, let me mention them. As regards the workers and women in charge of the basic salary for 2018, there was an increase of 8 per cent from 1 July 2019, of 14 per cent from 1 January 2020, of 14 per cent from 1 November 2020 even in the current situation, of an epidemic caused by the coronal virus, and of 20 per cent of the wage increase, and of a further 30 per cent increase from 1 January 2022. This already applies to the pay level in 2018, and before that, the workers had a substantial wage increase. It is also due to this that healthcare expenditure will increase by 77 percent by 2021, if the Parliament adopts the Government's proposal. Overall health expenditure growth from 2020 to 2021 is 8 percent. As regards the whole wage level, we talked about the social area and other areas as well. Let me say, again, that, in line with economic growth in all sectors, wage increases are being made in line with the country's capacity to bear burdens, and in the social sector there was also a 6 per cent wage increase this year. I would warn everyone against raising wages above our capacity to bear burdens. It may seem that success can be achieved in the short term, but there is a serious cost. I do not want to scare you with insolvency now, as was the situation ten years ago, because, thank God, we can successfully sell our sovereign debt with a low return, but I have to say, if we go off this path, then all of us taxpayers could easily increase our burden on public debt by a hundred billion. I would also like to remind you of what was left behind in 2010. The financing burden on our public debt was well above 4% of GDP. Now we have about half of this, which is nominally 1000 billion forints. Well, Congressman, that's worth considering. Finally, pensions. There's a time series behind us, we know what happened in the last ten years, and what happened in the previous period. The budget proposal for 2021 before you is about maintaining the real value of pensions, about trusting that the Hungarian economy will be able to grow more than 3.5 percent, and in this case it will be possible to pay the pension premium and rebuild the 13th month pension. Of course, in the long term, we can maintain the stability of public finances as a whole, and we can meet expenditure if our economic growth is strong, and we need the support of businesses to do so. This is also the focus of the 2021 budget proposal, which is why we call it the budget for economic protection. If we are successful in protecting the economy, if we can preserve jobs and create jobs that have been destroyed, then we will have a good hope that we can expect additional expenditure in the areas you mentioned not only in 2021 but also in the period that follows. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the speeches. Mr István Hollik is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! I'd like to pick up where Secretary of State left off. I would be able to respond to a lot of what our fellow Member Arató said, but I will do it only for a few. If I understand this correctly, Mr President, he thinks that he should be squeezed in a crisis and even told me where to squeeze, where to take it from. He says it should not be so much for sport, that it should not be so much for the support of Hungarians across the border, and that the churches should not be given such support. [[Gergely Harvesto: I didn't say that, but...]] I don't know...
u2020-06-12-18	[[It's ringing.]] Congressman!
u2020-06-12-19	... somehow I think of the story that historians are increasingly questioning, but in any case, it is a very fitting story that when World War II had a budget debate in England, they suggested to Churchill, the then prime minister, that he withdraw the support of culture, and that's what Churchill said that we were fighting for. [[9.30]] So if we've withdrawn funding from sports, from Hungarians across the border, from the churches, then why are we doing all this? I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Harvester, that if he had said that all children were equally important to him, the government, led by your party president, would not otherwise have given constitutionally less to church schools, but would have paid for what was due to church schools. So, in this regard, your proposal is not new, but when you governed, you did the same thing: you took what was due to them, in violation of the law. The Constitutional Court has also ordered you to pay for this and has acknowledged that you have paid less to church schools. Indeed, as Minister of State Banai has said, if you have already spoken about confrontation, I think that we cannot do this without looking at the last 15 years and looking at the budgets that have responded to a certain type of crisis. For the past 15 years, we have found two such budgets. One of the budgets has responded to the global economic crisis in 2008 and we now have the 2021 budget, which responds to the economic crisis caused by the corona virus. Obviously, the point of what I have to say is that the two crises are very different. Let us see how we have come to these two crises. The 2008 crisis reached a crappy Hungarian state, which couldn't actually do anything anymore. But the fact that he couldn't do anything was your responsibility. After all, in many cases you are saying that Hungary's catch-up is not fast enough for the European Union, just, my honourable fellow Member, the fact is that Hungary was the only country that did not come close to the average level of development of the European Union between 2002 and 2007, i.e. in the period prior to the global economic crisis. For example, in 2007 the Gyurcsány government was able to do the feat that Hungary's economic growth was 1 percent that the average economic growth of the European Union was 3 percent. So, despite the fact that it is more difficult to grow from a higher level of development, the more developed, the richer West has been able to grow much faster in the period of economic activity than Hungary, who has trotted by 1 percent, and I do not want to compare it with the countries in the region, as you do very often, because the countries in the region have just passed by Hungary. It is also worth adding that besides the fact that Hungarian economic policy was not able to help Hungarian businesses at the time, they encouraged economic growth, and they also owed the country a debt, as fiscal policy was extremely irresponsible, there was not a single year when it managed to reduce the budget to less than 3 percent. It also turned out that at that time, perhaps many people still remember that there were several years when they found out that they were not telling the truth about the budget deficit. So you knew very well that the deficit would be much greater than what you said when you adopted the budget law, and you already knew that. So the global economic crisis reached Hungary at the end of 2008. How did you manage the crisis then? This is reflected in the 2009 budget. What did you do? The fundamental point of your crisis management policy is that they are trying to increase the revenue of the state somehow by putting more and more burdens on the shoulders of businesses and people. This is your crisis management policy, which is what you have done; as opposed to us, who are trying to help people in such a crisis, and we are not putting a burden on businesses, but rather reducing their burden. You have taken away the 13th month pension in your crisis management budget, as Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned, reduced the wages of civil servants and raised taxes. Of course, they were able to introduce innovative measures to tax goods, incomes, and superbruttos, which the worker never received in life. Thus, the employer's burden was also involved and, taxing it, even more taxed on the Hungarian people's necks. I'm not even talking about the fact that family allowances were abolished before 2009, so when there was no problem, it was already stopped. The price of electricity and gas was constantly raised. So, overall, it can be said that you have brought new restrictions in a crisis situation, and that was not enough, or more precisely, the cost of getting money from the IMF or the European Commission. To sum up, the left-wing Gyurcsány, the Bajnai governments in the crisis did not help people, but put extra burdens on the shoulders of people and businesses, took on IMF loans and indebted the country with undisciplined public finances and fiscal policies. In 2010, the government debt increased by more than 25 per cent compared to 2002. Obviously, their harmful activities did not spare workers: unemployment reached 12% by the end of the economic crisis, so during your governance, you were 200,000 more unemployed than before. I wish I could say that they watched it with their hands, but this is not the case, as I said, but they have made it worse, because they have taken a month's wages from public employees, health workers, and they have doubled the price of residential electricity and three times the price of gas, strangling vulnerable people who are already in a very difficult situation. Although today the opposite is heard, you wanted it, and you didn't just want it, they also sent the Hungarian health care to the ground, you were the ones who broke off 16,000 beds and sent away 6,000 health workers, and in health care they raised a debt of HUF 650 billion. So your crisis management was based on austerity. It is important to recall this, because we have the draft budget for 2021, which clearly wants to address this crisis not caused by us, but caused by the coronal virus epidemic, by helping businesses and people, and, overall, the government is spending HUF 5555 billion on economic protection and protection against the epidemic. Exactly what that means, it's worth going through quickly. Excuse me, I would like to recall one more thing to my fellow Member, Mr Arató, that I have just found out what the thinkers associated with you thought about your crisis management. This is what Zsuzsa Ferge said in 2008 about your crisis management budget. Hungary was the only state that suffered a crisis, which didn't, at all, cross a single line of matches in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. We do not say that Ferge Zsuzsa, pushing your chariot, claimed this in 2008. This can be said of your crisis management budget. On the other hand, as I said, the budget before us is a responsible farm. If we look at the number of corners of the budget, we can see that, even in this difficult situation, this year or next year, the government does not expect that the budget deficit will increase to more than 3 per cent, but will remain below it. [[9.40]] In addition, we will do everything we can to ensure that as many jobs as the virus destroys, as many new jobs are created, and that Hungary can return to economic growth as soon as possible. The government spent 590 billion forints on the control of the epidemic this year, and next year, as I said, the Economic Protection Fund and the Anti-CDC Fund have a total of 5555 billion forints. But how this budget helps businesses and what processes continue in 2021 is also worth looking at. The government has agreed with employers, businesses, because we base our economic policy and our entire policy on dialogue and cooperation, and according to agreements with entrepreneurs, the social contribution tax is constantly falling; this year, even in the epidemic situation, the social contribution tax will decrease from 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent from 1 July. This also takes a burden off the shoulders of businesses. The rate of the small company tax continues to decrease further, and next year the rate of the kiva will decrease to 11 percent. There are nearly 50,000 such taxpayers, and they are affected. The protection of families remains a priority, since families are our first priority. Indeed, compared to what my fellow Member Nacsa said, in 2010, socialist governments spent less than a thousand billion forints on supporting families, this has already doubled; and we are at the forefront of Europe in supporting families, with more than 4.5 percent of GDP being used to support families. And, of course, family policy is good when it is predictable, and therefore families do not have to expect families in any crisis to face the fact that some family support will disappear. This is true in Hungary, family policy and family support are predictable, so the support and opportunities that families could have had before will continue to be available. I am thinking of the tax exemption for mothers with four children, and I could also mention the various family allowances and home-building programmes. More has been said about local governments today. However, I think there is a difference between the opposition and the ruling parties in the approach that they think that there are people from the effects of the crisis, there are some who can withdraw; so, of course, everyone should handle the crisis, but not the local government, so everyone else should bear the burden, but otherwise we should not. So the fact is that we can be successful in the fight against the epidemic and also in dealing with economic aftereffects is that everyone takes their part in the fight against the epidemic and everyone contributes to it. Local governments are not separate entities, they cannot be taken out of the great Hungarian life, they are an integral part of Hungary, so they must also play their part in the crisis management. One thing we want and we have the very important line here is that we must not put a burden on the shoulders of Hungarian people or on the shoulders of businesses, we must help them, but everyone else, the state, the parties, the municipalities, must contribute to the common defence. And while we are talking about the solidarity contribution here, let us add that the solidarity contribution is not taken away by the state, but by the richer municipalities because it is fair to the poorer municipalities. I believe that this, contrary to opposition statements, is not determined on the basis of party political considerations, as the solidarity contribution is otherwise to be paid by several wealthy, rich, multi-industrial government authorities, otherwise with pro-government leadership. The difference is that there are opposition cities that want to make a policy out of this, and there are pro-government cities that are responsible and responsible for mitigating the effects of the epidemic, and they know that this is necessary and they are doing their job the way they should. Education has also been mentioned here today. Mr Arató also spoke about this, so I would like to say to him that, unlike their government, which privatized the Book Publisher, played it for buddies, and, in their time, in the case of a school start, a family had to spend a lot of money on textbooks, and the textbook supply became completely free this year, so from 2021 onwards, families do not have to spend any more on it. All in all, I can therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget for 2021 is about protecting the economy; it is about how to fight effectively against the effects of the epidemic, but I think that next year's budget will give us the opportunity to get out of this crisis, in which we are outside ourselves, and not only we, but also the whole of Europe, not just the way we got into it, but also, in view of this opportunity, supporting businesses, to get out of this crisis stronger than we have been in this crisis. I believe that the 2021 budget provides a very secure basis for this, and that is why we will, which is why KDNP will support this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Csárdi Antal from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin by responding to the words of the Secretary of State and my fellow Member Hollik. Mr Secretary of State said that during the epidemic, we switched to digital education. Mr State Secretary, in addition to admitting that in many schools this has been done relatively smoothly, in good quality, beyond what I believe is still a challenge in the transition to digital education, I would be pleased if we put more emphasis on this than we are at present. An example of how the transition to digital education took place is bad examples. It's a material cast in Crete right here on my phone. [[He shows up his cell phone.]] This, let's just say, came from within the family. I'll read it to you. [[He reads it in a raised voice.]] Read and interpret the two developed examples on the 187th page of the textbook. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Relax. Dr. Attila Tilki: Was there a voice?]] Page 187, pages 16, 17, to be completed in a notebook. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Were they shouting by e-mail?]] Have a good day. I'm sorry, I'm No address, no release of the material, the junior child alone reads and interprets the curriculum in mathematics. This isn't digital education. And I do not want to say that this is a national average, and I would just like to draw attention to this example that there is something that we and the schools have to do in this regard. [[9.50]] What is more important, however, is that my fellow Member Hollik was trying to point out in his speech that all children are equal. Now, I think that the representative of KDNP should approach this issue with a little more humility, because if all children are equal, then we can agree, even with KDNP where appropriate, that the same norm should be given to ecclesiastical educational institutions and state-reserved educational institutions. On the other hand, today, yesterday and next year we will find that ecclesiastical institutions receive a higher standard from the state than state-reserved institutions. I think that we could have a common goal, where appropriate, not to reduce the church reserve, but to raise the norm of state-owned schools to the same level as those of ecclesiastical reservations. I think that children who go to public school are worth as much as those who go to church school. I do not think that there should be a debate in this House. What is much more saddened is that my fellow Member Hollik is infinitely uninformed about the work done by the municipalities during the epidemic. My fellow Member Hollik may be familiar with the 1st Constituencies of Budapest, he could have watched it, or even knew that all four districts in the constituency, starting with the 5th district of pro-government leadership, were the opposition leaders, VIII., IX. And through the 1st district, they all took their part in the defense. [[István Hollik: I didn't say that!]] It is amazing that, despite this, my fellow Member is making such a statement as if the municipalities had let go of the defence. I would like to remind my fellow Member that VIII, IX and in District I, the municipalities have created grants that have been sent directly to the people, which I believe would have been the responsibility of the State. It wasn't the municipality's job, but they felt their responsibility for the people in the district, and therefore, beyond the fact that they supported the recovery of the economy within their own operational options, for example, through the release of rents, they supported the biggest losers of the economic consequences of the epidemic, the people, the citizens. I am quite outraged when my fellow Member tries to deny these subsidies for political reasons, trying to paint a picture as if this had been different! I would like to remind my fellow Member, Hollik, that all four districts have carried out full and good quality care, including all its costs. All four districts performed impeccably and in good quality the public-field disinfection and all the tasks that had been imposed on them during the outbreak. Let's not pretend that the authorities didn't take their part in the defense. We are talking about the cost of defence tasks, and the government's decisions have also cost the municipalities. The balance of this is what puts the municipalities in a difficult position. But I reject the completely insufferable, circumstantial lie that my fellow Member Hollik has said that the municipalities have not taken their part in the defence to a sufficient degree. I am convinced that the municipalities were in the first place behind health institutions in terms of protection. At the same time, I think that when it comes to the budget, we need to talk about the tax system, the tax system, which, like the budget, shows the relationship between the government and society. I think that I would like to mention two main parts in this regard: the general sales tax and the personal income tax. In particular, in the period that I could describe as the period after the epidemic, the economic impact of the epidemic, I think it would be extremely important to look at society with an open heart and an open mind. If you do so, my fellow members of the Government, it is relatively easy to see that at a single-key tax, although I think I understand the tax logic that has been said so many times in the walls of this House that you would prefer to burden consumption with taxes rather than income, but it would be necessary to alleviate the tax burden on very small and small earners. I would like to point out, and you know it as well as I do that the economic crisis has put hundreds of thousands of families in a situation that I can describe as having a family in an economic crisis. One moment they lost their jobs, lost their income, and now virtually many are forced to try to keep the family alive for small money and underfunded jobs. I think that at least it should be expected that the government will consider the re-introduction of a multi-key tax. I think that... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The tax increase!]] No, tax cuts, Member Nacha. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Allow me to answer directly. I know that you are not subject to house rules, and therefore I am adapting to you; from this I would indicate that this is not a tax increase, but a tax reduction. I think that the low income tax rate should be moved downhill. What I would like to talk about, on the other hand, is the type of consumer taxes you prefer. On consumption-type taxes, we have the painful experience that your social image is drawn as beautifully as if it was drawn by a painter. What we see is that basic food taxes are mostly 27 percent VAT, with a few exceptions, while restaurant services can be used with a 5% tax burden. But the same is true of accommodation services. Here, I'd split this in half. I think that a government cannot afford to make more money on basic foods, because now it is a practice such as a trader or a distributor. The fact is, at the moment, on a kilo of bread, the state gets more revenue than the one who makes bread or the one who sells bread. But that's true of beans, lentils, that's true of fruit, vegetables. Let us see that the availability of these products should be made easier and cheaper. Let's face it, basic foods are not luxury goods. Its consumption cannot be effectively affected by the EU's largest type of consumption tax. It is a matter of responsibility, it is a question of a social picture, honourable Members. I think it is a shocking example that if I go out to the market or go out to do the weekend shopping, and that is true of me, downtown Budapest, and it is true of any small rural settlement, such as Nagybako, in Zala County, that practically in the restaurant, the tax liability is less than a quarter of the tax liability on basic foods. If I spend 30,500 forints on the market before a long weekend in the mall, then I will pay you in VAT, and not just me, but everyone else, from the teacher to the paramedic to the principal, everyone will pay HUF 6,500 for 30,500 forints. If this 30 500 HUF is spent by a six-person family in a restaurant, then his tax burden through general sales tax is 1500 HUF. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You don't think that's fair, do you, to achieve social justice? We see that this injustice can be traced through your administration. You can ask why this is so. I admit, it's a hearty, thoughtful question, but the answer is there. [[10.00]] We were planning to end the session at the beginning of July and to go to the Lake Balaton at the end of July with the family. We started to think, and of course, the stupid politician here is referring to me, starting to see what interest accommodation providers who I can provide accommodation for during the holiday period belong to. I found that, by examining the property conditions of accommodation providers on the shore of Lake Balaton, I could basically provide accommodation through the Lake Balaton or individual, the well-known Zimmer frei, or, if I wanted to do otherwise, I would surely face the property of an oligarch close to the government. Here it becomes clear why the VAT on accommodation services was reduced to 5 percent, so that we could be honest as a result of this decision the price of accommodation services did not decrease by a single forint. In addition, during a great period of time, this is less visible during the epidemic, this service is not even used by Hungarians, but by visiting tourists. They wanted to make it easier for them, but as it would be incomprehensible, I can tell you that you have tried to make life easier for your oligarchs with this tax relief, rather than keeping the tax on basic foods low, which would provide a low tax burden for society as a whole. But the same is the case with restaurant services. It is so true that some of you know that I have an accounting degree, that if you look at the VAT turnover of a restaurant, it is worth knowing that an entity subject to VAT, i.e. a restaurant, has the possibility to refund VAT on the purchased raw material, while the general sales tax on the service is paid, so that the difference is paid. But what does it mean when the raw material of food, with a few exceptions, is taxed by 27 percent? Then the refundable VAT will remain relatively high, then the revenue generated by the payment of the restaurant's bill, there is a 5% VAT, in fact we find that for a four-fold margin, there is no obligation to pay VAT to a restaurant owner. If we look at a significant part of the restaurants in the first district, downtown, we will also find the government connections that I spoke about in connection with Lake Balaton. What you practically did was to remove restaurants from the scope of the VAT law in practice, not in theory, not in law, but in practice from the scope of the VAT obligation. If the production of a meal costs a thousand forints and is sold for 4,000 forints, there will be no obligation to pay VAT to a restaurant. The only thing I have to ask with respect is why a layer of low consumption tax should be supported, whose members can afford to go to a restaurant. Why not the society that includes the rich and the poor who consume basic food? It would not be the natural, completely ordinary thing to keep the VAT burden on basic foods low and make it more accessible to pensioners, who certainly cannot boast in most of them that they have hundreds of thousands of forints of pensions. So I think that we should also do VAT reductions on basic foods in a way that is accessible to pensioners, because a 5% VAT burden on basic foods would do a lot of good for the low-income and would also do good for the higher-income ones. But you didn't! You only want to support those who can use accommodation services and/or use restaurant services. My suggestion, ladies and gentlemen, is to give it a try. Ask the first two retired couples on the left, on the street where they live, when they were last in a restaurant. Ask him when was the last time you were in the store or the market. It will quickly come to light which VAT content should be kept down so that you support the low price of these product products, and unfortunately, at the same time as the impact of the epidemic and the crisis, the price of basic food, vegetables and fruit has increased significantly more than the inflation that you have predicted in the 2021 budget. I think you have a responsibility to how taxes are collected and how, through this, we will fund our public affairs. But I think it doesn't matter who we charge with taxes. There is no more perverse redistribution system in the world, where even through consumption taxes, wealthy citizens are supported by a government at the expense of poorer, low-income citizens in need. That should change. Unfortunately, we know that there is no intention of doing this, because I don't know, but for the first time in many years, we have been negotiating a budget without you opening an amendment to the tax laws. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-06-12-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-12-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, We can say that we have experienced extraordinary times in recent months, and the shadow of the coronal virus epidemic is still here among us, and we did not know a few weeks ago how June 12th would welcome us. The population of Hungary could rightly have expected, and I think that we, parliamentary representatives, who represent the people, so that the government could provide stability in these times of distress and support the population of the country. If we look back over the last few months, we can see that it was the nation states that were able to cope with the epidemic, and it was the nation states that could and could protect their citizens. If we look at Hungary's capacity and efficiency in an international comparison, we can say that Hungary's Government has done very well, because the epidemic has not even occurred, and the economic crisis has also been handled and managed very well, as far as possible. We have the 2021 budget here, despite the fact that we are in the middle of 2020, but it is very important for stability to be able to plan and to see how the future is going to turn out, despite the fact that preparing for an epidemic is still an important task and must be on the defence agenda, as we will have to adapt to the tasks ahead. With regard to the budget, it is often said that the figures speak for themselves, and that is true, but it doesn't matter where we look for these numbers, because this budget cannot be seen with the spectacles we have looked at the budget of the previous years, because the situation is not ordinary, it is common, in which this draft was born, the situation is extraordinary. [[10.10]] The budget ahead is the budget for the relaunch of the economy, which will continue this year's economic protection programme, and is also an important element of the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund. We can also say that when we look at our own lives and the lives of our families, that our safety, that every day there is bread on the table, that we know our loved ones safely and in health, is very important. To do so, it is essential that people have jobs. This is also a priority objective for the budget and the government. We also need to value older people and improve the conditions of older people in the next year's budget. We can also see that this year there has been a historic economic rescue package, it can fit in the budget, and this year's budget can ensure that the country's debt shows a downward trend. This is due to the extremely stable budgetary stance of Hungary since 2010. The epidemic has reached a country with a stable budget, and the result of stable budgetary legs and the economic performance of the country, the result of people's diligence and work, is that we have been able to withstand the devastating storm caused by the coronal virus epidemic both in our lives and in the economy. When we talk about the importance of security, it is not only about our lives, health, the safety of our livelihoods, but also about the safety of our everyday lives. As a member of the Defence and Police Committee, I would like to give you a little look-out and insight into next year's budget. It is also our Fundamental Law and it is in our national interest to protect the security of our country. It is important to emphasise that in the next year's budget, the issue of law enforcement and defence does not fall victim to the management of the economic crisis. The resources of both sectors will be increased in the coming year, which is also significant because if we look at the migration reports and take into account, which is the fact that Hungary is on a high-pressure migration route, we can see that the migration situation will not improve and that in the next period we can expect this pressure to occur at our borders. This is why it is important to protect Hungary's borders. The sources of law enforcement are 96 billion forints more resources, thus a 12,6 percent increase in next year's budget, which can also be used to improve the number of law enforcement agencies and to invest in the security of citizens. The National Defence Service 15th, the Counter-Terrorism Center 13th, the police nearly 6th, and the prison executions can be managed by nearly 20 percent more sources in the coming year. I also think it is important to say that expenditure related to the management of mass immigration and expenditure related to the implementation of anti-terrorist measures are included in the budget for the following year. It is true that the budget calculates half a billion forints for the first one, the second for anti-terrorist measures, but this is a flexible amount, which can be exceeded with the government's approval. Flexicurity is an important element of the next year's budget, as the same can be said about the Central Fund for Disease Control, that we will be able to adapt to the tasks we are facing. This is also important because if we take into account that if we allocate too much, too much money for protection, then it can be a barrier to the relaunch of economic development. It is therefore important to strike a healthy balance between defence and the development of the economy. Turning to defence, it can be said that the budget will increase by HUF 162 billion in the coming year, so that some HUF 778 billion will be calculated for defence, of course, as a percentage of GDP, so we will take another step towards the defence expenditure target for NATO member countries, set at 2% of the total national product. This did not reach 1 percent several years ago, and next year this figure will be nominally above 1.6 percent. The share of military development expenditure is already well over 20 percent, so we are exceeding NATO's recommendations. These developments take place within the framework of the programme of defence and force development of Zrínyi 2026, which has to be said to be the largest and most comprehensive defence programme in recent decades. As a result, the Hungarian Defence Forces will become a decisive force in our region, and they will be able to perform not only the security of Hungary and Europe, but also the tasks of NATO alliances. At the heart of this program is the soldier, because we have modern tools and advanced programs in vain if there is no man who operates it. That's why it's important to be able to keep an eye on the man, the soldier. As part of the program, the 2015 M new Hungarian training uniform family is produced, the soldiers are provided with P-07 and P-09 pistols, Scorpion Evo 3 machine guns and Bren 2 machine rifles. It is important to say that most of these tools and weapons are made in Hungary on the basis of a Czech licence, and because we are not only preparing weapons for the Hungarian Defence Service, but also for the delivery of the Czech forces, we have exited the international market for military products, so a new spectrum has opened up for us. In addition to the production of weapons, the re-launch of high-quality powder and ammunition production is also underway in Hungary. If we look back on the last few years, we can see that the air force of the Hungarian forces was in the worst condition, if that is the way to put it, but since then, besides the great improvement of Gripen's weapons, the Mi-17 transporters and Mi-24 combat helicopters, a number of high-value investments have been made. In addition to team carriers, couriers and transporters, as well as training aircraft, Airbus helicopters and advanced anti-aircraft missile guidance systems have also been acquired. It is also important for me to say this because this topic is very topical, because just yesterday the defence sent a farewell to the last Soviet-made An-26 transport plane, and the new purchases are important for maintaining and expanding transport capacity in our country. In the future, it is also expected to be possible to purchase ramped transport and additional training aircraft, so the next year's budget will provide a very good path and opportunity for improvements. In the same way, we can count on the continuation of procurement in the case of the land forces. The start of the acquisition of Leopard tanks, self-propelled guns and armor-piercing weapons is already the fruit of this year, but the multi-modulatory buses and Rába H trucks purchased in the framework of the car procurement programme strengthen the Hungarian industry in addition to the army. In addition, the purchase of persons, freight and transport vehicles is of a thousand magnitude. So I think that we can really improve the state of the Hungarian Defence Corps working for and serving our security in the coming year. But it is not enough to concentrate on defence and military development expenditure, as Hungary must also meet other military obligations arising from federal and international treaties. We also have the right resources for these in the next year's budget, just as we focus and pay attention not only to the security of our country, but also to the security of our immediate neighbours and the stability of the region. [[10.20]] After all, security within our borders can be created or guaranteed, if our environment is safe, so Hungary is very involved in the efforts made to ensure the security of peoples, countries and stability in Central Europe, and we are also involved in the development of important international cooperation on this subject, and will continue to do so in the future. It can be said, therefore, that, despite the difficult times we have had and there is still uncertainty in our lives because of the coronal virus epidemic, we can look forward to the future, because the presentation of stability and budget at the spring session, which the government has been doing every year, provides a good basis for us to be able to plan, what we can plan, the budget figures show that there is something to plan, and I propose to my fellow Members to support this budget proposal with me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The next speaker from the Group of Dialogue is Congressman Bence Tordai, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-12-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Regarding the budget for 2021, Timea Szabó, leader of the Dialogue Group, has already shown in his speech as the lead speaker why the draft of Fidesz is a budget for political revenge, theft and insensitiveness, and has also outlined the proposal of the Dialogue for Hungarian society, what is the green left-wing vision we would like to formulate through our budget modification packages. We green left-wingers know that we need to build a just, safe and future-friendly society, that's what meets people's expectations, and that's what's the key to our country's future success. Accordingly, we believe that investment must be made not in concrete and iron, but in man, social infrastructure and the green light; these are the ones that can guarantee Hungary's future success. This means spending more on social subsystems that guarantee today's security and which are the key to our future success, such as health, education, social care, housing and greening. These areas are proposed to transfer very serious amounts in the 2021 budget. But there is an area that is also highlighted in its importance and in its numerical significance, and that is what I will be talking about, and this is the basic income budget. I think it's clear to everyone now that every year, the Dialogue is the bravest thing to do with budget plans. Every year for five years, we have submitted a budget for the basic income, which ensures that the state guarantees all Hungarians the financial conditions for a decent living. In our 2021 proposal, this means that there can be no adult person in Hungary who has income below HUF 100,000 per month; there cannot be a child in Hungary whose parents, educators and guardians would not receive at least HUF 50,000 per month from the state; and there cannot be a worker who brings home less than HUF 166 250 per month in full employment, since the basic income is not a benefit, but a social benefit that is paid to virtually everyone who lives in this country, which at the same time increases security, safety of life, safety of living and increases low incomes. After all, if we ask people today what the most important problems are, then they bring about uncertainty, low incomes, low pensions and the roaring social injustice that has made it clear to everyone that there is a crippled one, really hundreds of thousands of millions of people under the minimum of existence, and there is a narrow elite that is increasingly connected to the governing parties through personal relations, which has more than tens and hundreds of billions, and which has acquired inaccessible wealth, and, in a significant part, undeservable way. So the basic income would restore this excruciating injustice, in effect remedying the disintegrating society that has put this country in an increasingly tortured state of mind over the past ten years. We see that over the last ten years, funds have been constantly withdrawn from the support of the lower social tithes, and the poorest 40 percent of the country has financed the enrichment of the richest 10 percent. On the one hand, you have reduced the size of the budget, the size of the state, while you are talking about a strong state, the redistribution rate is constantly falling from over 50% to below 43%, we are redistributing less money, we are using less and less together for social goals, for the common good; and within this shrinking budget, there are such harsh reorganizations that benefit the rich, large companies and the oligarchs near Fidesz, they have enjoyed the fruits of the economic growth of the last ten years, and the lower third-third-and-two thirds of society when they pay the price. Now, this must be translated to the contrary, this perverted social policy must finally be replaced by a healthy and just social policy, a social policy that is based on everyone's importance. We don't say things, and we don't think of things that the Minister of the Orbán Government has said that those who have nothing are worth so much. We think that everyone must have something, that XXI cannot be tolerated. In the 20th century, poverty in the middle of Europe. One of the most important tasks of the state is that security of life is guaranteed by translating the constitutional right to life into practical life, and that is what the community of citizens otherwise expects. According to the latest research, the support for the introduction of basic income has already been 80 percent, with two-thirds to three-quarters of these polls. Obviously, the crisis has caused more people to feel insecure, lost their jobs or lost a small or greater share of their income, about half a million people who have been hit by job losses, and about a million people who have lost their earnings in recent months. This is when we really feel that individual people can be as ambitious, hardworking, fortunately vulnerable as they are, and we live in a community, and we have formed states to reduce this vulnerability. Reliance should not only be the subject of political speeches, but should be the social reality of everyday life, and this interdependence must be met and we must assume responsibility. You talk about how every Hungarian is responsible for every Hungarian for translating this basic income into the language of numbers, the language of money. You say that no one will be left alone, and that no one will be left on the side of the road, unfortunately, the reality will bring this rebuttal. But then our common goal is that we really do not abandon anyone and leave no one alone and leave no one in poverty, and we also do not tolerate that the economic model, which is based on the vulnerability and low wage levels of workers, should be the economic model for Hungary, which will continue to be decisive in the future. Basic income is also a very good way to raise low wages. If the worker is not vulnerable, it is not possible to force him to work for just any money, and this would not work against incentives to work, nor would there be a higher job supply at a higher wage level. So, contrary to what Fidesz colleagues say, basic income is apparently not a benefit, since virtually everyone deserves it, or at least everyone except those with high incomes, seven out of ten Hungarians would be in a better position with the introduction of the basic income. About 6.7 million of the 9.7 million Hungarians would receive the basic income proposed by the Dialogue, as it is not only for children, it serves not only as a basic pension for the elderly, it not only provides a kind of income security for inactive people of active age, but it also adds to the average and slightly above average incomes. [[10.30]] Of course, you can ask where the money comes from, but we're gonna prove every year that there's money for this. If we look at how much we are now spending on social protection expenditure in proportion to GDP, then we see that this is 13,3% of GDP in Hungary, in the European Union, on an average of 27 EUs, at 19.2 percent of GDP. 6 percentage points difference, which is HUF 2100 billion in Hungarian GDP, which could be produced as a source of social protection if we went only to the EU average in this case. Otherwise, perhaps even smaller is the basic income budget package that we have just submitted, or at least more modest in terms of additional resources. The scale of the restructuring is close to 9 percent of GDP, it is HUF 3786 billion that we would redistribute, which we would redistribute in a fair way, guaranteeing everyone's safety and financial livelihood, which, by the way, should be the most important purpose of social redistribution. This nearly HUF 3800 billion package is therefore possible through the transfer of large part of existing expenditure and partly through the involvement of new resources, since obviously, if seven million people in Hungary have higher incomes, additional resources will have to be provided. Who would pay for these extra costs? From whom do we expect a higher contribution to public burdens? On the one hand, from the super-rich, the upper tenteen, that is, from Lőrinc Mészáros and his circle of friends and acquaintances, from the relatives, mates and business circles of the Fidesz and KDNP representatives. This covers about the 10,000 people who live in extreme wealth in Hungary today. We expect greater contributions from large companies, as they have been the biggest beneficiaries of the last ten years. In addition to individual government decisions, the largest tax reduction over the last decade, the Fidesz government has supported large companies, giant companies, multinationals and the growing fattening companies of fidesz oligarchs. It was a tax reduction of 10 percentage points, while the income of low-income earners was raised, since in the past, due to the tax credit, small incomes were virtually exempt. So, while poor earners pay more and more taxes, large companies are getting less and less, and we are now at the level of a tax haven. We'd also restore that, and yes, let the big corporations pay more. In addition, there is another area that we would tax more, and that is pollution. Fidesz is already greening in words, unfortunately we still see no sign of this in the field of action, and their credibility in this area is zero, but when Viktor Orbán says that the polluters should pay, we can agree with that. We have said this for more than ten years to pay the polluters, pay the polluters, so we would put a very massive ecotax, a carbon tax, carbon tax, as we like, into a much more sustainable and environmentally future-friendly path for the Hungarian economy. From these sources and from existing sources, which have only been used poorly, the basic income budget can be financed without any problem, without increasing the budget deficit, without increasing the public debt. Social support has it, the financial opportunity has it, and from now on it is the responsibility of policy makers to create basic life security for everyone, to draw closer to a just society, and to build a future-proof economy and society that will protect everyone, for example, in the event of shocks such as a coronal virus epidemic and the economic crises of the future. The introduction of the basic income is obviously a courageous step, I would like to compare it to the establishment of the modern state in Bismarck or the construction of the social democratic welfare states in Hungary, let us say, the introduction of general health insurance, pension insurance, or even maternity and family support systems, the introduction of children, children and family allowances in the '70s is a similar step. No one could have imagined this before, but now we see that society's imagination has simply started in Hungary and globally, they have learned to believe in the basic income, they have learned that it is possible to make such a big, just social transformation, and now only the political representation of this matter is missing. In Hungary, as a green left party, the Dialogue has undertaken this for five years, and we hope that the ever-increasing social pressure will force today's governing parties to do so, or, if not, the new government, which will stand up after 2022, to introduce the basic income or a similar solution that will bring security and justice to Hungarian society. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-12-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me first respond to the speech by Mr Csárdi. He said that the VAT on basic foods is high, that the VAT key system is unfair. In fact, I would like to say that, in recent years, in several steps, the tax rate of pork, poultry, milk, eggs or fish has been reduced by Parliament to 5% on the government's proposal. These proposals were not voted for by the left. With regard to the suggestion made by Congressman Bence Tordai, Mr President, he said that the poorest have been redistributed to the richest budget, Mr President, and that the poor earning workers pay more. My problem, Congressman, is that you didn't support these allegations with facts, and... [[Bence of Turdai: 12,000 HUF/month less... the president bells.]] I hear what you're saying, Congressman. Then allow me to inform you in a factual way about how the lowest salaries, the minimum wage amounts, have evolved. Between 2010 and 2020 the net amount is... Did you ask for the net amount? [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]]
u2020-06-12-28	Congressman, this isn't a dialogue, there's room for dialogue outside the House. This Parliament, you are a notary of Parliament, you should know best what conditions the debate is under. If you can't accept that, then I'm forced to exclude you from the debate, and I don't want to do that, so I'm asking you to try to contain yourself. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-12-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am trying to put it factually, because I believe that the facts are in fact disprove the statements made by the Member, no matter how incisive we look at these facts. Allow me to report on the development of the net minimum wage between 2010 and 20. An employee of the minimum wage without a child experienced a net increase of 77.7 percent. Thanks to the family discount system, depending on how many children a person has, this net increase is the greater the increase in the number of children. If there is one child, the net earnings increase is 94.3%, if there are three children, it is 160 percent. Congressman, these are the facts. Let us consider how much gross income the two persons, the family earner, the father, and the mother need for maximum family benefits in the case of three children. Congressman, this is less than 310,000 forints. Do you know how much the average salary is now? It's over 400,000 forints. [[Bence of Turdai: You know no one believes that!]] After all, I do not believe that these claims are factually true. [[10.40]] As for the basic income, this is an old debate. I think that if at any point, it is important that recovery is achieved as soon as possible because of the economic crisis caused by the corona virus. When's the recovery? If you look at any economic formula, if you talk to, say, Professor Tamás Mellar, you will see that working is one of the key factors in all forms of economic growth. When is economic growth? If there's work to do. If you are now looking for an answer to the situation caused by the economic crisis, one answer is that recovery is when there is work. Basic income does not encourage employment. [[Bence of Turdai: Yes!]] Basic income does not encourage employment. It does not provide the incentive for a person to find his income from work. The alternative of the government is that everyone who wants to work can work, primarily in the competitive sphere. This is why we have launched a number of support programmes to support businesses in which we want to keep jobs or provide support for job creation. Congressman, this has helped the government to employ hundreds of thousands of people. We say that, compared to any aid, it can be called a basic income or something, if someone is working, they can earn more. This is also a step forward for the individual, both financially and in my opinion, because it also gives the individual stamina if his income comes from work and not from some kind of external aid, and this, beyond the individual, is a step forward for the whole of the national economy. If you consider it important to have more resources in the 2021 budget in the areas you have said, and to increase expenditure on education and health in the sectors concerned, then I suggest that you encourage employment and support next year's draft budget law in this spirit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-12-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker was Mr Ritter Imre, Member of the Nationality. Here you go, Congressman. Mr. Congressman will now welcome Parliament in his ethnic language, in German, at the beginning of his speech, or he can start in Hungarian, and he has the opportunity to do both. Here you go.
u2020-06-12-31	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten meine Rede die ich schon in den vorigen Tagen died habe bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T-10710. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen weiter treibei. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to continue today my speech in the last two days at T/10710. on the national aspects of the draft law on the central budget for 2021. Before I begin the substance of my comment today, although we have been in Parliament for six years, allow me to list the 13 indigenous nationalities, whose representatives I can speak to now, namely Bulgarian, Greek, Croatian, Polish, German, Armenian, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian and Ukrainian nationalities. Two days ago, I started my first comment on the bill on the central budget for 2021 by reviewing the situation of the nationalities living in Hungary in 2014 at the beginning of the last cycle, what and how we were able to move forward in the last six years, where we are today, what goals we have, what tasks we have to solve to achieve them. When I prepared my speech today and read through the two days ago, I was pleased to be a little surprised to know that the list of problems at departure was not only more or less covered by the results of the last six years, but I was able to report on points that had not yet been mentioned in the initial problems. For example, the specific national minority supplementary support framework, the situation of local national authorities and their reserved nationality institutions, or even the national minority educator programme. In yesterday's speech, I reported in particular on the 1 billion HUF 100.1 million nationality change request for the 2021 central budget, including all the details of it individually. I sincerely hope that in this year of national cohesion, it is not possible for the government or parliament to not support the proposal of Hungarian nationalities. Yesterday I did not have time to mention it, but I would like to point out that, in view of the health and economic emergency caused by the coronal virus, Hungary's nationalities, on the one hand, we were disciplined to acknowledge that nearly HUF 1 billion of national minority funds in 2020 had been withdrawn and transferred. This resulted in the withdrawal of the NEMZ-KUL 700 million application to support all the 2020 cultural events of 12 nationalities and the NEMZ-TAB 400 million application to support all minority mother tongue student camps in 2020. We didn't like it, but we took it, we took it. Secondly, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, as a committee, did not want to act publicly or be involved in political debate, but all the members of the committee, as private individuals, advocates or representatives, have also helped and helped their own ethnic community and their entire environment, with significant donations and personal work since the beginning of the epidemic. Thirdly, the national needs related to the 2021 budget have been drawn up in a self-reliance manner, with HUF 1.1 billion being the smallest nationality support demand for the seven years of budget billing so far. On this basis, I believe that, as indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, we have a realistic assessment of today's situation and we are taking our part in helping solve the health and economic problems caused by the corona virus, in sharing the burden. In my last two days' speech, I have already indicated that I would like to speak again today in a little bit more detail about the future and to inform this House about the national education programme. Following yesterday's speech, I was pleased to hear the speech by Mr Károly Pánczél, Chairman of the Committee on National Inclusion, who spoke after me, on the draft budget law of 2021 concerning Hungarian nationality across the border, in which he paid particular attention and called the education of Hungarian ethnic teachers across the border, the retention and strengthening of the position of the Hungarian ethnic intellectuals. I fully agree with all the sentences made by the Member. In the same way, it is strategic for nationalities living in Hungary to train and strengthen national minority teachers, and to keep them as a first priority. Within the framework of the national minority educator programme, in 2016 we examined our situation in a comprehensive and complex manner, the goals to be achieved, and on this basis we defined the tasks ahead of us. Four key points have been identified. Firstly, keeping existing ethnic educators on the track, so that they can be better valued. One of the tools for this was the quadruple increase of the minority pedagogue bonus and the inclusion of all ethnic educators in the bonus scheme with the new categories of differentiated education and training in ethnic languages. This has been a complete success over the last three years. At the same time, I would like to report that, following the third increase on 1 January 2020, we have discussed, discussed and dealt with at the highest level of leadership, all disputes arising in relation to the increase in nationality allowances. [[10.50]] These include, for example, the eligibility of part-time workers, the entitlement to the allowance for hours, the entitlement of teachers in the zero grade, the entitlement to the allowance of the deputy directors, the reduced part-time workers or those working with a reduced part-time allowance; and we have established a clear, clear position on all other issues, and this is the case for all maintainers, the Klebelsberg Catholic maintainers , nationality maintainers, regardless of type of school and maintenance, validated through their own system. One month later, we specifically looked into all specific cases of previous complainants. I can tell you that there is not a single nationality institution, as far as I know, in Hungary, in any nationality, where the provision of the nationality allowance would not be uniformly guaranteed to national educators under the law. The other thing that I would like to highlight, which I think is very important, is that during and during the increase in national minority allowances, this may have caused tension, since the four-fold increase will give rise to a substitute for the deputy directors. I also said at the start of the bonus that we would like to get there so that we can finally make a meaningful change in ethnic benefits that will cause tension among educators. I would like to highlight two things from this. One: of course, before the increase on 1 January 2020 we discussed this in substance with the State Secretary responsible for public education, and we did not get the answer that we did not contribute then, and we do not support that the bonus should be increased by 40%, but we were told to submit it, raise it, and then settle the issue of deputy directors. And indeed, 24/2020. With the Government Decree of 1 July 2020, the amendment to increase the remuneration of directors to a significant extent and to 50% of children, depending on the number of children increase the replacement of the deputy directors. I welcome that in two ways. On the one hand, over the past six years and in the future, we have been extremely careful and will take care to use our parliamentary options specifically in matters of nationality and to try to achieve results, and we will preferably refrain from interfering or even giving advice on issues that go beyond national affairs. However, this is the case now, from which, of course, I do not wish to say, or anyone should take it as a misunderstanding, that increasing the remuneration of directors and deputy directors is a merit of nationalities, but it can be said that we have helped to make this happen. And this is very important not only in ethnic institutions, but also in all public education institutions, because the person of the leaders is decisive in all institutions. In this connection, I would like to add one more question: of course, we are working everywhere and in all cases primarily to improve the quality of ethnic educators and ethnic education. But there are less than a dozen of nearly 550 ethnic primary and secondary schools, unfortunately, where 100 percent of education takes place in one language, ethnic language. Less than 10 percent have bilingual education, but 50-55 percent of bilingual education goes only in ethnic language and 40-45 percent in Hungarian. About 90 percent of the ethnic educational institutions are so-called language educational institutions, where there are only 5 hours a week in ethnic language, while the other 15-20 hours are in Hungarian. So 75-80 percent of teachers teaching in our ethnic institutions are Hungarian teachers and teachers in Hungarian. Obviously, it is also in our elemental interest that Hungarian teachers are trained and work in the best possible conditions, since the majority of our children's education is carried out by Hungarian teachers, unfortunately, and not by ethnic teachers. We will want to change these proportions substantially, but this is the actual situation. I think it is very important to highlight this only so that we, as nationalities, have an elemental interest in our children and grandchildren, so that Hungarian teachers and Hungarian teachers are given the same level of education as ethnic teachers. The second important point of the minority educator's programme was the assessment of national pre-schools and the nationality educator's education, and the education of nationality educators. In the spring of 2017, we carried out a full survey of all national preschools. During the general discussion of the 2018 central budget bill, in the spring of 2017, I told the House about the data of the 215 kindergartens of German nationality. Now I would like to recall only one figure: 42 percent of the required German nationality educators were missing at the time of the survey, but they were also smaller than other nationalities, but there was also a substantial shortage. In parallel, we carried out a survey at eight colleges and universities for basic and complementary education of national education educators, and already in the 2019-2020 academic year, we supported eight training schools for national education teachers with HUF 100 million in support, but there are still very serious shortcomings in this area. The third point of the programme was the development of a scholarship system for national teachers. The specific numbers of the national education educator survey have confirmed that the start-up of the scholarship system should be accelerated compared to originally planned, and in three years, in three steps from 1 September this year, we will be able to extend the scholarship to 1-3 years of kindergarten educator training and 1-6th grade of the teaching, teacher, teacher and all nationalities for around 500-550 students. I would like to mention here and point out that the development of the scholarship system with the involvement of the relevant national minority authorities, professional wallets and experts was co-ordinated by the Hungarian Institute of German Education and continues to carry out administrative activities for all nationalities in relation to the preparation, administration and accounting of scholarships. Here, I would like to thank the Klebelsberg Centre, Mr Pánczél, for the very serious assistance we received in the development of the scholarship system on the basis of the Klebelsberg scholarship. This solution is the best possible solution from a national point of view, as we can operate the scholarship system in a highly cost-effective, rational way, but still with the maximum consideration of the individual aspects of each nationality. This has created a new structure, cooperation between the seven nationalities concerned, which has not been the case in the past. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Finally, fourthly, the key issue of the national minority educator programme is, of course, the development and assessment of the survey material of the minority teacher, teacher, teacher and teacher. [[11.00]] We also worked with a separate working group involving all stakeholders on the survey material of ethnic primary and secondary schools, the minority education board, for nearly a year, since we had to find answers to questions that had not even been formulated in the past. Last spring we prepared the survey material, and before the summer we did the sharp test in 15 selected institutions. Following its evaluation and amendment, we recorded the full process of the survey in the EMMI on 21 February this year. I am happy to say that despite the fact that the epidemic has led to the transition to digital education in the institutions, we have received 100 percent of the data from every institution that has been evaluated in the last two months. Mr President, Dear House, I hope that in these three days we have managed to provide some overview of the work of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, the life of 13 indigenous nationalities. I hope that I have been able to show that the Hungarian nationalities are making the most effective use of their budget resources for the benefit of our nationalities, but for the benefit of Hungary as a whole. On this basis, I ask this House to support our HUF 1.1 billion amendment request in the 2021 Budget Act, as in previous years. Thank you for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-12-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to an independent Member. Congressman Gergely Farkas!
u2020-06-12-33	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, I deal with youth in the debate on the budget as a recurring element. Not only because this generation is my concern, and I think that there is not enough talk about them in the budget debate year after year, but also because I think that the attitude of the government to the future of Hungary is crucial, let's say to the 14-30-year-olds, what the current budget provides for them, and in this case the 2021 budget. And I have to say, it's sad to look at the budget in this respect again this year, because it's a little short of what's in it for them. When we talk about young people, we like to mention, for example, the CSOK, the baby shower loan, but they forget that young people, say, an 18-year-old, a young college student, or young people in their 20s, are not thinking about having a baby, because I think the time for having children has been delayed, many people are having children at the age of 30-35, and they are not even thinking about buying, say, a new apartment, buying a new house with the help of the CSOK, because who doesn't have family support, the family background doesn't allow it, it certainly won't be possible. So let's say, for an 18-year-old or 20-year-old, a CSOK or baby shower credit is not an option in the age at which they are. And what's left for them? It remains for us, say, the free KRESZ, which is a very nice and important thing, or a free language exam, but we can easily see that a one-time grant of 20-30 thousand HUF is not something of the magnitude that would leave these young people at home. And the reason why these young people need to be mentioned in particular is because we know very well that they have the greatest willingness to emigration. They don't have a family yet, they're looking for a job, and they're easily confronted with the fact that they can make a lot more money abroad, and I'm telling you once again, a free KRESZ or language exam grant won't keep them at home. And what will be left for a young person if we do not look at them? The housing problem remains, since every survey that deals with young people shows that for them, at their age, housing is temporary housing in this sense, which is the biggest problem due to work and education, such as rent prices. They still have student loans, they can be indebted to this government, that they can be indebted, and that there are low wages that they can earn multiples of abroad. According to KSH data, just to say a little bit more about housing, a young person under 25 years of age or their average salary in 2019 was HUF 278 thousand gross, which is approximately 185 thousand net. If we raise that while the average rent for rent in Budapest is 160 thousand forints, let us assume that a young person does not live alone, we can also see that housing accounts for most of their average income, and so it is not difficult to figure out that not only do they have little money for everyday living, let alone that they cannot save it at all. And the next year's budget in this respect is always thoroughly reviewed, reviewed, and we do not see much of a solution to that. You have repeatedly stated and demonstrated that you are not giving support, just as there is no support for, say, young people living in apartments. For example, the last time I reported this was when I myself presented a proposal for a decision on the situation of the corona virus that would have helped people in the apartments who had lost their income because of the corona virus to receive support. You have clearly said that you will not be willing to do this, you will not be partners in this, you will not help these people, so not only now, in this situation with the Crown Virus, but in the budget next year, we do not see a line that would help hundreds of thousands of Hungarian countrymen living in the apartments with such unrealistic, horriable sublet amounts. The other option would be the one that would reduce rent prices if supply could be increased. For years, I have been saying to myself that there is a need for a public housing programme that would increase supply on the one hand. It is easy to see from an economic point of view that since there would be more apartments, lower rents, and not incidentally these public rentals could be given to young people for a low monthly rent, and thus help them to not think about emigration and living abroad, but to stay at home. And you don't give me that kind of support, but you give me student loans. And let us think a little about this, too, because here, my fellow Member, Mr Hollik, who spoke with some of me, has given a long list of the crimes of the previous government, including the fact that the country has been loaned, or we have heard from you many times about the fate of foreign exchange credoes, that it is indeed outrageous that people have been forced to pay themselves in debt. And what do we see now? You offer young people to be indebted to; take on student loans, as much as possible, if they need it, and then start the capital life with a million-dollar debt. This is what you are recommending to young people, and in a completely incomprehensible way, your press, the government propaganda, is showing this as a success. I would just like to quote a specific title: the trend is continuing, the number of student borrowers is increasing significantly again this year. Let us think a little about the need to be happy that young people are indebted to themselves? Is this a good news for you? Is it good news that the Student Credit Center currently has 177 thousand living contracts out of about 300,000 higher education students? Should we be pleased that young people are forced to take up student loans because of their own difficult situation? It's sad and sad that there's no alternative, because, for example, what could be an alternative for a college student, scholarships, are so low that they're forced to take credit for everyday living. After ten years, you raised higher education scholarships, academic and social scholarships in 2018, but this was not enough. It can be seen that there is little, because if there were not little, young people would not need such a proportion of student loans, not to mention that many people are forced to work for their daily livelihoods. So the sad thing is that there is money for student loans, and let's assume that... of course, there is no problem with student loans in itself, there should be such a credit scheme; the problem is that more and more people are forced to do so, and you are happy about it. So there's money for that, but there's no money for raising scholarships, for example. That is why, for example, I have tabled a budget amendment proposal to increase scholarships. And as a result of all this, as regards the young people's rent prices, the low level of scholarships and the low wages, this is reflected in the emigration; in the emigration in which, as I have already said, a lot of people in this generation are thinking, and we know very well that hundreds of thousands of people have left the country before. [[11.10]] And at a time when you are absolutely right to worry about the demographic crisis and take action, it is simply incomprehensible to me why you are not more concerned with the emigration of young people or even less young people who have left the country in recent years. You've had a very poor attempt, come home, young man. A program. Maybe if I remember correctly, we managed to bring home 50 young people for a hundred million forints. You have drawn the conclusion that this was a failure. They did the right thing because it was really visible that it didn't work in such a way. But since you have not set up any other programme, fund, series of measures to bring home the emigration of young people, I believe that this is a serious crime. That is why, as in recent years, I have tabled a proposal for a amending budget, which would specifically serve the purpose of giving our fellow countrymen who have already lived abroad a last aid, a push that will help them to make it worthwhile to return home. There is a need to sacrifice, to sacrifice money, and that would be the purpose of my amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to discuss the matters and problems of the 5th constituency of the county of Bács-Kiskun, which I represent. There are 23 settlements involved here, and unfortunately this constituency is not in a good position. In itself, the fact that from the ten poorest walks of the country, Bácsalmás and nine other settlements belong to this constituency, but the already ageing villages, low wages, and the greater than average emigration characterize this constituency. What I must mention first about the budget, which is most important for this area, is to create jobs and support existing jobs. The only reason I dare to bring this here is because we have seen here in recent years as regards the constituency, that if someone has good connections, then there is certainly a way to get support and public money for such purposes. It happened that at Deep Quarter, a poultry processing plant received HUF 4.4 billion of state aid, which is not a small amount of money. What's happened in the last two years since this plant opened? We can see today, and this is what I get from the locals and the locals from all the feedback that very few Hungarian workers are there, the salaries are so low, but the higher numbers of Hungarian workers are not from southern Hungary, but from Serbia. And do you know where they're coming from? There are workers from India. So what we need to see is that, through state aid, Indian and Serbian workers have managed to create jobs in Deep Quarter. This, I think, is thoughtful, because there are many Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in the region, including not only the other 23 settlements, where Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises do not receive any support, and if they did, they would be able to provide normal wages and even create new jobs. But the Hungarian people in this deep-kút wing processor can only offer such a low salary, which is why a lot of people prefer emigration and try their luck abroad, not out of an adventure, as we have heard from you, but in the sense of coercion and livelihood. And speaking of the development of our region, I still need to talk about the future plans for the construction of the M9 motorway. Unfortunately, I have not seen any concrete figures in the budget for next year, but it is very important. I and the people in the region are very much hoping that if this could create an economic recovery, create jobs, attract investment in the region, which could, for example, increase wages. However, for years, even though I have been asking many times, we have not received a concrete answer about its track, either where this road would go at all, in the southern border area or in the area of Kiskunhalas, but on the other hand, when they will begin to build it. So I ask you that when the budget is planned, we are thinking about visual investment, the money spent on the stadium, the money spent on government propaganda, and there are a number of other lines that we think it would be unnecessary for people in my constituency to think about, for example, the importance of building the M9, which would be a great help to the development of the region. And while we are talking about the motorway here, it is worth mentioning the point that in my constituency there are a number of motorways that would certainly require improvement. It is interesting because I was surprised to read in this year's budget that tens of billions of forints are being spent to build a racetrack. If you expect an adrenaline rush by driving, you may not have to build such a racetrack, but you just have to come and say, on the Kecel-Kiskunhalas section or on the Boat-Jánoshalma section, because it can certainly give you an adrenaline rush, unfortunately, these roads are in such a bad condition, not to mention the road connecting Bácsalmás to Cschéria, and there are other road sections. I have also submitted budgetary amendments to repair and renovate these sections of the road. Speaking of roads, I have also put forward proposals for amending cycling paths. In part, there is a need to build new ones in my constituency, in part, either a Kiskunhalas-Pirto or even a bicycle road in the vicinity of Tázlar is in such a bad condition, despite the fact that unfortunately it was handed over only a few years ago, or just a few months ago, as the Tázlar bicycle route, that it would be necessary to renovate them or to build new ones. On account of the short term of time, I would just like to present a few of my amendments, which are also related to my constituency. The bus station in Kiskunhalas is in terrible condition, the renovation has been planned for several years, but only the visual design has been completed. At last, the start of this would be very important. I have put forward a proposal in this regard. The spa in Kiskunhalas is looking with great hope that it can indeed be renewed, but here we are still just on the visual plans, and we need more resources here as well. In Kecelen, the municipality won a tender for the modernisation of the health house in 2018, but in the last two years due to the increase in material prices, the municipality is now unable to take on its own power, but it would be important for Kecel to implement this development. I also asked for this at the expense of next year's budget. At last, it would be important to solve the Kiskunhalas precipitation water drainage, which has taken place only in the upper part of the city, while still in the suburbs during a major rain, the water flows into the houses and garages. The quality of drinking water in Jánoshalman has been a problem for decades. The renovation of this drinking water network would be very urgent. And it would be important to renovate certain sidewalks in a uniform way in all settlements. In many places you can't push a stroller, the sidewalks are so bad. We're gonna need to refurbish these. I have tabled dozens of other proposals to promote the development of Hajós, Tompa, Bácsalmás, Kiskunhalas, Kecel, Kisszállás and many other settlements. I trust that these proposals will be heard, even because there is theoretically a government representative of the district, and it would be his job to support these proposals in his committee, when these amendments come before him, for the sake of his constituency, and even his lobbying force if there is any such involvement of the pro-government representative here, and the government and Fidesz-KDNP will support these constituencies' proposals. I am confident that they will finally break off with the tradition of looking at who has submitted proposals, because it would not be my victory or my success, but the success of the people in the constituency and their help. I trust that you will see this and support these proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák.
u2020-06-12-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would just like to answer questions about young people, and thank you for talking about this. I myself agree with Mr President that this is one of the most important issues and, therefore, an important issue of the budget for next year. It is important for us and for the government to give priority support to young people because they have the Hungarian future. [[11.20]] So what would be as important as helping young people, supporting young people to prosper in Hungary, to thrive here in their homeland, to have a viable vision for them? We try to help them do this, and we also help them learn, so that they can achieve the highest possible level of study, complete with all the help they can provide; they can also learn an early profession and start a family if they choose. Mr President, you have also mentioned the extent to which the date of childbearing has been extended, not only in Hungary but also in Europe, and even in the Western or developed part of the world, young people are starting families more and more later, and do so often because they have to face so many obstacles when they have found their mates. It is also so difficult to create the necessary financial conditions for starting a family that they cannot do so in many countries when they want to. In Hungary, we set out that when a young couple wants to start a family, they can do so, that there should be no financial obstacle to this, and that all young people can have as many children as they want. That's why we work. Of course, young people's lives are not only about starting a family, there is also a time before they start a family when young people need support. I would like to mention a few points that I think are important and included in the budget, and I think it is in the interests of all young people to know about these options. You have also mentioned that we help young people to obtain a free license by refunding the fee for the KRESZ exam, or by obtaining the first foreign language exam. Indeed, I am not saying that this is the most important thing we have done in the last ten years, but I think it is an important step, because there are many young people who have a serious item, such as funding a language exam or even funding a next language exam if they already have one. For each young person in 35 years, the acquisition of a foreign language exam is ensured by refunding the fee for a successful language exam. Similarly, we help young people under the age of 20 to obtain their driver's license with the free KRESZ course and the free KRESZ exam. I would add here that if someone in the situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic, during the emergency, has reached that age, we have extended the possibility, so they can pass these language examinations for a while or they can complete the CROSS courses, the CROSS exams, by refunding their fee. Congressman also mentioned student loans that are good or bad, we are pleased that young people are using student loans. I also consider this an opportunity. There are many countries, I can say, that the majority of Western countries are such that young people have to take credit in order to learn at all. Not all young people are in such a situation in Hungary, but there are also young people in Hungary who can benefit from a very favourable, even zero-percent, loan to complete or cover the costs associated with their studies. I think it's an opportunity, no one has to. It's an opportunity to expand the margin of manoeuvre. We also took the step to release the student loans that were taken later, in part or in part, in the case of having children, in order to help young people who had previously taken on student loans, and later to start a family, so that they would not have to bear the burden of student loans, and we would take it from them if they were to start a family. So I think this is also an opportunity to increase the leeway of young people. Just now, one of the novelties of recent months has been the introduction of a new form of student loan. The fact that in an emergency, when young people had to give up the opportunity to earn enough money or this money to make a living in addition to their studies, and perhaps now they didn't have the opportunity to do student work, as we know that in many places in the emergency, students had the opportunity to take on a half a million HUF student loan for the first time, I think they were able to increase their mobility again. So this help was there, and many young people lived with it. It is just now that we have enabled young people to take their diploma into their own hands without having the language examination necessary to obtain it. I encourage everyone to learn languages, acquire foreign language skills, and pass the exam, but now we have given 75,000 young people the opportunity to cancel their language exams so that they can receive their diplomas, and now, in a difficult situation in the labour market, they can find a better place and earn higher wages for themselves, higher wages. I think it's another opportunity that a lot of young people have. According to current data, I understand that 13 thousand young people have already taken over their degrees thanks to this new opportunity. Congressman mentioned emigration. Like the Secretary of State, I also miss supporting all the facts, data and figures about how emigration is growing, and more and more young people are leaving Hungary. You can sketch images like Armageddon, but it would be good to support them with exact data. After all, if you look at the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, how many people leave Hungary in a given year and how many people come back, you can see the changes in this very clearly, and you can all see that there is a positive trend in this. And I also think that it is worth thinking about emigration at all, if, for example, a young person decides to spend a year, two years or a semester, two semesters, or several semesters at a foreign university, or even if he tries to get lucky abroad, even working there for a few years, and then comes back, especially if he does so within the European Union, alive with the right of free movement within the European Union, for which we have worked so much, and which generations before us still have to spare. So I do not see this as a mass fleeing from Hungary, and I think it is harmful to try to outline such a picture, because that is not the case, that is not the case, and even more and more young people are indicating that they want to come back to Hungary. We have now modified the terms of the CSOK, the opportunities for home creation or the inclusion of baby shower support for young people who have studied abroad or have already started working abroad, and have indicated that they would come home, want to start a family or move home with their families, to open up these opportunities or to be even more fully accessible. Then there's young people's talent. In Hungary, there is a unique way of running a program called "National Talent." On an annual basis, more than three billion HUF will be spent only through the National Talent Programme to support young Hungarians and talented people. This also seems to be part of the cooperation of Hungarian people, as 1 percent of personal income tax is offered for this purpose by hundreds of thousands, thus supporting young Hungarian talent, and we double this every year according to a previous decision, so we add the same amount to one percent of the personal income tax offered, thus exceeding three billion forints of resources for the care of talent and the investment we can offer to young Hungarian talent. Here, too, I can tell you something new, as the financial resources of talent management are also included in the budget for next year. There is a proposal going on right now, and you can submit applications for a scholarship that is about young people who are so talented and cherish ideas that they want to study abroad at the best universities in the world, then you can do this by getting full state support, scholarship, a Stipendium Peregrinum scholarship. So, let us not only discourage those young people from increasing their knowledge abroad, but also bring it home, and all of us at home can get rich with it, but on the contrary: we encourage that if they meet this standard, and if they have such an idea, they have such a plan to study abroad, at the best universities in the world, they can even receive state aid for this, a very high amount of state aid. We can support up to 20 young people in this form in the next academic year through the Stipendium Peregrinum Scholarship. We're getting applications for this scholarship right now. Finally, in order to respond to all points of his suggestion, he mentioned the opportunities for home creation that I had partially mentioned. You are right, Congressman, that the CSOK, the home creation programme, is for young people who already know who they want to start a family with and how they want to start a family. This option has given a wide range of people and is aimed primarily at this stage of life and a later stage of life, families having children after or having children. At the same time, we had an application from development sources, which with great success helped young people stay in their small settlements in Hungary, with the title "Home Chance." This was about the fact that if young people find employment, find employment, and help in the community, they will be granted temporary housing support for a few years, and were made available to young people after the renovation of municipal homes. That was also extremely popular. So I agree that young people should be supported as much as possible, which is what next year's budget is all about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.30]]
u2020-06-12-36	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to the notary, Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue.
u2020-06-12-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Then let's see how the tax burden on under-average earners has changed in the last ten years. Forints, pennies, we can tell you, so really, I like specifics, too. Let's see!In 2010, the gross minimum wage was 73 500 forints, the net was 60 237 forints, so 13 thousand forints of taxes and contributions were paid by a minimum wage. In 2020, it was a gross net cost of HUF 161 000, amounting to HUF 107 065, i.e. HUF 54 thousand, paid as a tax and contribution charge by a minimum wage. If we look at the proportions because they are obviously correct, we see that the public burden of these people has increased from 18% to 34%; and the situation is very similar at the guaranteed minimum wage level. So while the tax burden on low-income workers, low-income earners, nearly three million people, has almost doubled, while the tax rate of large companies has dropped from 19 per cent to 9 per cent, and this is only the nominal tax, and if you look at your budget numbers because you have to look at the figures, the company's actual tax rate is 5.5 per cent in 2021, and the larger a company, the lower the actual tax rate. The 30 largest companies pay Tao money below 1 percent into the budget. So while you almost doubled the tax burden on low-income workers, you reduced corporate taxes to a quarter. So don't start talking about numbers now, because you came into my street really bad, and people know it. I am very sorry that Mr Secretary of State, who used to be a man of numbers, is now repeating this unjust and lying Fidesz propaganda here in Parliament. It's a disgrace to the profession, and I'm truly sorry for the fact that you agreed to this street. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát, Jobbik, for two minutes.
u2020-06-12-39	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to give my compliments to the Secretary of State. It is very rare in the budgetary debate that someone makes a point of making meaningful reactions, although from his own point of view. I appreciate that, both with Secretary of State Banai and with you. At the same time, numbers are stubborn, and I very much hope that there will be a fruitful debate between us on these matters. In the last ten years and in order not to think that I am addressing only the Fidesz governments, what I am saying is that the Hungarian population of the Carpathian Basin has fallen by about a million people. There was a reason for this, there was an emigration, but if we add it up, we can talk about minus one million people in a decade. So the fact is that the exemplary certificate can be handed out to anyone here in Parliament for himself if it can make a systemic change. Madam Secretary! When my opposition fellow Member talks about housing for young people, I also think that we also think that we support the CSOK, that every sane person is in favour of having a home of his own. However, the Hungarian reality shows that many cannot do this for financial reasons. The part required for the CSOK, Madam State Secretary, has been collected by many young people with state-supported housing savings, saving the small income they have been able to put aside in addition to the abnormally low Hungarian wage level over the years. You have stopped this. So it would be good to have a meaningful response for those who have received nothing from a slightly more difficult starting position than this earlier state-supported option. Antal Rogán's home lotteries were mentioned earlier in this circle, but perhaps we cannot take it so seriously that it is a solution for a wide range of young people, but I see that with one example, the situation was not needed for the Hungarians in London 15 years ago, there were not so many people there to organize a Tanktapda concert. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Today, a separate industry has been built to organize lectures for the Hungarian community living there. This is not because the migration balance would have been reversed. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-12-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2020-06-12-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, wanted to respond to the thoughts of the Secretary of State in a few sentences. What I understand is that you're issuing a certificate of your own work, that you've done very well as the Secretary of State responsible for this area, but the reality doesn't exactly show what you've been talking about, because we've discussed in several debates, or at least discussed how demographic indicators stand, how poverty is in Hungary, how poverty is deepened, in which yesterday, Mr State Secretary, we had a longer debate here in Parliament. So I think that the opposition representatives point, of course, to the points where there is still plenty to do while we see you talking about this social issue or the exodus or the situation of children as if all the problems had already been solved. Yesterday, Minister of State celebrated how many people came home to Hungary, that more people had come home than they had left. I think you said 11 400 yesterday. The only problem is that hundreds of thousands of people have left Hungary, and in general, when they ask most of them about wanting to return home at some point, their answer is, unfortunately, basically, that they do not want to come home, because if they have already found their calculation out there, it is very difficult to lure them home. Therefore, I would recommend with due respect to the attention of the government that some humility be mixed in with the proganda of success, because it would probably validate your sentences as much as they often expect of us, and that we recognise favorable government measures. For my part, when I really think I do, I do, but somehow this aspect of the debate is always missing. Respect for the exception, but Mrs. Secretary of State's sentences did not reveal this. Here it really seems to me that everything is wonderfully beautiful, good, and actually came to Hungary on Canaan. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-12-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The two-minute lap is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of Finance.
u2020-06-12-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am glad that Congressman Bence Tordai is here in this Chamber, because what he was talking about is an increase in the tax due. In particular, the fact that gross wages have increased. Not the tax rate has changed, not the discounts have been withdrawn, but the tax has increased as a result of the increase in gross wages. Congressman! Your taxes are certainly higher today than what you paid last year or the year before. Why is that? That's because the gross wage has increased. The situation was the same for those employed at the minimum wage. Please remember the agreement reached by the government with employers and employees at the end of 2016. This included an increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage for several years. This process is likely to continue over the next period, and, as wages increase, of course, the tax payable will also increase and, of course, net income will also increase. What I highlighted is the most important element for workers how net income increased. And we can report that between 2010 and 2020, net income of the lowest earners also increased substantially, and inflation did not take this away, but net real earnings also increased significantly. Let me say two figures: between 2010 and 2020, the net real income of employees at the minimum wage increased by 42 percent if the employee did not have a child, without a family benefit; if he had three children, then his net real income increased by 107,8 percent, so it doubled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-44	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Banai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák.
u2020-06-12-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, we always try to be ready for the debate, and we are happy to have a sensible debate here in Parliament. I am no longer in a lucky position to be able to respond to Congressman Mesterházy by listening to the answer. I'm not surprised in the sense that I'm actually going to say this, as I say every time, that they should be faced with having been on the government. Unfortunately, these facts are stubborn, and unfortunately, it cannot be undone, although many people would like to, but they do not, and the Hungarian people remember this; they remember what it meant when there were no family support, and even those family support were abolished. [[11.40]] So I believe that this is a bad thing to hear, and I believe that it is wrong to repeat it over and over again, but it was also bad for those who have experienced these moments when they have taken away the home creation program; when they have abolished the family tax relief for everyone other than the large families; when they wanted to tax the family allowance; when they took away the 13th month pension. A long list of how the families of that time were actually trapped in a currency trap were many, hundreds of thousands. But now I would not answer that further, but I would respond to the points that I really don't think we have anything to do, which is why we will still have to have the opportunity to work further, to do all the things that have not yet been done. So we really need a few more years to do this. And we never said that, but the fact that nothing happened would be an exaggeration to me. And while we are talking about demography, we, who, I think, have a common goal for a long time, to do something to reverse the demographic negative trend, I think we should be glad that now there seem to be positive signs, or it seems that if we look at the data on a monthly basis, I am always cautious about evaluating the monthly data, and there is a reason for cautious hope that, since 2010, there have been signs of a turn of trends. The fact that the number of marriages has increased as much as they have increased; the fact that there is a year in which the number of marriages has doubled from one year to the next on a monthly basis; the increasing number of young people who dare to say yes to a life together in this way, and then we hope to have children, this, I think, is definitely a positive feedback and confirmation for all of us. The total fertility rate of childbearing is now showing signs of a repeated increase. At the annual level, we have seen a stagnation in recent years, although there was an increase of more than 20 percent before, but now, in terms of monthly data, we see again yesterday the monthly data of the KSH came out that this indicator rose from 1.41 to 1,49 compared to the same period of the previous year. So I think it's another positive sign. The fact that infant mortality or the number of abortions is at an unprecedented low point is another welcome thing. In the same way, I can say that, in parallel with the increase in the number of marriages, which has not been as high in 40 years as it is now, the number of divorces is down to 70 years. So again, I'm just suggesting that I think there are some positive signs in population data that give rise to cautious confidence. Indeed, this is the case for annual data on immigration and emigration, if we look at this balance there, we can see a positive shift there, according to the statistics available to us. So this is why I am confident that starting a better family in Hungary is getting better and better in Hungary, and in this sense young people also have more faith in the future and a more positive vision. And we're working to make it even more so. I'm not saying that we've done all the work, and I'm definitely not saying that, but that a lot of things have happened, I think it might not be possible to have this taken away. I would like to respond to one more point of substance. You are right, Congressman, that the CSOK needs its own share, or there is someone who needs it, which may not have been given to everyone, but at the same time, by introducing the baby shower support nearly a year ago, we have given you an opportunity to use that 10 million forint as a self-reliance, but by the way, young people can use it for anything else. So there's an opportunity in the hands of a young man today that's never had anything like it. Imagine a young man today who has found a match in his life and knows that he wants to connect his life with him, and he wants to start a family with him. To begin this life today, a young person receives an interest-free zero-percent baby shower allowance of HUF 10 million, which even if the future mother is pregnant, she doesn't even have to start paying back, as we immediately suspend repayments for three years. So you have 10 million forints once. If they know that they want to create a home and know that they want a big family, they will receive an unrefundable grant of another HUF 10 million. They won't even have to pay back 10 million or even 10 million if these ideas come true. For this you can also borrow a discount loan with a premium rate of HUF 15 million with a interest rate of less than 3 per cent. So 10 plus 10 plus 15, we're at 35 million forints. And if I go further and I say that after the birth or conception of the second child, we will release one million HUF and then the third child will receive four million HUF of this loan, then they will receive HUF 35 million without having to pay back 25 million HUF, and the other 10 million will be repaid in 25 years with a reduced interest rate. I believe that this is an opportunity in the hands of a young couple today that will give them the chance, even if they have not received support from home, they have no financial assistance; even if they had never had the prospect of doing so; and even then and here I will reflect on their claims again, if they had had had a chance before to go abroad to find a way to collect the money they could make their own home. And who knows, then how many people report that you've probably met with reports like this, that it's not as simple as you'd imagined, and there's no fence out of sausages abroad. Compared to this, we offer at home a perspective that is an opportunity that you do not have to live with, but if you think so, then you can take this opportunity. I am happy about this, and I believe that this can also be a joint success, the success of all Hungarian people, and that is why I am pleased that next year's budget provides the resources needed to support families. There are HUF 2300 billion in next year's budget to support families. I would remind you so much that this was HUF 960 billion in 2010. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-46	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Preliminary speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz.
u2020-06-12-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, With due humility, although Congressman Attila Mesterházy is not in the hall, I would like to quote Baron József Eötvös, who lived in the centre of my constituency, who used to be Minister of Education, and the famous educational law of 68 is also associated with his name. No one can go straight with their eyes blindfolded. In a budget debate, you somehow feel that we are listening to opposition speeches, and as if they were blindfolded, as if they were not seeing and knowing today's Hungarian reality. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We feel the same way...]] It is an interesting thing to talk about a former betterman congressman's constituency, since, as far as I know, his constituency doesn't have a list of Members, but only for individual Members of Parliament. And, believe me, Congressman, it's because you used to have to do this mantra at Jobbik... [[For signal:]] Exactly, by not appreciating yourself with an "A," as Mr Mesterházy said, Madam Secretary of State, but what can be pointed out from this budget with a calm conscience is that it is a family-friendly budget, but a family-friendly governance. Madam Secretary of State has listed a number of discounts, and you have also spoken about it, and I do not think that this should be taken away. And obviously, the trend in demography has some serious prognosis. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Tell me!]] You're even younger than I am, and I'm at an age where my children and my children are just before they start a family, and believe me, there are people and a lot of people who come home from abroad. A specific example: young woman from White Colony, now expecting her first child, looks like twins will be born, come home from England, because there is no country in Europe that supports the family so much. There's a reason they want to see us in the world. You have to go, you have to ask any party, and everyone asks the Hungarian model, everyone wants to learn from the Hungarian model. But to do that, you have to know the voters. [[11.50]] So when we say that we are indebting the youth with student loans, it is important to see that people who have parents in difficult financial circumstances can also get to college and university and make it easier for them to have student loans. But I'm also not sure that, by the way, a young person who has, say, middle-class parents doesn't want to talk to his parents, and doesn't feel like he's going to be in debt on student loans. So I can only congratulate you on the fact that the government spends so much on family support in the next year's budget, because the family is the settlement, the local community is the basis of our daily lives, and the Christian-Conservative logic is built on all kinds of things. Another element I would like to talk about is how the Hungarian government turns to small settlements from national sources. I am the representative of the individual parliamentary district, where 88 settlements are located, and it is a great pleasure for me to be able to speak in a budget debate as a Member of Parliament for the second time about the great help of the Hungarian village programme, since there was no such government before, which aims to reduce the exodus of people living in the Hungarian village with such a programme. In the next year's budget, HUF 90 billion was earmarked for the Hungarian village programme. This applies to small settlements of less than 5,000 inhabitants and prioritizes settlements in a difficult situation. In my constituency, from 88 settlements, with the exception of two towns with a population of more than five thousand, 86 settlements can be accepted, and from last year only two billion HUF support was received from the Hungarian village, which is very popular. We do not forget that, although Mr Arató was not here, who was trying to get the DK line of thought before us when we came up with a proposal for a budget law, so we are recalling the times that he said a responsible government would do: radically raise educators' wages in such a situation. Mr. Secretary of State was mayor at the time. I was mayor at the time. We remember the times when a certain 50 percent increase in teacher's wages, which was not covered by the central budget, imposed a burden on municipalities. And we do not forget, and many settlements do not forget that in fully indebted settlements the government with consolidation has given cities opportunities from small settlements to small towns. But we could also get used to the fact that nothing is good at this time, no sub-heading budget increases when discussing such a proposal for a budget law, although I note that almost all sub-areas are rising. I'd like to put a very small thought into education. It increases by 54 percent between 2010 and 2022. When we talk about education, we remember the salaries of the 2010 teachers, and then we know the current salaries. Of course, we know that it is also true for family support and education that more can be done, of course, but let me recommend to you the quote of Gábor Bethlen, which reads: "It is not always possible to do what needs to be done, but it is always necessary to do what can be done. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Obviously, the compilation of the country's budget can be compared to a large cake, which means the money of different slices, different sub-headings, so you know your budget limits. But I believe and confess that this civilian government is doing everything in its power to say that it is family-friendly for the 2021 budget, and to say that it is on the side of the rise of the countryside. I would like to add one more small addition to the programme of the Hungarian village. There are 226 settlements in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, 206 settlements in the 226 settlements can be used by the Hungarian village programme and, mutatis mutandis, the village CSOK. The number of applications for village CSOK is highest in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county. So here, I'd like to deny the betterman's statements that, of course, it's not enough to buy an apartment. There are settlements where a small help from the village CSOK can make a home purchase for a family-founding youth. In the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, 428 applications were supported in the Hungarian village programme, and only our county received 5.8 billion HUF. I am very pleased that there is also a new sub-programme for the Hungarian village programme in the next year's budget, and this is the Village Civil Fund, and we are trying to encourage it, and the government is trying to encourage civil society organisations in small settlements and villages. So I am asking you, obviously, that the opposition will not support it, but believe me that you can support this budget with a calm conscience, because there really are elements in it that we can be proud of with due humility. I am also proud of the program of the Hungarian village, and I am also proud of the support of the family for this budget. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-12-48	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group.
u2020-06-12-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out a few things about what I have tabled an amendment to the current budget. Last week we discussed a number of topics that affected the victims of crime. This is one of Jobbik's branches from the very beginning, and we have been saying this ever since we were in Parliament since 2010, that we should give greater protection to the victims in Hungary, and we have not seen that the Hungarian state has really sided with it. We know very well that, in many cases, the victims will not receive any compensation, because the criminal who is convicted and jailed turns out that he does not have any assets, he does not have any income, he does not have anything to do with it, and we are talking about millions of HUF damage, if any. On the other hand, we have seen that the prisoners have received millions of compensations or compensations. That is why we have tabled an amendment that would invest money in the compensation fund for the victims. We know that there is such a law, the 2005 CXXXV. It is a law that deals with this, but it really allows for a narrow compensation, and its amount is also very limited. We would therefore recommend this in any way, that the Honourable Parliament accept it and establish such a fund for the compensation of the victims. The other thing I'd like to talk about is the attorney's fee, the defense fee, and the patron's fee. This has been 6,000 forints for years and 4-5 thousand forints before, but if you look at the attorney fees, this is a ridiculous amount. The big problem with this is that in many cases they are not able to carry out their duties properly with this amount of money, and we would like to see this hourly rate increased to HUF 10,000 for them. The Bar Association has proposed this many times in a much higher amount, but in our view it is also important to touch it and raise it. We have tabled several amendments to this issue. There have also been small improvements to the amount raised in the budget law in previous years, but now I think it is up to date. I would like to mention a very important topic, and this is the retirement of men after 40 years of employment. This is one of the branches of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, and almost since we entered Parliament, for ten years now, we have practically constantly besieged the National Assembly and the Government, so that not only women can have this opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment, but also men can leave, thus eliminating this discrimination between men and women. [[12.00]] But that's not the point. The point is that these people have worked for 40 years, and we need to see that the general state of health in Hungary is, unfortunately, that a good part of men will die by the time they reach retirement age. Only two thirds of men are entitled to retirement age, and even those with a lower education than graduation are far worse, and they do not have 50 percent who are worth the retirement age. In any case, it is unfair that virtually one third of the male society is unable to make use of the pension at all, and a further part of it, as life expectancy is much lower, can only enjoy retirement for a very short period. There is also an actuality of this problem, as we have seen how many have become unemployed in the last few months due to the effects of the Covid-19 virus and its economic impact. We have already proposed this, and it would be good for the government to take this to heart and accept it, because people who are now 50-55 years old and 60 years old are very, very difficult to find their way into the primary labour market. Let's face it. Unfortunately, employers are not looking for people over 50, but are choosing from younger people. This could, in effect, give them some kind of benefit, and it could be arranged that they should not be in the labour market, where they cannot at the moment, because the labour market is narrowed down, but that they could receive a pension and leave. This would be fair and fair for them. Moreover, social expenditure would also have a positive impact on its introduction, since some people who otherwise live on social benefits or are in the social network would receive an old-age pension. This is such an important proposal that, according to surveys, more than three-quarters of the Hungarian population would otherwise support the possibility of pensioning men plus 40. I think that the government, the Parliament, should consider creating the opportunity for men to retire after 40 years of employment. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-12-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. The next speaker is Mr László Földi, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-12-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. So at the beginning of the summer of 2020, I think that after such a spring, we can still look with confidence at 2021. The majority of the government and the Parliament in Fidesz-KDNP responded quickly to the dangers that came this spring, indicating the risk of the virus. We know very well that not only did this virus take people's lives, but also caused a lot of trouble and trouble in the economy. It is natural that the population of the country has done everything and I can really be a great deal of fuss for the Hungarian people and especially for people living in the 12th constituency of Pest County, who have shown great discipline in recent months. The fact that the epidemic has reached the level at which it is now is a joint success not only for politicians but also for the whole Hungarians. Hungary's central budget for 2021 is not independent of the coronal virus epidemic, as, just as health protection cannot end, it can only enter a new phase, so the reduction of the economic impact of the pandemic will be guaranteed for the next year. At this point, I note that while mourning over fate is not an established parliamentary genre, it is worth noting how unfair it is that, when things have turned out well in the country, they have, unfortunately, become worse as a result of a virus. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year's budget will meet the basic need for security. As the Minister said in his exposé, the 2021 budget is a budget for economic protection, but while maintaining epidemiological preparedness, the protection of human life is the first, while defending against the virus, we need to restart the economy. Therefore, it is important that, in the budget of 21, the common register is organised into two funds, an epidemiological and an economic fund, in a different way from the previous one. The biggest economic protection programme in Hungary's history has been launched and will continue next year, with a strong support for the protection of jobs and the creation of new jobs. The government's goal is to create at least as many new jobs as the epidemic has destroyed. At the same time, and this is very important for us Christian democrats, Hungary must remain a family-friendly place, so support for parents and children must not be reduced. The draft budget for next year also meets this requirement, since, unlike the left, it focuses not on austerity, but on assistance. In this spirit, tax reductions will continue. The origo of these measures is the ideal of solidarity. Everyone must play their part in the costs of health and economic control against the epidemic: the central budget, financial institutions, multi-enterprises and municipalities. As a former mayor, I would like to draw attention to this. On the one hand, I remind you that these withdrawals do not destroy local governments, as we are talking about HUF 34 billion overall, and I only know Cegléd and the municipalities in the constituency, but the withdrawal of the locally staying part of the motor vehicle power tax does not cause a very big problem in the budgets of cities and municipalities. On the other hand, we forget, but I'd like to risk taking over the debt. The government took over more than HUF 1200 billion from government debt at the time. Basically, the municipalities could start with a clean slate. The municipalities have breathed, and even now, if there is a problem, there is an opportunity to obtain funds that can come out in case of bankruptcy or bankruptcy. I should also mention that, since Pest County is located in the central region and could not receive EU euro support, the government has created an 80 billion-dollar fund, thus compensating in some way 186 municipalities of Pest County. I must also point out that the program "Hungarian Village" is also significant. In my constituency, there are seven settlements that have made use of this opportunity and have been able to make major improvements both in the field of health care and in the area of road and sidewalk repair. This programme will continue next year. It is also worth noting that next year's budget plans for the municipalities more than HUF 118 billion in 2020, which represents a 16 percent increase. It is therefore silly to talk about the bleeding of local governments, such as the fact that the Parliament did not meet in the spring, or that an ambulanceer, who is not a paramedic, saw what he saw where he had not been. Ladies and gentlemen, As a teacher, a member of the Parliament's Cultural Committee on Education, I would also like to say a few words on budgetary issues concerning education. [[12.10]] First of all, allow me to express my appreciation to the teachers and students who have moved to the digital curriculum, who have passed an excellent exam during this extraordinary period. And since I've used the word "test," I would like to congratulate the graduates and performers in particular. I wish the students good experiences for the soon-to-be vacation, and I hope that the teachers will also have the opportunity to rest up on the tiredness of distance learning. Ladies and gentlemen, The government spends HUF 2229 billion on education in the 2021 budget year, which is 78 billion more than this year. The development of public education institutions will also be an important task next year. Here I note, I am very confident that in the coming years we will be able to launch the development and renovation of the Kossuth Lajos High School in Cegléd, because this more than 120-year-old institution is in pretty bad shape. But it's important to have a teacher I., a teacher II. and the continuation of the qualification of master educator, researcher teacher and the development of textbooks and musical education based on the work plan of the Ministry of Human Resources. I consider it very important to help learn languages in a foreign language environment. But first of all, I would like to highlight another very important factor: the development of programmes that effectively prevent and manage school abuse. In the context of the latter, the voluntary use of public schools, i.e. the establishment of a non-mandatory school guard, is only one of the instruments available. We would be making a mistake if we accepted the hegemony of this apparently high media attention measure, as the government in the central budget is mobilising significant resources to develop the conflict prevention capabilities of teachers and students, to involve the helpers available at any time. I wanted to mention this in any way in the context of next year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Finally, for a few sentences, I would also like to address the budgetary issues of my constituency, Cegléd, Nagykőrös and Abony, as I have been representing the constituency in Parliament for the tenth year. First of all, it is important to mention that in 2021 the government will continue with a cost of nearly HUF 30 billion in the program of the Budapest Healthy Program. This is important because the Toldy Ferenc Hospital and Police Institute in Cegléd is part of this program, and we hope that this program will be able to start soon at the Cegléd Hospital. While I am talking about health, I also feel that it is important to develop sports facilities, which, in spite of the narrow political classifications, are, in my view, primarily protections for health protection, disease prevention, the greatest possible use of which also brings economic benefits, as it can substantially reduce or reduce the number of patients and the cost of their healing. Similarly, it is important projects that are or have been implemented in the field of road network development. A good example of this is the construction of the M4 road to Cegléd, which is slowly reaching Abony and reaching the city of Szolnok by 2022. There's no progress without a road. We find that, where highways were built, it explores the area, explores the area and makes it more attractive to investors. A very good example of this is Cegléden, a company called Infineon, which is now investing a $32 billion investment in the city of Cegléd. I am very confident that after several years of work, you can start in 2021 and complete the bicycle route with Cegléd by 2022, as well as via Nagykőröst Summerfather Cegléd. There's been a lot of negotiations on this. I trust budget support and implementation of projects. Overall, it can therefore be said that next year's budget, the economic protection action plan, which moves about 20 percent of GDP, will enable the stability of businesses and the financial security of Hungarian families to be preserved. We support the government's continued objective of full employment. Let us remember that before the epidemic, before the crisis, the number of people employed exceeded 4.5 million people, while the unemployment rate was 3.3 percent. It is right that the government is dealing with labour market problems caused by the epidemic, not with aid, but with job creation and wage support. It's very tangible. I know very well that the average person, the little man, when we talk to them, is looking for a job and not trying to make a living on welfare. People need jobs, not benefits. A good direction is the non-left direction, which prefers tax reduction and family help rather than austerity. I also consider it important to improve the situation of pensioners. The fact that part of the 13th month pension is already included in next year's budget and the 13th month pension is fully restored is a key issue. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft central budget of Hungary for 2021 is proof that the national side continues to walk only one way: the one leading forward. Have a safe trip in 2021, Hungary! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-52	Thank you, Mr László Földi, for your speech. Here comes MEP László Szakács, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-06-12-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it a little difficult to speak after the previous speech. We heard a really nice speech on May 1st, which, let's face it, gives us an opportunity to give our critical comments. Let me start by helping the pensioners. This has been said a great deal on our side, where you have raised pensions by a horribly offensive and fundamentally degrading 2.8 percent of pensioners, because they said that this is inflation. After that, the Ministry of Finance itself, the central bank and everyone admitted that everyone saw that inflation ran away in January, February. We demanded, requested, demanded, requested, asked for more in the convergence programme, demanded, asked for the help of pensioners. It is true that fuel prices may decrease, but let's face it, pensioners are not the ones who use the most fuel in Hungary. That pensioner shopping basket that we put together for pensioners and see how much more they pay, well, that's not 2.8 percent. That is much more than that, fellow Members. The price of basic food, the price of meat, and the price of meat products have sometimes increased by 20-30 percent, which is what pensioners take. On the other hand, you have done nothing, and we are now hearing that we should celebrate that next year, next February, this government will help us with a week's pension, and on behalf of many pensioners, I can now say that the owner of this idea will hold our breath until then, please be kind. The pensioners need help now. Not even next February, not four years from now, but they still need help. I think we are not far from reality and we are not kicking off the ground when we ask that either on the basis of the Swiss indexation, you be able to raise your pension by 6.8 percent or at least that the amount of the pension correction planned for October will be advanced this spring. [[12.20]] It got harder for everyone this spring, and we said that pensioners should be helped. The pensioners did not see this help, and they should even be glad that they can wait until February next year for this help, and we have just heard this celebration here. This needs to be restored by job creation and not by help. We told everyone to get a job. There is work to be done for everyone, but the government always says that because we want to give aid. No! Those who have lost their jobs because of the epidemic need to be helped. You look down on those people and you say because they're asking for help. No! They are no less valuable than they were before the epidemic, but simply the measures taken to protect the disease have made it impossible for them to work. It is not that they do not need them in the labour market. It is not that the work, the company, the product they produce, is not necessary in the market. It is about the fact that they were unable to carry out their work as a result of the measures taken for the control of the disease. These measures were thought-out and less thought-out, but let's face it: in Hungary, the disease control was basically successful, the number of diseases was low, which was greatly contributed by the fact that the Hungarian people were infinitely disciplined, but a lot of people, I suppose, lost their pay because, for example, there was a government decree that didn't close the shops, but it didn't allow us to go in. We've got to help them. This thought may have been correct, but it also needs to be helped by people who have lost their income. Secretary of State, we are the only ones who see the numbers of fast, temporary loans, how the number of fast, temporary loans has increased, that companies offering fast, temporary loans without collateral have to hire people and open new offices? Well, people are funding their lives from temporary loans now, and you may have calculated that, but it's also a loan that needs to be repaid. So I refuse to let the government look down on the people who are in a difficult situation because of the epidemic, that aid must be given. Those people aren't worth less, those workers aren't worth less, and that's not what we said. We said that the government would take over 80% of their wages. This is not unprecedented and unparalleled! It is a process, because that is what Europe is doing. All the countries around us do that. I also understand pride in how many jobs you say you have protected, but you do not dispute that there are over 400,000 people who write this nicely. appeared as a source in the labour market. Over 400,000 people, 400,000 families who have three months left to find work. But if someone lost their job in March, then he long ago, last month, those three months expired. I think that, in this respect, pensioners should stand up as well as employees, and I can see that, and of course, the experts can see this, that you are constantly relaxing with Kurzarbei in Hungarian: on the rules of abridged work, which I have often said was a short-term labour policy that took over and tried to take over the Hungarian provisions of the German Kurzarbei, but it was managed to explain that it was accompanied by the Polish engineers with the Son: they developed it until Kispolski became Kispolski. Well, if it was so attractive right now, then why so few use it? I also talk to entrepreneurs, and they said that they would definitely not take this, because it's a loan, they don't want to take credit, because they don't know how they're going to repay it, they won't be able to repay it, and we also see that most of this rescue package is basically a loan. Another thought about this economic rescue package, which is a historical, unprecedented package. What we see is that the government is moving away from this politically, so as far as it can, it pushes it away a little bit, especially by the characters that the public knows even better. This is because 10 000 billion are talking about it, not in a year, but in three years; this is going to happen in three years, and it's not actually a new source, it's a loan, it's a loan, it's a central bank loan, it's a commercial bank loan, and we'll see how attractive it's going to be to hire these companies when they don't know what kind of economic situation they're in, so that those companies can pay back. And I would like to point out one more very important point in this regard: don't you, Secretary of State, these loans are being granted because they have examined the debtor's financial and income conditions and are being given with the intention of repaying them to the debtor rather than to redistribute the market. I believe that these doubts have not been resolved in recent years. "The municipalities will not be ruined," said my colleague before me. I am in the fortunate position that there are many municipalities in Baranya County that have remained in opposition hands, remain in opposition leadership, and there are others that have become opposition leaders, such as the county seat. I went round Baranya County yesterday, went to larger, smaller settlements, medium settlements, and, well, Mr. Secretary, the truth is, that's not what the mayors told me. I was told by the mayors that they had struck back the improvements, because they would not be able to do them, they would not be able to get the resources to supplement them, because there are improvements here, Mr. Secretary of State, which were decided a year ago, two years ago, and by now, when it might be possible to sign the grant agreement, prices have gone up, entrepreneurs have not kept prices. And not least, of course, they also said that it is easy to say from here, as my fellow Member, László Földi, that the municipalities will not die in this, but they said that what you are taking away, Mr State Secretary, they planned when they adopted their budgets. It was designed, labeled, that this money would be spent either on a development project, or on a task undertaken, or on a mandatory task, and, compared to that, if withdrawal happens now, they won't be able to do it, obviously this money is missing for me, which is what every mayor has said without exception. You can trust, very, very capable, people who can manage the Hungarian settlements, who can cope with all the problems, but the fact is that, at least as a help, you do not have to understand the excellent challenges that this government is facing when it keeps them planning the budget and then taking away their own revenue, but otherwise, it expects them to carry out the same tasks and the same improvements. We have just heard: the funding of municipalities is increasing by HUF 118 billion. Well, that's got two problems. One of the problems is that it's not usually a normative financing, because you guys, when you don't have to ask for it, because you're doing it because you're doing the job, this kind of funding you've turned over to such an exit, doorknob, pre-room, bowing story. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Then tell me, Mr. Secretary, I see you shaking your head, so why are the leaders of the Fidesz municipalities telling you to believe I'll get it from the government. Then why is this so? Why do they say that? Then either they succeed or they don't, because we see projects that are being announced, and we already have some government member down here, for example, to lay down the foundation stone, but now they're going to pick up the foundation stone because things aren't going to be built. By the way, we see that even if the funding of municipalities is increased by HUF 118 billion, we also see that it is in such an outstanding, door-knocking, pre-rooming, hair-bogging system, yet it will be less GDP-related than next year. This year it's 6.5 percent, next year it's 5.9 percent. [[12.30]] Do you know how much this was in proportion to GDP at the time when the local government was considered to be one of the largest products of the change of regime, we thought that the self-government of cities was one of the most serious things, the self-government of settlements? It was 15.9 percent, and... [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] Press the button, my fellow Member, and we can debate, by the way, on the cooperative and on the development, whatever it is that you are very happy to do. We went down from 15.9 percent to one third of this, which is the funding of municipalities. So, I think it's hard to say that this is the right direction, it's very difficult to say that this is the right direction. We like the municipalities to be financed transparently, predictablely and in such a way that those who live there can feel safe and who voted for the mayors and representatives. Because, unfortunately, from this point of view, it seems, whether in the capital city or in other opposition-led municipalities, that, indeed, you are drawing this budgetary reins ever closer, indeed, it seems that only if the opposition-led authorities are properly bowing, can they receive the funds. That's what you expect. Since 13 October, the political discourse has been all about where the powers of the municipalities are reduced, what is withdrawn, how much resources are withdrawn, where the epidemic situation is invoked, and where there is something completely different. This has been the case since October 13th. We can see if they want to, if they want to, they can concrete down the City Park in Budapest, but for some reason they can't renovate your Lanchi, because they want to shoot at it, they want to blame the Mayor. It's pure politics. But why don't you think about those who live in those settlements, such as the capital city, such as Pécs, or, for example, Szigetvár? I could list these settlements where this kind of construction is very difficult. They say it's going to make the budget sound that we're going to accept it so soon. We usually argue that Parliament will accept the budget for the next year after a quarter of experience or after fact, but this year we did not really expect that when an unexpected virus situation completely redefines the role of budgetary management in the way that the forces of the economy are, when everyone who is a scientist is thinking about what is left of the world that we have known and how it will transform into the post-virus period, they do not interrupt with the practice of trying to plan the budget for next year from several facts, it actually creates difficulties. We can also see the standard deviation in these difficulties. We see how the two major players in economic policy, such as the President of the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance, are putting forward different projections for next year's growth. It is said to be difficult to predict, especially in relation to the future, compared to this: President Matolcsy says that there will be a 3 percent increase and the Minister of Finance in the convergence programme describes a 3 percent recession and a decline. There is a difference of HUF 2700 billion between the two. The Minister of Finance told me that when I asked him how there might be differences of opinion. They can be, Mr. Secretary, but they're this big? 2700 billion forints is the one-year E-case! Are there such differences in design? I don't think they're that big. We also see that in the European Union, in comparison with the EU, it is quite optimistic, so to say, that the Hungarian government has put down a convergence programme, and we hope that there will be little need to change this budget, and we hope that the forint will not deteriorate further. Last year the HUF/euro exchange rate was planned at 317 HUF, this year it is 356 HUF. Besides, can you leave without saying a word, Mr. Secretary? Didn't you say, didn't the Fidesz always say, "strong forint, strong state"? Last year, this budget planned the euro at 317 HUF, this year it planned the euro at 356 HUF. I think it's a fairly real measure of performance. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-06-12-54	Thank you very much, Congressman László Kács. Two-minute comment, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2020-06-12-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I just have a very short comment. Here, my Fidesz fellow Member has just mentioned the indebtedness of the municipalities, how fantastically the Fidesz government has solved this. And just because of collective memory, we remember the encouragement that came from the President of Fidesz's opposition towards the municipalities, so that they could quietly borrow, issue bonds, because that would cause serious problems for the government at the time, and calm down, and they'll sort it out later. In fact, not only did they encourage the majority of local governments to do so, but they even made a good deal out of it, because those who were flying or lurking around the various bond issues were all people connected to the Fidesz moonyard and who were very rich in it. So not only did they damage the municipalities and the government at the time, but they also benefited from it. It is true that these debts were then taken over by Fidesz, but I must add that since then, if we looked at the debts of the municipalities, we would be in the same place as before. So the municipalities have been forced to do so in recent years, even in your time of government, so it would be time for another debt consolidation, and it would be worth it again if the government took over these funds. Not to mention that when they talk about there being no restrictions, it's enough just to look at the different numbers of the budget, there will be cuts in a visible way, there are also restrictions. Again, the problem is that they are being taken from there again, sometimes in a sneaky way, where the most should be given at the moment: health, education, municipalities, social issues, and so on. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-12-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. No more two-minute comments. Before I gave the floor to the speakers who had been announced, Mr Péter Banai, State Secretary, spoke out of order.
u2020-06-12-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács's suggestions, allow me to respond on four points. Firstly, as regards the increase in pensions, I would like to remind the Member of the latest KSH data: the inflation rate in May is 2.2 percent. I would remind Mr President that it is the government's commitment that, if annual inflation exceeds the advance increase, the government will complement the increase in November, but at the same time if we see that inflation will be lower than the increase made, it will not take pensions back. Thanks to this system, the real value of pensions has increased by more than 10 percent and, in addition, the items of the pension premium have to be interpreted, in addition, the restoration of the 13th month pension, or, in addition, the benefits of the Elisabeth voucher or premium should be interpreted. The second thing I would like to draw your attention to, Mr President, is that you speak to businesses. You may have been talking to businesses who did not give you accurate information, so I would like to say that the Kurzarbeit or job protection support you mentioned is not a loan, but a non-refundable grant. I would like to ask you, Congressman, to inform the businesses involved in this possibility. In order to preserve more than 164 thousand jobs, companies have submitted support requests, all who meet the conditions will automatically receive support on a normative basis. I also ask you to inform businesses that there is normative support in research and development jobs; or to tell them that 806 companies receive competitiveness support for job retention funding worth some 170 billion HUF. These are all grants which are granted on a normative basis, regardless of the industry in which the undertaking operates and what type of activity the undertaking has. [[12.40]] I would like to draw the Member's attention to the draft budget law for 2021 before the Honourable Parliament. There, the elements of measures that move about 20 percent of GDP are determined in a specific way. The Member will see what part of this series of measures is that which is moratoriumal, what is credit, what is non-refundable support. As regards the relationship between the central bank and the government, as a third point, economic protection measures have been formulated on the basis of close cooperation between the central bank and the government. I believe that there is professional consistency in the measures taken by the two economic governance bodies. We have full consistency in what measures should be taken. The central bank should also be thanked for the measures it has taken. The fact that we have different views on macroeconomic projections is the most natural thing in the world. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I would like you to urge that the Bank's prognosis be achieved, that this year there should not be an economic downturn, but that growth should be above zero. This is in our common interest, because then there will be a much better situation, whether in the labour market or in the state of public finances. At the same time, when planning the budget, I think we should follow a cautious procedure. Finally, the system of local governments, the Member, said that there would be a bowing and exiting system for subsidies. [[Dr. László Kács: Van!]] I ask you, Member, to know the proposal for a budget law for next year. The surplus that Mr László Földi talked about, or we have all talked about in the last two days, is about HUF 120 billion in surplus, which will be allocated to municipalities on a normative basis. I ask you, Congressman, to look at the proposal you are talking about. If you look at it, you will also see that all municipalities with a tax power of HUF 22 thousand will benefit from this new system, thus their financing situation will improve compared to 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-12-58	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Banai. Preliminary speakers are coming; first, Member György Czerván, Fidesz.
u2020-06-12-59	Only because of collective recollection, my fellow socialists and Members of Parliament, you have taken away the 13th month's pension and we will give it back. That's a big difference, I guess. [[Dr. László Kács: Some next year!]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The focus of the government's budget for 2021 is on the prevention of the epidemic and the re-launch of the economy that has been in difficulty with the coronal virus epidemic. I would now like to talk in my speech about the agricultural aspects of the draft budget for 2021. Before I mention this, it is important to note that the government, in the framework of the economic protection action plan, provides the most affected actors in the agriculture sector with an additional HUF 25 billion this year to address the economic problems caused by the Covid-19 coronal virus. Dear Parliament, In 2021, agricultural and rural development subsidies could be paid for HUF 782 billion, of which national subsidies financed from purely domestic budgets could be used for HUF 94 billion, EU co-financed market grants of HUF 30 billion, direct grants with purely EU funding of HUF 455 billion, the EU co-financed rural development programme and the Hungarian Fisheries Management Operational Programme of HUF 203 billion. This number does not include more than HUF 15 billion in support of irrigation development. National agricultural subsidies, which are included in the Economic Protection Fund in the 2021 budget proposal, have been set at HUF 78.5 billion, which includes, in addition to the appropriations for previous national agricultural subsidies, the farm development programme, the closed garden programme and the support for livestock production. The planned resources make it possible to provide so-called transitional national aid. This will be authorised by the European Union by 2021. This can primarily provide support for the cattle, sheep and tobacco sectors. The planned source also allows the agricultural portfolio to continue to pay particular attention to the poultry and pig sectors that are not eligible for direct EU funding. We can finance these through animal welfare subsidies. Titles to support the prevention and eradication of animal diseases, the safe transport and destruction of animal carcasses, which concern all livestock sectors, will also be eligible for further funding. Support for the establishment and operation of patrols in the field will also be provided, together with special titles such as the aid against the golden jaundice of grapes introduced in 2016. The so-called de minimis aid should also be mentioned for the preservation of the health condition of dried fodder, vegetables, spice paprika, fruit and herbs producers, the quality production of spice paprika, rabbit farming, bee production vehicles, bee stock, the establishment of orderly market relations, the adjustment of breeding, breeding, breeding, dairy farming, the aid for diesel used in commodity producers, pigeons, vineyards and fruit plantations. It is important to maintain the level of support for these measures. The priority remains to improve the financing conditions of the agricultural economy by preferential lending instruments. The interest rate on the budget available for the Agrár Széchenyi Card overdraft started in 2011 and now amounts to HUF 200 million, as well as the budget support for the guarantee fee will continue to be insured. The Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. the interest rate subsidy and guarantee premium for the various credit schemes operated by it will continue to be maintained. The HUF 1.3 billion appropriation for livestock farming will also be provided in 2021, which will improve the competitiveness and chances of Hungarian breeding organisations and livestock farmers in the face of the expansion of capital-powered foreign breeding enterprises that are seeking to play a global role. Agricultural risk management is very important, especially in the same year as this year. There were very serious frost damage, and then drought, and these days, storm and ice damage. In addition to the farmers' payments, the required state contribution of HUF 4.3 billion is provided for in the national agricultural compensation allocation. In 2021 3.5 billion forints were planned for animal, plant and GMO compensation. Additional support for EU programmes was planned with HUF 13 billion. This is about half a billion forints higher than in 2020. In this context, the national bee-keeping programme and the school milk scheme will continue. In the 2019-2020 academic year, 435 000 students of 2678 educational institutions regularly receive fresh milk and dairy products. The interest in the School Fruit and School Green Scheme has also increased since its launch in 2010. In the 2019-2020 academic year, 536 thousand students of 2309 educational institutions receive fresh vegetables and fruit several times a week. Both programmes, the support for the School Milk and School Fruit Scheme, increased by about nine times by 2021 compared to 2010. The European Union's direct payments will amount to HUF 472 billion next year. From this direct aid is 455 billion, this area aid, which consists of basic aid, greening and very important aid for many sectors, such as so-called production-related aid, which is very important for sugar beet. [[12.50]] I note here that the budget for the new seven-year budgetary period of the European Union starting from 2021 is agreed between the Member States and due to the marked differences between the EP and the European Commission's proposals only in the second half of 2020. It follows that, for agricultural aid purposes, year 21 will be a so-called transitional year. The European Commission has already recognised the slippage and has submitted a draft regulation on transitional provisions for 2021, the negotiation of which does not exclude at all that there may be two transitional years for agricultural aid, so it is possible that, in addition to the 21st, it is still possible that a transitional year is still to be foreseen in 22th. In this case, direct aid will be granted in the current structure and under conditions, obviously with the conclusion that the new budget already covers the year. What's good news is that the 70 percent advance payment option the government uses every year is going to last. The rural development programme will be HUF 200 billion and the fish management operational programme will be HUF 3.2 billion. In the near future, a new HUF 80 billion agricultural investment package will be launched for livestock production and the gardening sector. Forints 50 billion will be available for the development of livestock holdings and HUF 30 billion will be available for the development of the gardening sector. In a previous speech, perhaps one of the representatives of the LMP expressed criticism to the government about the VAT on basic foods, to which Minister of State Banai responded. In short, I'd like to respond. The government's tax philosophy focuses on reducing the burden of living work. A good example of this is that from 1 July, the social contribution tax will again fall by 2 percentage points to 15.5 percent, and this tax philosophy has resulted in an increase in the number of employees in Hungary by nearly one million compared to 2010 in the previous year, and the unemployment rate has fallen from about 12 per cent to less than 4 per cent. With regard to VAT reductions and reduced rates for basic foodstuffs, I believe that we are moving step by step, we have made progress, and I hope that we will continue to do so in the future. In 2014, we reduced the VAT of live and half-carcases to 5%, from 1 January 2015 we reduced the VAT of live and slaughtered cattle, sheep and goats, right, they were intermediate products, we reduced the VAT of pig meat from 1 January 2016 to 5 percent, right? From January 2017, the VAT on poultry, eggs and fresh milk was reduced. From January 2018, VAT on consumption fish and pig offal was added to the preferential rate and from January 2019 the VAT on preserved milk was reduced. Obviously, this process can be continued if the economic room for manoeuvre is hoped to happen after the outbreak has been overcome and after the recovery of the economy. Dear Parliament, I believe that the numbers in the proposal can ensure profitable farming, safe food production and contribution to improving the quality of life in rural areas. The agricultural chapter of the budget submitted for 2021 is also sound, safe, transparent, forward-looking and will help to recover from the economic crisis caused by the epidemic, and I therefore ask you with respect to the support of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-12-60	Thank you very much, Congressman György Czerván. Before I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács Jobbikós, I would like to announce to the Honourable Parliament that Deputy Group Leader Bence Tordai has informed me that the Group of Dialogue will hand over 6 minutes 42 seconds of the time frame available in the debate to the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Please change the time frame of the technical box as announced. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik.
u2020-06-12-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As in the long line of recent years, we can say this year again that healthcare is not going to be the bomber of the budget. I base this on the fact that the government is struggling with a continuous mountain procession, in which health needs to be kept to the surface, with factors that are relatively difficult to meet. It is very important here to see that when we are planning a budget figure, we must take into account all the factors that affect it. These are, in particular, the problems of an ageing society, the growing need for technology and even the unexpected spending that has now emerged in the form of an epidemic. Moreover, the epidemic has well pointed to the cost-intensive nature of the proper operation of health and health care. Even though we go into what nominal growths are, and how we analyse this either in the E Fund or in the EMMI, the trend is visible and the trend is clear: despite the government's efforts, we cannot cut short, we can keep up with the global trend I mentioned earlier, which is either in the three indicators or in the three challenges. So basically, we can't work off the difference. In order for us to have the opportunity to work, we would need to provide extra resources, which are shown by both domestic calculations and international trends, and which would amount to an additional cost of about HUF 500-600 billion for domestic health care, from basic care to the highest level of care. We have very serious challenges in both prevention and curation, which need to be worked out, and at that time we did not even talk about employee wages or patient safety. Perhaps all of these areas would cover the HUF 500-600 billion that could be used to keep GDP-to-GDP growth up and closer to the European average, and with which a truly XXI. It is possible to provide health care in the first century. So we run after the result, this trend confirms it, and on a regular basis, the justification is that, on the one hand, at the end of the year, the current version of the budget for health, the issue of hospital debt is ongoing, there is a continuous accumulation and, on the other hand, it should always be partially replaced. The problem is also the lack of a family doctor, so it is the issue of unfilled practices, but even low professional wages are persistently problems in international comparison as well. These all support the fact that we are actually facing a trend, and the government is really only trying to stay on its feet and not overcome differences. In my view, one of the biggest problems since the change in the system is that the effective transformation and good organisation of health care in a robust public care system has not been achieved. I would also like to mention the fact that GP and on-call funding, which has now been unchanged in the E Fund for a long time, has been set at 140 billion HUF, is not suitable for the role of GP and on-call as gatekeeper. For example, the current system does not allow us to reshape GP care towards the practice communities, or we cannot integrate the effective and good consequences of the telemedicine that we have recently experienced into scarce resources, or just because of the resources that we hold at the level. And if you don't think about the serious problem of basic care, think about the fact that the first front line of care, because of a lot of GPs missing places, is the on-call care, which is provided by doctors working in hospitals on very often pressed wages, or by GPs who work in other settlements. The correction of this would be absolutely necessary in the financing fee, and I have also tabled an amendment to this. The issue of hospital debt is a constant problem, and we regularly discuss it with the Secretary of State. It remains to be seen that hospital debts have, by the way, increased in a very strange way even during the epidemic, despite the fact that hospitals have been transferred to a completely different type of funding during the epidemic period, but we have managed to achieve a HUF 4 billion increase, they are constantly gaining weight every year and need correction every year. [[13.00]] We have tabled an amending proposal for a correction in the meantime, but the first priority would be to make a radical change, to eliminate the problem at its foundations, which would consist of an appropriate hospital financing fee and management, i.e. the care and thinking of hospital management at the level of the manager. Unfortunately, if I looked at it correctly, and this is a small, small mistake, but it is not a very elegant mistake, that only in the chapter justification, in the chapter list, health NGOs were mentioned, so all those who support the work of health care, but no longer in summary breakdown, as they were in the previous budget structure, so they are not financed per 20-20 million, but they are defined as a large sum, according to my memory, around 300 million forints, while so far they have been legally insured and well-named and denominated in terms of the amount of support they can expect, these organisations are now, although they are named, but the amount of support per organisation they receive has not been determined. It is an interesting problem, and because of the scarcity of time, I can only raise it, and I trust that this will be answered, one of the very important things is the creation of resources in health care. One of the new versions of this was the popular health product tax at the time, and the neta's fate came to a very interesting turn of trends, because in the previous years net revenue was always on the rise, which was the income of chips and sugar drinks, and now there was a decrease, so the government is expecting a much lower consumption or much less tax revenue. I would like to ask what is the reason why the government is counting on an income of between HUF 50 and 60 billion from the revenue previously expected for HUF 70 billion. Will this mean a reduction in consumption or, by the way, a tax reduction for the sector? To sum up, I can add that in connection with the program, although there are allocated amounts for 2021, we are still there, fellow Members, that we are constantly talking about planning and drawing up permit export plans, so that five years ago we have been promised to implement within the super hospital in Budapest and the program in. As you can see, what is really missing, and this is no longer a question of the budget, it is a separate Ministry of Health. A self-employed Ministry of Health would be able to effectively remedy all the problems that could be achieved within the Ministry of Finance to ensure that healthcare actually receives the resources and indeed for what is needed. My position remains that 2021 will be an extremely difficult to predict medium, and financial planning in this context will also be a very difficult option. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The current budget for healthcare in such a very difficult and vulnerable state does not include any additional resources unless they are trying to take it from an economic protection fund or an epidemic fund, which would solve health problems in the long term. It is very likely that after the year 2020 the 21st year of health care will again be a survival, a year of maintenance, the expected and needed reforms, whether in terms of funding or in the structure, will probably stay behind, which is a pity because, as I said, one of the biggest problems of the last 30 years has not been able to jointly clarify what we want from Hungarian health care, what we expect from it, and that it will be better for people by renewing it. Dear Secretary of State, If you can answer the questions, I look forward to it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-12-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, together again. We'll get back to work. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-12-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! We often say, and I think this is one of the greatest truths, that our children have our future, and I, who am the ministerial commissioner of the foreign language learning programme, am very happy to serve this future building, because the foreign language learning program builds the future of our young people and our children, while building the future of the nation as well, because it is a commonplace that language skills, confident and marketable language skills are now essential for prosperity. This year's budget included nearly HUF 35 billion in this amount, but unfortunately, due to the coronal virus epidemic, we had to postpone this program. It is a great pleasure for me that this amount is available in the next year's budget on a similar scale. But what we need to see is that the foreign language learning programme is not an element in the system that serves to strengthen and increase the knowledge of young people, but is part of a strategy that begins at the early stages of young people's lives, at the latest in the fourth grade, because then they must start to know and learn some foreign language, but that is also possible in the early ages, so it is already possible in their first grade. It is also true that according to the reports, our children spend 924 hours in the system of public education, so this number is enough to obtain a complex B2 language exam, and this number is more than in many neighbouring countries, or even in Finland and the Netherlands. We have skilled teachers, and there are a number of tools, whether online aids available on the Education Office's website, tasks of previous years, school training, faculty, or infrastructure offered by the digital education strategy, which helps and supports learning the language in class. And it is the same support tool with language learning for prosperity, which will help learn languages outside the classroom from 2017 in public education institutions, with the help of teachers, educators and young educators. So it is possible to learn a foreign language at school, and if you want to supplement it, you have a lot of opportunities, because we started the student language learning loan in 2019, but this student loan programme is outgrown itself, and now we don't call it that, this student loan has ceased, but in the form of an extra student loan, it is not only available to young people who have a relationship with or who break their relationship with higher education institutions, but it is available to everyone who wants to learn a language between the ages of 18 and 55. Here this loan is available for up to HUF 500 000 for higher education students and adult students at HUF 1.2 million. An important element of this is that family support also applies to this loan, so if a mother's first child is born, half of the mother's student loan will be released and the third child's total student loan will be released. So there are very good credit arrangements, and it is also important to point out that from May onwards, this loan has become interest-free. If someone successfully learns the language, they will sooner or later arrive at the language exam, and the government will ensure that the price of the successful language exam is returned to the language examiner. This amount increases year after year. This year we have already allocated 3372 million forints for this task. And it has to be said that this is a successful enterprise, because since 1 January 2018, when we introduced this, the number of young people aged 14-19 years has grown from 46,000 to 61 thousand. It is also important to say that, in this particular situation, in the emergency situation, the government wanted to help those who had reached the age of 35, so that the free language exam was available for them, so that they could take this opportunity for six months after the emergency has ended. From 1 July 2020, mothers in Chen, Gyeden and Győn can also use the possibility of refunding the language exam fee. [[13.10]] At the same time, we also see the need to adapt to the current situation, language skills are important, but it is also important to use economic recovery tools to bridge the difficulties of the coronal virus epidemic, so that part of the economic protection plan is that anyone who has passed a successful final examination by 31 August 2020 is exempted from the obligation to pass the language examination required as a precondition for issuing the diploma. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, 924 hours are what young people spend learning languages in the public education system, and in October 2016 a working group was established to investigate why we are not successful enough in obtaining foreign language knowledge and using our language skills. The working group called for the basis of a research, which was also carried out, and this research found that the key to the solution lies not in increasing the number of language lessons, but in applying modern methodological tools, strengthening motivation and practicing in the target language country. As a result, in 2018, the presentation of the foreign language strategy, the presentation of the foreign language strategy between the time of the entry into force, was already made, which laid the government's decision on the foreign language learning programme. What can be said about the foreign language learning programme is that there is the budget for the continuation of the programme in the same frame and amount as this year. You can see that the program is very successful. In the short two weeks when young people had the opportunity to register for the program, nearly 70,000 people had already registered, were in the application system, and several people had started the application process. At the same time, this process has been interrupted by the announcement of an emergency. This narrow period and the large number of applicants show that the programme is very popular, and young people want to take advantage of it. The programme has been suspended, the resources are available in the next year's budget, and we are constantly monitoring the domestic and international epidemic situation, and, depending on its evolution, the decision to continue the programme will be taken as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Before I ask Mr Attila Mesterházy to speak, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, has informed me that he will hand over to the MSZP Group the five minutes of 45 seconds remaining in the debate. I would ask that the time be rescheduled in the technical box so that Congressman Attila Mesterházy can begin his speech taking this into account.
u2020-06-12-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm trying to be brief so we can manage with time. I would like to offer you, Mr State Secretary, an aspect that has not yet been discussed, and this is competitiveness in Hungary. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] We have talked a lot about the fact that there is a race between countries anyway, but there is another race, how which country can get stronger and more competitive out of this epidemic, this crisis. I also had a debate with Prime Minister on this, and I had a question, on which I said that this is also an opportunity for Hungary to redesign the country, perhaps to reconstruct the structure of the economy, the issues of education, health, the social area, digitalisation, and that, through this situation, we will not only see the danger, but also the possibility. Then I would like to ask how much you think this budget shows this kind of thinking, how much the budget shows with these figures that Hungary will have the opportunity to redesign itself and its economy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-12-66	[[Attila Mesterházy: I'm done. Defiance.]] Thank you very much. It was surprisingly short, as you promised, Congressman. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-12-67	Mr President, Dear House, It's a budgetary debate that we're trying to shoot every last bullet on the last day and squeeze the last of our resources out of that particular towel. Mr. Secretary, I'm so glad you're here the whole time. Madam Secretary Novak's comments really encourage me to be appreciated, even if we do not agree on a lot of things. What he considers to be a demographic trend turnaround, I regret to say, is only a replacement that could not happen because of the difficult economic conditions of the previous decade, a previous global crisis; it has now occurred with a braked foam. But what I find incomprehensible about family support, and in this you can help me, Mr Secretary of State, because yesterday we did not find an answer, is that the system of family tax incentives that I otherwise praised, although it contains a much higher amount than in the previous era, and let us not argue that, there is no debate between us, but it is a taxative amount. In Hungary, as in every national economy, there is inflation every year, and since the system of family tax incentives is not a follow-up to inflation, we can see that since the introduction, if we accumulate inflation, about half and a third of the family support, tax relief, have been absorbed. This may not be an exaggeration for decades, Mr. Secretary, we can agree on that. My amendment aims to set up a public fund that will make the system of family tax incentives a follow-up to inflation. Obviously, we can argue about what the budget space allows and what it does not, and this is a legitimate debate. Let's get this over with. One thing I can't accept is that the government that calls itself family-friendly says nothing about why one of the leading bulls of his support system is inflected. So my request is that we find a solution during today, that if there is a very good construction that I do not dispute, it should not evaporate in a few years, or half, or a third, should not evaporate, but express its full effect, not only with brake foaming. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-12-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-12-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We do know that the budget for 2021 is a budget for revenge for Fidesz. I, who live in the 4th Constituencies of Budapest, feel this repeatedly, since II. Districts and III. The district also elected an opposition mayor instead of a Fidesz mayor in October last year, just as the capital has chosen Gergely of opposition, the dialogueary Christmas as mayor instead of a Fidesz mayor, so the revenge that Viktor Orbán and Mihály Varga had invented and poured into the form of a budget is also hit by this constituency to a significant extent. That is why I have tabled amendments that would, on the one hand, support educational institutions in the district to renovate, modernise their buildings, their gardens, and provide students with environmentally friendly education tools. We would regroup more money for the Pilisi Park Forest and the Duna-Ipoly National Park to create and maintain community forest maintenance, educational trails and playgrounds. Plus money would be needed for road renovations that will now be lost because of Fidesz's vengeance and austerity policy. An additional budgetary resource would also be needed to reduce transit traffic under Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. in the district and, for example, the organisation of drug coordination forums to improve the situation in this area. The same can be said of the service dwellings, in the districts of the opposition mayors are planning programmes that provide service housing to police officers, social workers, health workers, teachers at a reduced price or free of charge, as housing costs are high in these districts and we would also want to spend extra money on community budget planning. I hope that Mihály Varga, Parliamentary Representative of the 4th Constituencies in Budapest, and as Minister of Finance, will support these amendments. I'll be very curious about them in the vote. Thank you very much. [[13.20]]
u2020-06-12-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. With this, the time frame of the Dialogue Group was complete. At the same time, a two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-06-12-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Bence of Turdai didn't tell the truth again, but we're used to it. In the 2021 budget, the municipalities receive HUF 857 billion, but you are also involved in the II. In the urban development committee of the district, they can obviously confirm this for you, as the municipalities can manage from HUF 857 billion instead of HUF 739 billion this year. This is a significant increase, which we can see in the figures of the current draft budget. Mr Mesterházy raised the issue of competitiveness. This has been mentioned here in Parliament in recent months in the context of the coronal virus epidemic, and it is no coincidence that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has launched investment-enhancing, job retention programmes in which, with the approval of the Union, grants of EUR 800 000 may be granted for development. And if the congressman has been watching Hungarian politics and economic development in recent years, he has seen that in recent years the government has no longer given support to investments in terms of how much jobs are created because of the relatively good unemployment rate and employment data, but also the technological development and innovation they can produce in terms of efficiency in production. They could receive support for this, which also means that in this situation, in this support structure, Hungarian companies can expect the start to be more competitive when the world economy and the European economy are restarted. They can gain a bit of a situational advantage by calling off these subsidies already in the middle of the epidemic, by concluding these contracts, by starting plans, and perhaps this small advantage will be a greater advantage for Europe and the world market. I was surprised that Attila Mesterházy, who is the president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, held an important position without any cynicism, did not talk about defence spending, as it is growing significantly, they tripled compared to 2010, but in the next year, defence spending will increase by HUF 150 billion, of which, by the way, 44 billion is wage-like and the rest is development. You should have said something about that, too. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mrs Mónika Dunai is next. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-12-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, We are now in the 30th hour of the budget debate. Paying attention to the speeches on the left, almost everyone's rhetoric certainly included a budget for revenge. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I didn't happen to say that.]] However, the fact that this word was found as a characteristic of this budget, I did not at least find out who this budget was intended to take revenge on. Since the debate began, from the ministerial expo, the Secretary of State, Madam Secretary of State, the other State Secretary and the members of the Fidesz-KDNP faction, that this budget is an economic defence budget, this budget continues to protect families, and this budget wants to protect Hungarian people not only economically but also healthily from the consequences of the epidemic. I think it's not revenge, it's help. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about family policy expenditure in my present comment. As I have said, the term "Vengeance" does not in any way apply to family policy expenditure, as we can boast and think that this is not a eulogy, but a fact that Hungary spends most of its GDP in Europe on family policy measures and on helping families. This is about 5 percent, and not only now, but we have been approaching this 5 percent in the last few years. In next year's budget, nearly HUF 2300 billion will be spent on families, with HUF 64 billion, or 2.9 percent more than this year. Even this year, we paid much attention financially to helping families. In 2010, Hungary was in the middle of a serious financial crisis, but we did not want to deal with the crisis as the socialist-liberal governments did in the past, who passed all the burdens on to families if there was trouble. They took a month's pension, a month's wages, raised taxes, took away the family support system, and drove millions of families into debt slavery with foreign currency loans. Today, not only Hungary, but Europe as a whole, is affected by population decline. The response of Brussels and the Hungarian left is the same: the resettlement of immigrants. In Fidesz-KDNP, however, we are working to strengthen Hungarian families. We help them to get their own home, strive to give birth to the desired children as soon as possible. Next year, the budget for support for families is nearly two and a half times the total in 2010: 239 percent, my fellow Members, is HUF 1335 billion higher than at the time. Between 2011 and 2021, we supported families with a total of HUF 18 400 billion in 11 years. The expenditure items of the family protection action plan launched in July 2019 and completed in January of this year are also a significant part of the family support part of next year's budget. The amount spent on this is HUF 184 billion in 2021. The measures introduced in the framework of the Family Protection Action Plan in two stages, in 2019 and 2020 aim to encourage children more than ever, to support young people's start-up and home creation, to recognise the efforts of large families, to strike a balance between family life and employment, and to strengthen and modernise Hungarian small settlements. The current system of family tax relief is one of the most emblematic measures of the government, which is a major help for young couples with children. From 2019, parents who have raised two minors will be able to deduct a total of HUF 40,000 per month, or HUF 33 thousand per child for three or more children. In addition to tax relief, it is provided by a common system of baby care premiums, ged, ged, child rearing allowance and family allowance. And here there is a emphasis on the common system, because this has also happened many times in the debate to increase the family allowance, and it has not been raised for how many years? Ladies and gentlemen, If you have noticed, the Fidesz-KDNP government not only provides family allowances to families, but also complements this, and is now dwarfed in the aid package that families with children receive every month. Young families have childbearing support for baby shower support. This is an interest-free, free-use loan of up to HUF 10 million, to which all couples where the wife is between 18 and 40 years of age are entitled. Interest relief shall be granted during the entire term if the couple have at least one child within five years of taking the loan. This will further help young couples who are already having children or who are about to have children. From 2020, we introduced grandparents' lawn. If parents with small children choose to do so, instead, grandparents with an active working relationship can stay at home with young children under two years of age. The flagship of the action plan is baby shower support, which I have just told you about, on which we will spend HUF 68 billion next year, after HUF 26 billion for this year and HUF 12 billion for 2019. This cost arises from the interest rate subsidy and the debt credit for the born children and the contribution paid to credit institutions. So far, 74,000 families have made use of the support. [[13.30]] Car shopping support for large family members is also very popular, which is planned for HUF 10 billion after HUF 8 billion last year and HUF 30 billion this year, according to the data available. There have been 27 thousand claims for the benefit so far, and the amount allocated was HUF 31 billion. For the next year, we will spend HUF 18.5 billion on aid to reduce housing mortgages for families with more than one child. This extended option in 2019 has been requested by 12 000 people since then, so it can be seen that this is needed by families with multiple children. We will use HUF 22 billion in 2020 and HUF 24 billion in 2021 to free mothers with four or more children. During these few months, 43,000 mothers have been able to make use of this new opportunity from January. Family livelihoods are also served by the obligation for municipalities to provide food for disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children during school holidays from January 2016. The government will provide the necessary resources for this. Thanks to this, all disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children throughout the country can also enjoy once-a-day, free meals during school holidays if their parents so require. Since 2010, this aid has been raised from 27 billion to 86 billion forints in 2021. On the possibility of having a holiday meal, the notary of the municipality informs the parent of the disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged child in writing, and the local family and child welfare service assists the parent in submitting the application. Several fellow Members have also mentioned this, but how do they know about it? Ladies and gentlemen, from here. It should be pointed out that we will spend nearly HUF 46.5 billion on the financing of nursery care, together with the expenditure of operation, wages and space expansion, of which we would like to spend HUF 15 billion on nursery development, one third more than in 2019 and more than four and a half times the amount of 2010. The total cost of the service for women is HUF 302 billion, which is even more than 5.6 percent this year. Ladies and gentlemen, In the debate, it has also been said many times that a budget reflects the philosophy of the current government, the presenter, the governing force. I'm sure we'll agree on that one. It turns out from this budget that the priorities that we put first in the budget are: economic protection, the protection of families and families not only include families with children, but also young people who are about to have children, young people who are already planning their children, married couples, children, single and multi-child families and grandparents, while the third is a very important pillar of the budget, which also reflects our philosophy, is the protection of the disease and the provision of health. I think that we can be proud to say that this budget also follows the philosophy of the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fractions, and there is nothing to be ashamed of, that is true. For my part, I support the adoption of the budget, and I will ask all my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We often get criticism from the pro-government benches that we do not give the resources to finance the amendments that we make. Well, that's why we found one. If we look at next year's budget, we see that 183 billion forints are being spent on railway development. Let's look at the distribution of this. This HUF 183 billion will look like you would give HUF 51 billion to refurbish the 7700 kilometers of domestic railway lines and main lines, and spend more than HUF 132 billion on a small portion of 160 kilometers. Putting this imbalance side by side means that at the previous movement 6 million 600 thousand forints per kilometer would be refurbished, but your favourite is the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway, this barely 160 kilometer domestic section would amount to 825 million forints per kilometer, and this is only the budget for next year. The thing is, you're planning a lot more than that, because it's gonna be a long-term project for years. This means that there is a 125-fold imbalance. And if you say that this needs to be developed, not because it will increase the pocket of Lőrinc Mészáros with a $300 billion business, because rail transport is important, how environmentally friendly we can agree with, then I have to ask the question, which I asked Mr Mosóczi, here a few weeks ago, about what is true of the press news that they are trying to practically execute a significant part of the wing lines in Hungary; I asked him four times in my speech, with an innocent face, that the railway is very important to you, and they do not want to hurt it. No, the hell you don't! Once again, as we speak, these wing lines, these three dozen wing lines, which we are talking about, will be executed with the schedule that has just been introduced. We cannot accept that, through all overpriced projects, the Chinese Communist Party, which has become more and more friendly with Fidesz, is actually buying local elites to invest in this country, increasing its own influence in Hungary and Europe, so that even in Uganda they are building a motorway at half that amount per kilometer. They argue that this domestic railway line, the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway, is so expensive because it will be two tracks. I'm telling you, they're not building a single-track highway in Uganda, yet it comes out of half the amount you're about to smoke for this project. It could be that if we didn't see any impact assessment with any economic arguments, we didn't see any guarantees on your part, because they encrypted this project, so if these arguments were true, they would also support our amending proposal that would, for example, lead heavy goods vehicles to rail. This would require, however, that the slow signals that flooded the domestic railway would be eliminated, and that considerable amount of money that they would now want to spend on all of this could be achieved. But let's see, my fellow Member Tilki here spoke about the importance of the countryside, with which we can fully agree; he spoke about the programme of the Hungarian village, which is very important. The only thing is, how much does the government spend on this? We see 90 billion forints there. The Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway, and the 160 kilometers above 132 billion forints, would be discarded only in the following year. Where's the proportionality? ? What a priority that is! ? It's something that we here on Jobbik's benches obviously can't agree with. The fact is that we would like to see the funds for the Hungarian village programme increased significantly, because we say that we are at the end of the 24th hour. And when we are talking about these things, about the state of the Hungarian countryside, we may get to ring the alarm bell, it is just that, perhaps, we are not ringing the alarm bell, but the voice of the soul, my fellow Members. And that this Hungarian countryside, the darkness that fell upon the Hungarian countryside, was once at dawn, is still in question. Now we are not even talking about small village syndrome, but I simply have to say that there is an agony-walking syndrome, because it is not a cluster of problems that affects a settlement, the complex and complex problems and problems that can be observed there, but complex walks. Young people migrate and grow old; now it is not about settlements, but about whole walks. Sociocultural degradation, ghettoism is what you can see there. The economic downturn is tangible, palpable, and the sinking into a wreckage society on which I am about to bring up tangible, concrete data clearly shows that there are huge problems, my fellow Members. The population's strength is brutally low, falling under the back of the frog in certain walks. [[13.40]] Let me refer then to the constituency from which I come: South Somogy, Somogy County 2nd Constituency. Most of this consists of three walks: Barcsi, Nagyatadi and Csurgoi. Ten years ago, when you took over the helm, 67,000 people lived in these three districts, now 60,000. The population decline is 10 percent, this is greater, my fellow Members, than the population loss that Hungary suffered in terms of the proportions of the Second World War was 7 percent. This is 10 percent in South Somogy. In 2018, 592 were born in these three districts, while the number of deaths was 1064. There are walks in this area, the Csurgoi, where 133 children saw the light of day in 2018, and 294 died. So the number of deaths is more than double the number of births, and they reflect the last ten years of the numbers I have just mentioned here. So, fellow Members, believe me, accept that there are huge problems, and it is no accident that we would like to see in this budget that much more attention is paid to these issues. So to stop this horrendous demise, this rushing down the demographic slope somehow, I have to say again that there are strong question marks attached to this, and if we see such figures in the budget, then the fact is that this is not going to happen. 62 settlements make up these three walks. Fifty out of the 62 municipalities are, by the way, settlements affected by significant unemployment under your regulations, and 47 would be socially, economically and infrastructurally beneficial settlements under the government decree, but the people living there do not really perceive it. The next thing we know is how much you, let's say, appreciate the natives, because in many cases we see that the great estate is foreign, foreign, but the servants are Hungarian. I'd like to give you a good example of my place of residence, Barcs and his neighborhood. There was no compensation at the time, and it concerns areas for nature conservation protection, which will now be completed, end this story, eliminate the undivided common estates. The fact is that the thousand people from Barcs and Barcs, who are injured, may not be getting anything for this land that is theirs, for the 1,600 hectares of forest land that is now going to be owned by the state, but there was one big owner who is now holding on to me, my pro-government fellows! who received 810 thousand forints from the Hungarian state per golden crown, three million forints per hectare when he was bought out of the undivided joint. So that's the payment of the alien big owner on your part, and we'll see how much the little people living there, living in South Somogy, are getting up early and working hard. I would very much like you to support, by the way, the amendment aimed at finally getting their compensation, which has lasted 25-30 years. I wonder if they're supporting him. Fellow Members! It is also very important to focus on integration and educators as the most important players in this area. One percent increase in personnel expenditure at Klebelsberg Center. Let's see what they're planning next year. We say that a competitive Hungary could only be built with competitive teacher wages. If we do not want this country at the bottom of the production chains to produce low added value, and to be a kind of colony because we are in a colonial position, not just now, not just for you, not for the last ten years, I think you should pay more attention to this. A new model of Klebelsberg should be built in Hungary, and we should heed the sentiments that were declared in the '20s, which you refer to so much as to make the new portfolio of national defences in Hungary, because this country, this nation, has no other option. You have to look at the pedagogist's crest: it has become fatally old. 50 percent of the pedagogical society is over 50 years old, and during your administration, the percentage of teachers under 30 has fallen from 15 percent to 6 percent. I ask you, who's gonna integrate you like this, who's gonna catch you up like this, because the most important ground for catching up would be school. And it is also a great shame, ladies and gentlemen, that you have included a total of HUF 9 billion in the next year's budget, i.e. a half-mile railway section from the Budapest-Belgrád railway. We say that this item should be significantly increased in order to ensure the social rest of the coming decades in Hungary, because we believe that social integration is one of the most important XXI of this nation. The question of fate of the century. It'd be nice if you'd pay attention to that. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-12-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, I would like to inform my fellow Members that Mr Péter Harrach, Group Leader, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party will hand over five minutes and 48 seconds of the time frame available for the group in the debate to the Fidesz Group. With respect to technical staff, please accept this and adjust the timeframe accordingly. Then, from the Fidesz Group, it is now up to Mr István Vitányi. Here you go.
u2020-06-12-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, KDNP, for giving me the opportunity to perhaps say what I have to say. I promise not to talk about the situation in Uganda and not the situation of Jobbik, whom Ander said Balázs [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Are you impersonating Jobbik? If it's a party, it's a party!]] Although maybe that's not what you thought they were doing in the 24th hour. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speech, I would like to address two areas. First, I would like to talk about the budget of the judicial authorities, and second, I would like to present the possibilities of rural Hungary in the light of the budget for 2021. Justice is an independent, independent branch of power, which has been emphasized by Aristotle and Cicero in his works. One of the pledges of independence of judges is that they are not financially and existentially vulnerable. As before, this requirement is met by the budget before us, which provides the necessary funds to cover the expenditure of ordinary courts under a separate chapter. In addition to the courts, it is also appropriate to highlight the other main contributor to the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, which is not an independent authority, but, as our Fundamental Law states, is an independent and independent constitutional institution. A guarantee of independence is also a budgetary provision in separate chapters for the prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget affects the courts and prosecutors in two places: on the one hand, as separate constitutional bodies, as a separate budget heading defines the annual budget of that authority and, on the other hand, the budgetary law at all times defines the basic salary for the calculation of judicial and prosecutorial salaries. With regard to the separate budget chapters, it is essential to mention that, pursuant to the law on the organisation and administration of the courts and the relevant provision of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the President of the OBH and the General Prosecutor draw up his proposal on the separate budget chapter, which the Government will submit to Parliament without change. Dear House, The continuous development of the judicial organisation system is of particular economic and social importance in terms of both human resources and infrastructure. The budget for the chapter submitted for 2021 shall include the financial coverage of human resources to improve the operational standards of the courts, to achieve the objectives of improving efficiency achieved so far, and the material conditions necessary to improve the effectiveness of the case-law work. As regards the investments started and ongoing in the previous year, it is worth noting that in 2016 there was a law governing the establishment of the Érd District Court, which was due on 1 January 2019. The total cost of the investment is over HUF 4.5 billion. In the designated year, the district court started operating in a temporary building, and the construction works of the completely new building began at the end of 2019. Expected completion of the investment: 2021. In the field of infrastructure investments, I would also like to talk about the project with the prospect of a complete reconstruction of the Gödöllő District Court, with a budget of nearly HUF 1.2 billion in 2021. [[13.50]] Among the investments started in 2020 and lasting for several years are the reconstruction of the Szolnok Tribunal and the Szarvas District Court, estimated at HUF 1.2 billion. The design procedure is expected to amount to HUF 161 million in 2021 and the expected cost of the construction is HUF 547 million in the latter case. The budget for the year 2021 is HUF 569 million for the scheduled, maintenance and year-on-year renovation works affecting the total number of buildings in the court. As a result of the amendment of the law on the status and remuneration of judges on 1 January this year, the salary of judges was increased in 2020. The second phase of the three-stroke wage development announced in November 2019 represents a 12 per cent increase in the judicial salary base as of 1 January 2021. The increase in the salary base means a worthy recognition and adequate financial appreciation of the professional activities of all employees, judges and judicial staff of the judicial organisation system. The additional cost of the second phase of the court salary arrangement is HUF 10.5 billion. I would also like to mention, for some thought, the prosecution's budget. In order to ensure the effective and full fulfilment of public interest and law enforcement tasks, it is also essential for the public prosecutor's office to have a quality infrastructure background and human resources. As a result of the savings resulting from the reduction of the social contribution tax, the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and the inclusion of the 2020 wage measures in the base, the proposed support allocation for 2021 is HUF 52 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, It can also be concluded from what I have said that the previous years and the budget for 2021 provide both courts and prosecutors with the necessary funds for high-quality work and improvements in working conditions. Dear House, Now I would like to move on to a project close to me and my heart, the Hungarian village programme. I would like to point out in advance that the Hungarian village programme is a package of measures defining social policy, national policy, development policy and demographic objectives, which in all its basic programmes fully expresses the government's commitment to the development of Hungarian settlements, especially in this case the development of small settlements. The Hungarian village program is unprecedented, because since the change of regime, the first important programme launched to raise rural Hungary and small settlements has been implemented entirely from Hungarian sources. Based on the experience gained so far, it can be said that the challenges raised by small settlements are constantly being responded to, and the government is also trying to create a legal environment in such a way as to allow small settlements to develop even more rapidly through the Hungarian village programme, so that rural life is not between quality of life but between lifestyles. Almost all settlements of the 4th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar County have developed in recent years. The industrious rural communities have been very successful in the development so far, so they deserve a high level of service. I am proud to say that the vast majority of the small settlements of the Berettyóújfalu constituency have benefited from the programme as a source of tender to strengthen health, infrastructure, church or even local identity. I welcome the fact that in the bill on the central budget of 2021, the government has set an appropriation of HUF 90 billion for the Hungarian village programme, which includes the renovation costs of the side road network under the village road fund and the funding envelope for the basic programme for supporting small-scale rural development of the Hungarian village. The Hungarian village program has a wide range of support systems. One of the most outstanding parts is the village CSOK, which is a motivation and also provides additional support for couples who think about settling and buying their own property, who want to start a family and raise children in a rural environment, not a city. Depending on childbearing, up to HUF 10 million of non-refundable funding may be required for the purchase and simultaneous modernisation or expansion of used residential property, or for HUF 5 million for the renovation of the existing home. From 1 January 2020, in the settlements affected by the village CSOK, it is possible to apply for VAT refund support for those who buy, build or renovate their existing house, expand, reclaim the amount corresponding to VAT up to HUF 5 million. In the light of the government's committed family support policy, the number of home support programmes was set at a high level in the coming years, which laid down expenditure appropriations of HUF 249.5 billion in the Budget Act. In many respects, I could also commend the programme, which has contributed significantly to the development of rural Hungary and to increasing its population retention power. It is a good thing that more resources will be available to the most important areas this year, as we have already seen each year. As a representative of the Bihar region, I continue to strive to increase the quality of living of people living in our region with the tools available and the opportunities offered by the Hungarian village programme. Dear Parliament, I don't want to multiply the word any more. Summoning the facts, I believe that the draft budget for 2021 will help to overcome the negative effects of the trying times caused by the epidemic and will significantly ease the burden on Hungarians. At a time when there is a crisis all over the world, it doesn't matter what means we use. In closing, allow me to quote the thoughts of the great statesman, the late Prime Minister, the Nobleman of Bihari Reformate, István Tisza:. We are thrown into the pan of the world's history, and it depends on our own weight on the results of the pan. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the budget submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-12-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During my speech in the previous days, I dealt with the support of the municipalities next year. Now, with regard to the Ministry of Interior's basic order, the law enforcement agencies, I would like to analyse the situation for the next year on the basis of what is described, and I would like to put some specific points to the government, which is not clear to us from these letters and figures, because in some cases we see that there is a promise, but there is no source behind it, or, of course, to give our opinion on the proposal. First of all, it is important to clarify and state that the law enforcement salary base has remained unchanged since 2008 next year: 38 650 HUF is determined by the budget proposal, which is amazing by itself. The envelope for cafeteria benefits has been increasing for the first time in years. Maybe we shouldn't have reduced it a few years ago. This seems welcome on its own, as it increases the amount of cafeteria benefits from 200 to 400 thousand forints. However, within the chapter, and this is true for the chapter of the defence wallet, we do not see the cover of this. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State here in the first round, where, if not at the wallet, is the amount to be earned. I'm not gonna rule out that there's some kind of central common collateral for this, but what you're gonna have to see is that everyone gets involved in it, or next year, people are gonna realize that they haven't got enough money. The reduction of the social contribution tax is also enforced by the proposal in the budget of each body, including the Ministry of the Interior. I say in Hungarian: this source will be taken away from the Ministry of the Interior, thus reducing their budget for next year. I dare say this because in the defense wallet, this source will not be withdrawn, but it will reduce the scope of the Ministry of Interior next year. Due to the coronal virus epidemic, the emergency and the re-launch of the economy, the proposal implements a base reduction for all sub-headings in rem and stockpiling expenditure. [[14.00]] I also say this in Hungarian: this is a lawnmower restriction, a withdrawal, which, of course, can be understood in this respect during a viral crisis, but let us state the fact that this will be a very clear withdrawal of funds from the internal affairs portfolio next year. [[Sándor Szabó is replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] Despite the above two falling items, the expenditure allocation of law enforcement agencies, with the exception of the National Directorate-General for Foreign Police, will be higher than in 2021. This is explained by the fact that the personal benefits are incorporated into the base by the changes received this year, i.e. the additional allowance for professional staff members, the wage development of law enforcement employees and the final adjustment of the 5% wage development provided as part of the law enforcement career model. We don't see it, however... [[Turning to Péter Benő Banai speaking with Peter of Perényi Sigismund:]] I'd be so honored if you'd listen to me for a moment, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, it's not personal. I'm just honestly asking you to listen to me, see if you can help me. In next year's BM chapter budget, beyond this year's base, which alone raises the amount, where could next year's wage development be found and what is the magnitude of that? 'Cause we couldn't find this. Is there such an intention, if there is an intention, then where can this money be found? Really, if there is one, I'm happy for him, just help me figure it out, because you can't see it in the chapter. Unlike in recent years, in 2021 there is little improvement in the budget proposal in the area of law enforcement. There will also be fewer resources for daily operating expenses, because every law enforcement agency is affected, and the base reduction of stockpiling expenses I was talking about is lawnmower-type withdrawal. The additional allowance and the six-month salary to be paid every three years will come in handy for those serving in the field of law enforcement, which is indisputable, but the fact that the salary base has remained unchanged for 11 years, and that this increase is not being increased, instead of introducing new and new benefits elements, clearly shows that the police career model created in 2015 as a career model does not work, and the government does not even try to operate it systematically. There is nothing more evidence of this than the wave of emigration, the over-service and the dysfunction that, by the way, characterizes almost all law enforcement agencies in recent years. Budget transparency has decreased substantially compared to 2020. Appropriations, contributions to employers and social contributions tax, financial contributions to beneficiaries are constantly combined, instead of which there is only the allocation of staff allowances, the separation of expenditure in rem and other operating expenses has also ceased, there are only personnel allowances and other operating expenses, investment and renovation expenditure will also disappear. What is more interesting and perhaps more understandable is that the support of workers in the area, civil society organisations, trade unions, law enforcement, voluntary firefighters and municipal firefighters has disappeared from the proposal as an amount on their own. So they put everything together as a so-called civilian support, and then, I guess, you're the minister who's coming to decide who gets what. In the Finance Act, Parliament and its representatives are not interested in the effectiveness of, for example, the law enforcement staff or voluntary firefighters operating in its constituency, or the municipal fire brigades are guaranteed to receive their support next year. This will be decided by the Ministry of Interior on its own terms, how much it will give to whom. We don't think it's okay. It's not okay as a trend. The benefit of the law enforcement service is the last thing I would like to ask the Secretary of State, since this is a new item, with HUF 53 billion, an amount on which the proposal itself says that it will be paid for for the first time in two years, i.e. 2023. So the BM chapter will have an item of 53 billion, to which the proposal itself states that it will not be paid for the future. That's why I'd like to ask you what this is. It's never happened before. Now, is this just about putting some money on a shelf so it doesn't have to be spent on someone else, or is it going to be spent on someone else during the year? But, uh, we can tell you that this money won't be available next year, right? At best, in three years' time, the total amount will be available to pay the stock. In English, this is what I want to say, that this item is virtually as if it weren't there next year. Obviously, it has to be put aside, but what this chapter has to do with it in this regard, we don't understand. Overall, it can be said that the expenditure in rem and investment is clearly falling next year, perhaps the first year and, of course, somewhat due to the crisis. In any case, especially in the areas of the Ministry of Interior and Defence, the budgets of the last few years can be called a very informative document. I am a member of the Defence Committee, since the government is pouring out investments in a hundred billion-dollar scale with no public procurement. As a policy-makers, one can rejoice and, on the other hand, it makes it clear that this budget, which is its function, does not have much to it in this area. But since technology has been developed and developed so much in the future, we would like to ask you to continue and press ahead, Mr Secretary, because we know very well that you know that there is a problem, that you should be able to deal with the man. It's nice to have nice police cars, but it would be nice if someone could sit in it, drive them, and not stand in the yard. It's very good that there are all kinds of super new gadgets, but it would be very good if the police and the soldiers didn't drop and leave the field, seeing that what gets financial appreciation for their work with this terrible over-service, which is constantly under pressure because of the shortage of personnel, is clearly not competitive compared to market jobs. I know it's something of a nun for the Prime Minister, but believe me, in this area, the return of a service pension is the only means that it could actually be called a career again, and we ask you to consider bringing this service pension back. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-12-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I will address Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-12-81	Mr President, Dear House, There has been a rightly undervalued area from the mouth of the recently pro-government congresswoman, to which I am obliged to respond. We can't leave without saying a word next to the calvary of foreign exchange credulists. When the Undersecretaries plan a budget, the hundreds of thousands of people whose institutionalised looting has taken place in Hungary should not be seen as simple barcodes. Although it is a fact and a fact that former socialist governments have made a strong contribution to this increase in debt, we also see that since 2010 this government has practically fallen to its knees before the banking system. Instead of the exchange rate at the time of admission, he allowed these outrageous loans to be HUFed at the market rate, and in 2015 the EBRD pact was concluded where they signed servilely to do no harm to the affected banks in order to settle the situation of the victims. In the closing word, if this happens, we would like to get a meaningful reaction to one thing: when does the Government of Hungary plan to break the servitude pact with the EBRD in 2015, when will Hungary finally have a government worthy of a nation state in terms of financial awareness and treatment with the banking system? So the question is clear: how long will the Government of Hungary stand on the banks' side, and when will it stand next to the hundreds of thousands stuck on the side of the road? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-12-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Ms Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-12-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for allowing my independent fellow Members to say another word towards the end of the debate. On the one hand, I would like to apologise for the fact that in my speech, when I spoke about the exposé, I accidentally said Mr Secretary of State instead of Minister, but of course I think of him. Nevertheless, I hope that one day someone will explain the huge difference that, according to a heading of the 2020 budget, a debt-to-GDP ratio of 65.5 per cent has been projected by 31 December 2020 and the present proposal already speaks of 72,6 per cent. And the other thing I wanted to talk to you about is that I see the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a very strong withdrawal of funds under the Finance Act. It is very important for me to carry out tasks in international space. [[14.10]] I find it difficult to imagine that from one year to the next, you can complete your original task with a 46 percent reduction in resources. I would like to say that we in international space have a lot to do. And the other is that this year's budget for the Ministry of Human Resources of 3647 billion falls to 3083 billion, which is an awful big 600 billion minus. I can't imagine that after a human epidemic, the supply system will be able to see all of this. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next two-minute speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-06-12-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander said that darkness fell on the countryside. I would reject that in the name of all the good countrymen. [[Ander Balázs: I didn't say that.]] Maybe that's not exactly what he meant, but the sentence he said wasn't very good. However, I commend you for being so aware of the road construction situation in Uganda and the price of renting concrete mixers. It's certainly respectable. Unfortunately, Mr Ander left out from his speech that education spending will be close to HUF 2230 billion next year, which represents an increase of nearly HUF 784 billion compared to 2010 and represents a surplus of 80 billion in times of crisis compared to this year's budget year. That was left out of the congressman's report. When Mr Harangozó spoke about police and defence issues, he also had correct questions and suggestions, but he also ignored the fact that the police expenditure is close to the budget ahead, so next year the HUF 953 billion, which represents an increase of HUF 504 billion compared to 2010, and by 2020, it is an increase of HUF 93 billion compared to the current budget year. But the resources available for defence also increase by 30 percent in a year. This clearly includes wage-related expenditure, as well as development and operational costs. I would like to reassure Andrea Varga-Damm that the international engagement of the Hungarian Defence Forces is in no way threatened, the Hungarian soldiers are recognized in all international missions, be it the EU mission, be it the NATO mission, and take part in a large number of recognised soldiers and even in command in several places. We would like to thank you for your service from here. I think that in the highest international circles, Hungarian soldiers are also spoken of in these missions as the finest soldiers. Their mission is not at risk, and we are grateful for their service. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be regular speeches. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-87	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Thus, towards the end of the third day, when we are continuing this debate, I was surprised to hear you compare it passionately with the period before 2010 and, in part, express your views on it. It is also exciting, for us personally, because in some sense we were also mutually responsible in this story. This development, which led me to believe, and as you have repeatedly expressed it in a conservative approach... I would like to remind you that what you have said, in addition to the intentions that have appeared, I would say, in this way, that among the proposals made by the Republicans, you will remember, Mr Secretary of State, that 40,000 apartments have been built every year. When you say there was a gas price rise, I say there was gas price support. In such a comparison, the situation of the people was better, and in this respect, the government specifically sought that people's lives should be changing, growing, offering better opportunities in this sense, and focused on this. That's when there was wage development in health care, there was teacher wage development. No doubt these things have happened. From a political point of view, I think it is particularly important that the conditions for our accession to the European Union were concluded at that time and the conditions for comparing the data of 2007-08 in a seven-year cycle were established, and I said that the public debt-to-GDP ratio was the same as at the time and now. So in this sense, the debate that we have on this issue, I would like to continue or continue to represent this position. While it is undoubtedly true that this whole thing has been stopped by a crisis in 2008. And then what happened, Mr. Secretary? You know exactly as well as I do: for ten years there has been an unbroken international economy, more than a thousand billion forints of EU funds are used every year as a gift and spent, and in the midst of the difficulties that have arisen, people who have left Hungary refer to home more than 1500 billion forints a year. This shows an increase of more than 4 percent, to be honest, it's not a big one. That's why I'm saying there's something wrong here. Yet one thing I have to acknowledge, and in this respect it is an important lesson for everyone: the 3% limit must be respected. The steps taken to maintain and maintain balance must be acknowledged, but I have a doubt, Mr State Secretary, that this is primarily because of the political intention, you know or do not know, that this is another part of the story, so that the economic policy in which you are given great external help to maintain it, that you want to prevent anyone from looking into it from interfering with it, that you can look into it. And why do you have to do that? In the meantime, the opportunities for increasing economic activity, the use of EU funds, have been used to read a significant part of it in the newspapers today, with people getting rich in the first hundred. Everyone can find your friend. And perhaps you do not dispute that people who make hundreds of billions of dollars in a few years should at least be asked what happened and how this story turned out. Of course, this is done in an environment where they maintain the 27 per cent general sales tax, the world's highest general sales tax, which is not for the rich, let's say they are actually taxed, but for the 80 thousand forints pensioner who pays 30 per cent of the 30 per cent, almost 30 per cent of the budget back to you immediately every month. Meanwhile, what have you done during these ten years? Meanwhile, education and health have been virtually abandoned. We arrived at an epidemic threat in such a way that they were unable to solve and deal with the situation without having to evacuate hospitals with the dramatic consequences. That was incredibly irresponsible. Meanwhile, CEU was driven away from Hungary and used this method. All because, behind that, I say so, because they wanted no one to ask you anything. Basically, corruption was legitimized. I say this is a budget of cowardice and weakness, because we are here at the beginning of an economic crisis, at the beginning of it, and in the meantime, they are not taking advantage of the opportunity to change this situation now. This is your chance to redesign, but you're not taking this opportunity. Yet, we have another seven-year cycle ahead of us in the European Union, and we are even expecting outstanding support, or we can expect that country to see more clearly or see more in a few days. And just how much Secretary of State thinks about this, that includes what I just said, that there is no accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office because they want to cover it up. And then we could list the steps that you have taken against what you said, because, with private pension savings being confirmed and taken away from people at the very beginning, you have created the same vulnerability that doesn't provide the opportunity for some large families, but puts millions in a vulnerable position. And they're doing the same thing to the municipal system, one way or another, they want to bring them to their knees. They do not allow independent, free self-governments and free people to oppose this system. [[14.20]] That is why I say that this is a budget of cowardice and weakness, because they can do only one thing: they want to decide everything in the state-oriented arrangement, and they will not let Hungary and Hungarian citizens otherwise be able to function in accordance with our former values or values. But to support this with an argument, it is also today, and it belongs to budget planning and its construction, the Prime Minister said today on Kossuth radio that the first battle was won, the victory is in the bag. Mr. Secretary, what did this victory cost? The worst death rate in the region, 32,000 patients sent home from the hospital, 400,000 unemployed and nearly 9 percent inflation, which pensioners are facing now, yes, it costs pensioners wherever they go, you can see how much worse their situation is, and add the EUR 370... That was it, wasn't it? That was it, wasn't it? ! And that is why I think that this budget, which has been put before us in this way, should not and cannot be accepted in this form, because, as I said, the result of weakness and cowardice is essentially betraying workers who do not get the opportunity... You mentioned the possibility of normative access, and yet hundreds of thousands of people are among the unemployed, and likewise betrayed the municipalities, the cities, the people who have been deprived of the option. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the opportunity that will be offered in the near future. So, Mr Secretary, unfortunately, we cannot support this budget. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-12-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, well, the day's not over yet, but we've been through a pretty rough week. I have been a Member of Parliament since 2014 and have been involved in some budget debates, since then in total. Compared to recent years, let me give you one great experience. There was not a single year when we took part in the budget debate, so that there would have been such a great deal of Fidesz MEPs during the debate. That's a positive from the experience of the last few days. I regret that you will no longer participate in this number in the underlying debate, we will almost remain here ourselves, it looks like opposition representatives, but let me conclude this debate with a few thoughts on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party. We are preparing a military budget for 2021, said Minister Mihály Varga. If we look at this budget, it is true, both in substance and in form. Just allow me, as a woman, as a mother, to give you some thought. For the past ten years, Viktor Orbán and his government have been at war with everyone they could. I think there's a lot of us in this country who've had enough of this war. We do not want to go to war anymore, especially when we do not yet see the outcome of the crisis that is ahead of us, it is just beginning. We've had enough of this war. We want peace, not war. We want peace, not division. We want peace, not vulnerability. We want peace and opportunity. We want peace and equal opportunities. I also said yesterday when I spoke in the debate that one of the biggest losers of this budget is the social area. But I can say that he is the loser of health care, the loser of culture, the loser of education and once again, I repeat, the social area. We didn't think the government would make such a budget. Every year it is said from the government side that we are unprofessional, we misunderstand the numbers, it is true that if we look at them, we really say that a budget is a set of very, very many numbers, but a budget is always about people, it is about the lives of Hungarian families. After all, I am trying again, Mr State Secretary, we have tabled our amendments to the budget on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party yesterday, which we have done in a uniform way, and of course we have individual amendments with my fellow Members. In recent years, we have seen from the opposition that no proposal ever goes through. Believe me, there is no such thing as we always see things wrong, there is no such thing as a single amendment by the opposition to a budget. After all, I am asking the Secretary of State, because I respect the Secretary of State, since I am a Member of Parliament, to sit through Parliament from the very beginning to the end, and even among those very rare ministers of state who are still responding to the things that are being said, especially those that we are doing as a speech from the opposition side, and I am therefore trying to say that I do not know with much success that these amendments are not malicious, there is something in it that we might have to accept. We're here to help you. We want to work together, which is so often missed by opposition representatives. And we're really closing this budget debate, believe me, we don't want to go to war. The war has only victims, no winners, no one ever wins a war, and the biggest losers of the war are always the families that experience it. We don't know what's waiting for us yet. We do not yet know what the consequences of this crisis will be. I think that we Members of Parliament are working here to do good for Hungarian families. There is a proposal that I think you could accept, and I would ask the Secretary of State to look at a great deal of them, not just sweep them off the table, and support the opposition's amendment proposals. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-12-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I am speaking to Mr Ander Balázs from the Jobbik Group for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-12-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow bellman was just talking about how many people are disarming me from the military and the police. Well, I would refer to the survey of the National Teachers' Faculty: about 5800 teachers graduated from 2013 took up work that year, of which 1900 left this wonderful career, so the dropout until 2018 was 32 percent. My fellow Member, Nacsa, from the benches of the KDNP, said here earlier as a criticism to me that I forgot to tell you what wonderful blessings this budget actually holds for domestic public education and public education. Well, let's look at the numbers. This year it was HUF 435 billion for personal expenses, planned for the following year, HUF 440 billion for personal expenses for employees of Klebelsberg Center. My fellow Members, in the pro-government benches, if they cannot break up with the practice of linking the projection fund from which teachers' wages are calculated to the gross minimum wage of HUF 101,500 in 2014 for years, they should not expect a miracle here. That leaves what's left: the track gets old, a lot of people leave this wonderful profession, and there won't be anyone who's got kids. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] teach him. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-12-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Péter Fekete asked for the floor. Mr Secretary, your time frame is 3 minutes 40 seconds. Here you go.
u2020-06-12-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, On behalf of Minister Miklós Kásler, the Ministry of Human Resources and Professor, I must reject the sentence of Congressman László Varju, in which he says that the government was unable to resolve the epidemic. [[14.30]] I thought I heard wrong, because only a few minutes ago we heard from the MEP László Szakács behind you that we have to admit that the government has passed an excellent test in solving the epidemic and solving health issues. So, I feel and I believe that Hungary has handled the epidemic situation in the health field very well. With all due respect, allow me to give a small example of culture to Mr.László Szakács, in which we share the aid or work for the people. It has carefully analysed the fact that we cannot look down on people and divide aid, but at the same time we see it, and the government sees that in all areas where we can work to help workers who are in difficulty in the pandemic situation, we must choose this solution. The cultural portfolio, the cultural sector, managed to transfer about a billion forints to artists in the field of performing art, but did not distribute it as aid, but in order to be able to carry out a series of cultural events where tens of thousands of programs can be implemented. When we saw earlier that private organizations were distributing funds as aid, it led to a very wide range of social outrage. But when we are able to pay such amounts as an advance, as a labor fee, it can ensure the best use of public money and the implementation of additional programmes. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Attila Tilki is still able to address the current time frame, and the time limits are essentially exhausted by the individual factions. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The French philosopher Michel de Montaigne has a strong imagination. My feeling is that when we listen to the debate, I listen to the debate, the opposition thinks that we are hounding that particular pot in the pro-government witches' kitchen, and that we are putting together a budget that is bad for everyone in this Hungarian society. And it is very strange to hear Mrs Bangón speaking of reconciliation, the one who gave her face to war in 2004, whose parliamentary and press activity was constantly about the ongoing war. Congressman Varju, I remember when I was a Member, when you were the Secretary of State at the time of the Gyurcsánys, when he was Prime Minister, you destroyed the municipalities, you owed the municipalities. So it's strange to hear from a DK representative that this budget is bleeding out the municipalities. I think we think that this is a stable budget, obviously compared to the possibilities, as far as possible, and believe me that the creation of a family-friendly budget is worth all sorts of support and should be proposed. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-96	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since there is no room for further speeches, since all groups have taken advantage of their time frame, the general debate is closed. I now ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, on behalf of the rapporteur, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says you want me. Péter Benő Banai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-12-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the two-and-a-half days behind us, I think there have been a lot of questions about next year's draft budget law. In the first place, I thank you for the positive opinions on the bill and I thank you for the criticisms, because they gave us the opportunity to clarify some of the issues. Therefore, if you will allow me, I will not respond explicitly to the individual comments, as we have done in the last two and a half days, but rather sum up the proposal for a budget law for next year in four respects. The first aspect is that the budget, as a key element of economic policy, always reflects a value choice. The government has been consistent since 2010 as work and family are at the heart of this value choice. I think that this economic policy has achieved results both at individual level, to remind you that, in the last nine years, the average gross wage increase has been 7 per cent, and in the whole national economy, it has been a catch-up to the European Union's average, which, indeed, has not been very successful in the decades behind us. Between the first quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2020, the Hungarian economy expanded by 32.5 percent, while the EU average was 13 percent. Whatever statistics we bring about how much EU funding Hungary has received, how much EU funding other countries have received, how many people have gone abroad from the countries joining us in Central and Eastern Europe, how much money they have transferred home, we cannot find statistics that would explain this catch-up due to a reason outside the Hungarian economic policy. I believe that our joint success is that since 2010, this economic policy has achieved these growth results or the many employment results mentioned, because it is not only a step forward for individuals to be able to live from work instead of aid, but it was the key to the rise of the entire national economy that the number of people employed before the crisis, the crisis caused by the current coronal virus epidemic, was more than 800 thousand people than in 2010 at the time of the change of government. I think that, therefore, the main element of economic policy, labour focus, should be taken forward in 2021. Especially now, when the disease caused by the coronal virus endangers jobs and even eliminates jobs, it is especially important to focus on work. I confirm that we will not adopt amendments, whether on a basic income or on an increase in the amount of aid. This epidemic is, of course, an opportunity for us to emerge from this situation in the coming years. I also agree with the comments made from the opposition benches and left-wing benches that there is a chance that the catch-up we have seen in recent years will continue in the next period. Therefore, if you look at the current economic recovery measures, the measures that we are taking to create jobs or to protect jobs, the government is giving support to a significant part of them, and, again, in a normative way, those who see the opportunity to unfold in the current situation are still deciding on new investments. I think that this factor alone gives us the hope that the Hungarian economy will be able to catch up with more productivity after the crisis and create jobs that have been lost. Therefore, higher productivity means that I trust in the coming years that we will be able to not only rebuild jobs but also improve our productivity levels. Another central element of economic policy since 2010 is support for families. It is clear that this economic policy is also different in this regard than it was in the previous period. It is natural to criticize the measures from opposition benches, but I think that we should recognise the results and recognise the numbers as well. This family policy in the language of the budget meant that the HUF 960 billion of family support in 2010 would amount to nearly HUF 2300 billion in the next year's draft budget law. What's our goal? On the one hand, to improve the financial situation of families having children, not to hinder the financial situation of having children, or to reverse the term, to have children is not to be seen as an issue of poverty. Of course, another fundamental goal is to have the desired children. We have a number of things to do, but still, we need to see a positive change in fertility rates. This indicator is one and a half far from the number above the two, but we can remember that this was somewhere between 1.1 and 1.2. Clearly, just as we want to support childbearing, so will the first married people's tax relief. [[14.40]] I mention this in parentheses because it has been said in the debate that the number of marriages reaches historical levels, and thank God, the number of divorces has never been so low as they are now. I think this is an important element, because we know that more children are born in marriages than in partnerships. Marriage is a strong bond. I think that if the budget reflects value choices, the budget focuses on supporting families, yes, in this economic policy, in this budget policy, there is also room for recognition of marriage. As a second element, I said, as a first element, that the current health situation required extraordinary measures this year, and it is indeed necessary to maintain the preparedness for an epidemic in 2021. As has been said, our existing health protection measures can be seen as successful in international comparison. Again, of course, we all feel sadness and pain about each life lost, but overall in Hungary we have managed to protect much more lives than Western countries in a better financial situation than we do, let us say. This, of course, also required sufficient reserves in this year's budget, and we were able to fill these reserves with factors such as the contribution of the municipalities and the transfer of the car tax. In the 2021 budget, we also consider that the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund should be in place, as until there is a vaccine, we need to create financial and regulatory conditions for protection. In view of the fact that this fund, this Anti-CDC Fund, also exists in 2021, we ask the municipalities, as partners, to contribute to the costs of protection. In the debate, it was said that this contribution, I think, is proportionate. By far, the biggest burden is the central budget, no matter what indicator we look at, in terms of the total revenue, expenditure, or the level of costs that have been incurred so far. So I think that if the municipalities also feel responsible for the control of the epidemic, they should contribute financially in addition to the measures they have taken so far. Here, too, I would like, of course, to express my thanks to all the municipalities, all the local government leaders who accept that, in the present situation, many people wish to make sacrifices in dealing with the epidemic situation. Not only does the government propose, if you like, a partnership contribution from the municipalities, but it also recommends that as part of the economic protection measures, as part of the recovery of the economy, local authorities will continue to benefit from increasing business tax revenues in the past and in the future. I think it is also in the interest of the local authorities to succeed in the fight against the epidemic, to be successful in restoring the economy, as it can mean an increase in local trade tax, which is the main income of the municipalities. Everyone should be reminded that, over the last five years, local governments' sales of business tax have increased by 50 percent. If we succeed in defence both from a health and economic point of view, we can trust that local trade tax revenues will also increase in the municipalities in the coming years. And the government will provide that assistance, whether in the form of a loan or in another form, so that we can go through this undoubtedly difficult situation together. The third element I should mention in relation to the 2021 budget is the financing of each area. After the decline of around 3 percent this year, the Hungarian economy will be able to expand next year, with an increase of 4.8 percent, and this increase could contribute to the availability of resources for the proper financing of health care, education, culture and protection. I must rebut the allegations made from the left-wing benches that the proposal for a budget law before us would be about making certain areas impossible and withdrawing funds, and I must confirm that funding for priority areas has also increased in recent years. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You could respond to us, not just the left!]] In 2021, health costs will increase by 8 percent, above inflation in substance, pensions will increase by 9 percent, educational activity and services will increase by 4 percent. Allow me to add cumulative numbers compared to 2010. The additional funding for health is 77 percent. This is 42 percent in retirement pensions, and this does not include, mutatis mutandis, one-off payments, such as the issue of the Elisabeth voucher, the liability certificate. Expenditure on education activities will increase by 54 percent, far above cumulative inflation; but defence or police expenditure will also increase in 2021, as has been the case in previous years. I repeat, we still have work to do in all areas. I accept the comments on the possibility of adding additional resources in all areas, there are tasks, there are still institutions waiting to undergo renovations, it is appropriate to build new institutions. I agree with this observation, as I agree with the fact that everyone would like us to be able to increase wages even more. However, I would like to say that whether I look at the overall financing of each area or at the wage conditions in each area, whether it is law enforcement, defence, cultural sector, social sector, health, education, we see a substantial increase in wages everywhere. I would like to turn to the last point that I consider to be relevant, namely, further expenditure increases can be formulated, but this can only be done responsibly. The history of Hungarian economic policy over the past decades, including the history of budget policy in recent decades, shows that irresponsible expenditure growth has always avenged itself. He's avenged himself several times. We Hungarians know that very well. It's enough to recall the economic situation a decade ago. Thank God it's a radically different situation. I would therefore like to warn everyone and, with all due respect, recommend to Parliament that, in relation to the proposals for amendments, only one which does not empty the reserves, which leaves the budgetary margin. Only proposals that do not put the country's budget back on an unsustainable path should be adopted. The government expects financial discipline to be preserved for all of us. Therefore, we are calculating a higher deficit level than in recent years, but we still want to keep the deficit below the EU's 3% threshold. If the economic growth that we are predicting can be achieved and we can improve the deficit of public finances within the 3 percent level we are proposing, then we have a good chance that the debt of the state, the government debt that we all have to finance, will be reduced next year after this temporary increase, and will fall below 70 percent. What I have to say here is that I would like to remind everyone that, in the last ten years, the debt ratio was 66.3 per cent compared to the figure above 80 per cent by the end of last year. This year there is a temporary increase, but I repeat, it is necessary to maintain financial discipline, and if this is the case, the debt ratio may be reduced next year, i.e. in addition to additional funding in individual areas, besides preserving jobs and restoring lost jobs, we can meet the requirements laid down in the Fundamental Law, in addition to ensuring the resources necessary for epidemiological preparedness. Together with this, I will propose to the Honourable Parliament the discussion of the amendments and the support of the proposal submitted later by the Government. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-12-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The committees will discuss the amendment next week. Before we begin to discuss the next item on the agenda, I respectfully ask Mr Péter Benő Banai if we should take a short break. [[For signal:]] Let's not keep going, then we'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the proposal on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2021 until closure. The government referral is T/10856. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. [[14.50]] For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-12-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The aim of the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2021 is to establish the legislative and regulatory frameworks related to the implementation of Hungary's Central Budget Act 2021. At the same time, I also stress that with the bill, we are responding on several points to the issues of this year's budget year caused by the Crown Virus pandemic. As you know, the budget of 2021 is focused on the protection of the economy, which is justified by the mitigation of damage caused by the coronal virus pandemic and by the protection of Hungarian people and jobs. Next year's budget will also focus on protecting the economic results achieved and safeguarding the security of the country, while also ensuring support for families with children and the protection of pensioners. The protection and re-launch of the economy and the preservation and creation of jobs in the 2021 budget are based on the newly created Economic Protection Fund, through which there will be more than HUF 2555 billion in 2021. Please allow me, before presenting the main proposals for amendments, to indicate that, if the bill is supported, a significant part of the amendments will be published nearly half a year before their entry into force, ensuring sufficient preparation time to learn about government measures and changes in the financial, economic and regulatory environment. This further strengthens predictability and predictability for the economy and for all actors in society. We are based on disciplined fiscal management, but our aim is to operate a simpler, more flexible, more transparent public finances system. The bill therefore affects on several points certain provisions of the Public Finance Act. As part of the law governing public finances, special emphasis should be placed on the structural renewal and simplification of the Central Budget Act. The restructuring of the Budget Act, in particular by pooling appropriations, includes State expenditure and revenue for 2021, while fully ensuring that the budget is enforceable, verifiable and accountable. Accordingly, the bill creates consistency between the new structure of the central budget and the legal regulation of public finances. At the same time, the legislation continues to comply with the constitutional requirement of the Fundamental Law to include public expenditure and revenue in the same structure, transparently and in a reasonable detail in the draft legislation on the central budget and its implementation. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the one hand, the proposal for a reasonable detail guarantees the implementation of the government's and Parliament's economic and social policy intentions at the time of planning and implementation. On the other hand, it also strengthens the credibility of the budget and its numerical support, as it turns out that the budget proposal itself is realistic. It is also a basis for the government to adapt the structure of the budget law to the powers and responsibilities of ministers and to the responsibilities of organisations independent from the government. The members of the Government are responsible for both the performance of public tasks and the management and use of funds to cover public tasks. These two responsibilities, responsibility for the tasks and the use of the resources necessary for their care, are inseparable, even if there is a change in government priorities. To make these changes more flexible, we are proposing to modify the fiscal support target system provided from domestic sources, which could speed up the deployment of subsidies, speed up the implementation of government objectives and ultimately have positive effects on the recovery of the economy. According to this, the members of the Government are responsible for the activities and management of the Ministry in one person as managers of the sector in question and for the use of the resources they manage. Thus, on the basis of the proposal, individual ministers can transfer funds within the chapter, of course only up to the amount of available funds. In addition, we will provide the possibility for the county authorities to be beneficiaries of the support provided under the programme "Modern Cities" in addition to the cities with county rights. I also stress that when amending the rules on budgetary support, we are not only making the rules more flexible, but also stricter the rules on individual conflicts of interest. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to ensure transparency and responsible management of funds from the central budget, the bill before you sets out a new rule for account holders receiving development aid who have been exempted from managing their payment accounts at the Hungarian Treasury. These beneficiaries will be obliged to transfer and manage the development aid held in their commercial banks accounts over HUF 50 million under the proposal to the accounts opened at the Hungarian Treasury. It should be pointed out that the contractual rights and obligations of the beneficiaries are not affected by the change, as the account holder of the Treasury Account will be the beneficiary in the same way, with the same right of disposal as the account held by the commercial bank remaining intact over the Treasury Account. Why are we proposing this change? In order to optimise the state's funding costs, we will reduce these costs. Due to the coronal virus pandemic, there is a need to provide considerable resources for epidemiological preparedness and economic protection measures next year, and to create this, the government must also prepare for extraordinary public finances. According to the current general government rules, the government still has the possibility to impose temporary conditional restrictions on the use of funds for central expenditure under exceptional measures. In order to counterbalance the recent events, the unprecedented economic impact of the Crown Virus pandemic, it is necessary for the government to exercise these powers to maintain and maintain its economic balance. In addition, the implementation of tasks arising from government decisions taken during the year justifies, in many cases, the granting of greater room for manoeuvre to the government. Dear House, The bill will put in place changes in the special allocation for State asset management in one place in order to meet the needs arising from the application of the law, and the rules on the placement of central budgetary bodies will also lay down rules on trust rights in order to create reasonable, flexible and efficient asset management. The amendment to the Act on the Implementation of State Crowd Investment sets out the rules for the use of the investment reserve. In addition to the features necessary for the protection of Hungary's independence, territorial integrity, borders, population and financial assets, as a basic function, in order to achieve rational, flexible and efficient asset management, a comprehensive transformation of the current asset management system has also been justified. Thus, the aim of the proposal is that, with the amendment of the State Property Act, property for housing or recreational purposes, except for the specified exceptions, MNV Zrt. has a uniform, one-sided property rating declaration. they are subject to the exercise of ownership rights. It should be pointed out that the establishment of a legal relationship by a unilateral declaration is more effective than the contractual legal form necessary for the establishment of the right to property management, and that the principle of responsible management with national assets is enforced more effectively. It also complies with the Fundamental Law if the requirement for transparent management is laid down in public finances. The proposal therefore addresses the problems so far with regard to the placement of budgetary bodies under the government's management and supervision, which have resulted from the lack and shortcomings of asset management contracts. The amendment thus makes an important step forward towards the principle of responsible management of national assets contained in the Fundamental Law. The proposal also lays down rules on the succession of investments, renovations and ongoing procurement procedures and sets out the MNV Zrt. the obligation to place accommodation and its related tasks. [[15.00]] These amendments are explicitly welcomed and supported by the State Audit Office. In order to simplify and improve the management of several registers and data files led by the Hungarian State Treasury, the bill provides for the establishment of a treasury core data register in order to reduce administration. This will also make it possible to ensure the customer-oriented, high quality of service administration of treasury tasks. The following planned changes to the tax system are required to implement the economic protection objectives. The bill contains tax measures that will help to ensure that next year's budget is also effective in protecting the economy. Among other things, the bill also ensures that individual entrepreneurs can reduce their tax base by a higher amount under the development reserve, like corporate tax entities. In the future, after deduction of entrepreneurial costs, the total amount of the remaining entrepreneurial revenue can be registered instead of 50 per cent of the total amount, with a ceiling of HUF 500 million remaining. The amendment of the local tax law was also conceived in the sense of tax reduction and simplification. As early as this year, the tax advance obligation due at the end of the tax year will be abolished in the local business tax, which will significantly reduce the tax administration and the tax risk of taxpayers. Such a change has already been made in respect of corporate tax. At the same time, in order to address the potential liquidity problems faced by local authorities due to the removal of the local industrialisation tax add-on obligation, we propose to the municipalities to provide short-term loans by amending the Act on Hungary's economic stability. Of these, only those transactions require the government's prior authorisation, the value of which exceeds 10 per cent of the municipality's business tax revenue in the previous year and HUF 1 billion. The bill maximizes the total value of contracts that can be concluded at HUF 200 billion. As a result of the amendment of the local tax law, there is no need to pay a construction tax on advertising carriers from the day following the publication of the law. From that date, foundations and associations using state-owned real estate as trustees shall be exempt from the tax and land tax on those properties. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill also clarifies certain provisions of the new law which will enter into force on 1 July 2020 on the right holders of social security and the coverage of these benefits, so that the transparency of the social security system can be ensured as much as possible. The detailed rules are intended to ensure a rapid and professional flow of data between task providers, the State tax authority and the Health Insurance Fund Manager, thereby facilitating the establishment of a secure register with reliable data content. This register should include up-to-date persons entitled to health care and ensure that so-called stowaways can be effectively removed from the care system. The proposal also includes additional facilitations. For example, the individual's property number will be considered invalid for free health care only in the case of a backlog due to a non-payment of health care contributions of more than 6 months rather than 3 months. Thus, everyone will have sufficient time to settle their obligation to pay contributions. If the accumulated debt is paid by someone else, such as the former employer, instead of the individual, no taxable income shall be generated by the individual as a result of the modification of the personal income tax rules. If a private individual lodges a request for fairness in payment and reduction of the health service contribution, the social need must be examined. If the authority considers that there is a social need, it shall inform the district office thereof. This new measure can be a great help for people with difficulties in paying. It removes not only the financial burden, but also the administrative burden, because for those who are socially dependent, the law guarantees free public health care, just like pensioners, students and mothers. The regulation also ensures that no one falls out of the right to benefits only because they do not have a valid domestic address. These new rules are all designed to ensure that no one is left without care but his own fault. It is also in the interests of individuals that the employer bears the minimum contribution that he cannot deduct from the income of the individual. Dear House, The fundamental purpose of amending the law on certain rules for international administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and other public burdens is to implement the amendment of Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation due to the epidemiological situation, thereby facilitating the administrative burden on the operators concerned. Honourable Members, In 2015, the government developed and introduced an electronic road traffic control system to whiteen the economy and strengthen the position of fair operators. To reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers, we are now proposing that only the products identified in the Ministerial Regulation, which are considered to be risky in some respects, should be declared. This amendment is a measure that maintains progress in the fight against the black economy, but reduces the burden on taxpayers on the basis of practical experience, and I therefore ask the honourable Parliament for its support. We also want to streamline the sanctions applicable to infringements of the EKAER obligations, while also reducing the administrative burden on the tax authorities. The bill also increases the rate of interest to be paid in the event of a tax refund claim arising from a decision of the Constitutional Court, the Curia and the Court of Justice of the European Union. The rate of interest to be paid by the tax authority will be increased by 2 percentage points in the future. In order to ensure the coherence of the Hungarian legal system, the Government proposes to adopt amendments to the Act on the Rules of Taxation and implementing procedures to be implemented by the tax authority, which are necessary for the entry into force of the Act on the right-holders of new social security and the coverage of these benefits. Dear House, Let me continue to say a few words, in addition to public finances and tax issues, about other important legislative amendments that form part of the bill. In response to the continued increase in demand for electronic payments, the proposal requires that already equipped with an online cash register be required in any form, but also provide customers with electronic payment facilities. The validity of electronic payments shall be governed by Article XXI. In the digital world of the 20th century, both in a security and non-touchable payment approach. Therefore, it is an important objective that this can be applied at any time when the buyer decides. The bill also indirectly contributes to the implementation of the climate and nature conservation plan announced by the government, as well as to the development of domestic tourism. The amendment of the law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision makes clear the future use of the resources provided for in the energy and climate modernisation system. The amendment of the Trade Act, the Act on State Tasks for the Development of Tourism Areas and the Act on the Simplification of the Operation of Government Offices in the Capital and County also contributes to the development of domestic tourism. The bill establishes the legal basis for the commercial activity of holiday boating, and also clarifies the tourist tax liability of the holiday boat as accommodation, thereby providing local authorities with a potential source of income. The bill also affects the cultural life of Hungary, considering that the antique plaster copy collection in the asset management of the Kuny Domokos Museum will be placed in the property management of the Museum of Fine Arts. The reorganization of the Office of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority into the National Film Office gives the authority to establish the order for issuing co-production certificates as defined in international conventions and other certificates necessary for the international cooperation of the Hungarian film industry. [[15.10]] It can be considered as a family protection measure that it will also be possible to grant cafeteria benefits to judicial staff as well as to deputy prosecutors and prosecutors, as well as to the legal status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors, and by amending the laws on the career of prosecutors. By amending the law on the organisation of gambling, the bill limits the possibility of selling lottery tickets both in time and in space, and also changes the rules on the number of lottery tickets and the value of all prizes to better match the current price level. The proposal also transforms the rule on raffle games by introducing guarantee rules due to the specific nature of the raffle game. In the light of technological and technological developments, the proposal provides for the adoption of Article 21 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. In accordance with the requirements of the 20th century, it allows for the organisation of a lotteries by means of a means of communication and a system. In parallel with the amendment of the Law on the Organisation of Gambling, the concession law is amended to lay down the rules governing the procedure on which a concession contract is to be concluded with a reliable gambling organizer. The bill requires the conclusion of a concession agreement with a reliable gambling organizer to be subject to a tendering procedure, laying down procedural provisions ensuring transparency requiring legislation. Finally, I would like to point out that, in connection with the change in the name of the National Employment Fund on 1 January 2021, we are amending nine additional laws, as the National Employment Fund is an integral part of this year's economic protection, the Economic Protection Fund. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, many of the provisions of the bill before Parliament form a close union with the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2021, and the individual amendments and regulatory clarifications aim to strengthen the framework for the responsible and effective implementation of next year's budget. That is why I ask you to discuss the bill and accept it later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-100	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-06-12-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The bill before us involves amendments to 45 laws. I would like to highlight a few of these amendments, and I would like to approach them primarily from the focus of the local government; perhaps, I apologise, but there is something in it that Mr. State Secretary considered important to highlight. The amendment of the Act on the economic stability of Hungary allows municipalities to extend their existing liquid credit lines until the end of June of the following year and to create a new, longer-term short-term loan, mostly without the government's specific permission. This amendment aims to replace the source of own revenue due to the economic downturn, in particular the reduction in local business tax revenue. The amendment to the Public Finance Act has several important and practical elements, of which I would like to highlight two. The conflict of interest has been mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, by changing the rules on conflicts of interest; the rules on conflicts of interest relating to the provision of budget support are added, thereby ensuring consistency with the law on government administration. Accordingly, the government commissioner, the government commissioner, the Prime Minister's Commissioner and the Prime Minister's Commissioner should not be the beneficiary of budget support. It is very important and complementary to the amendment that creates the possibility that, in addition to the county-righted cities, the county authorities can be beneficiaries of the support provided under the programme "Modern Cities" under the Government decree on the implementation of the programme. I am pleased that this is how we can manage the development opportunities of county municipalities that may be moving in a small vacuum. The amendment of the law on the service relationship of judicial staff and the amendment of the Law on the status and career of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors provide for the possibility of granting cafeteria benefits to judicial staff from 2021 and the possibility of granting cafeteria allowances to non-prosecutorial prosecutors. It is very important to amend the law on the local governments of Hungary, which clarifies the financing rules relating to mayor's wages for local authorities in connection with the support of mayors' salaries from the central budget. The Public Procurement Act is also amended, including amendments to the enlargement of the tasks of the National Communications Office. We also consider it important that the law on local taxes will be amended and that the land tax exemption will also be granted in the case of associations and foundations, which will continue to manage state assets. The elimination of the addition of the local industrialisation tax is obviously a very important thing due to the epidemic. The local industrialisation tax advance should be added to the expected tax by the 20th day of the last month of the tax year, usually until 20 December, for an undertaking whose net turnover was more than HUF 100 million in the year preceding the tax year. The tax advance supplement is a significant administrative burden for businesses, since tax returns on the supplement also need to be submitted. The advance supplement also carries a risk: if the estimated estimate has a margin of error of more than 10 per cent, a default penalty shall be paid if the tax advance supplement does not reach 90 per cent of the final tax. This may increase in the current economic environment. On the other hand, we support the bill on Fidesz's part. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-102	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. I give the floor to Mr Z. Kárpát, Member Dániel, Jobbik.
u2020-06-12-103	Mr President, Dear House, For years, it has been a recurring and not so fortunate practice that we can see that the budget, in time or in time, depends on the meeting point, we also have a draft salad law, which contains everything from space research to tomato size with a slight exaggeration. The one-time opposition and pro-government representative obviously looks at it, grabs out the things he likes and can do, in this way the pro-government fellows, with all due respect, but try to powder the whole picture a little bit, and the opposition representatives often find the one or two nuns that make the whole package unbearable. That's why I'm saying this is a bit unfortunate. In happier and better times, Parliaments did not save time on a theme, they tried to go through the areas they wanted to settle one by one. But if you look at budget planning, here you are, Mr Secretary of State, to see when the Bundestag has adopted, let us say, the draft budget that is acute and operational for Germany for 2020. We can see that a few days between adoption and entry into force were sufficient. [[15.20]] As far as planning is concerned, it may also be an advantage that the government plans a budget or a budget package not six months before, say, the adoption of a closing account. To give you an example of what HUF/euro is expected in the draft budget for 2021. You all know it's 256. Think back about where the Hungarian forint was six months ago, what movements it has been exposed to since then, how these movements were predictable, so you can plan effectively. My answer to this is clearly no, because there are unexpected events and force majeure situations that make budget planning impossible, let's say, from the exchange rate point of view, although perhaps we can agree that there is an impact of the HUF/euro exchange rate on what lies ahead, whether in the draft budget law or in the underlying package. I am sad, and I say this most honestly, because when I prepare for this proposal, and when my colleagues and I look over the press articles with this, I will not reveal any workshop secrets, then I have met with titles such as quotes....that Garancsi can be a bigger casino king than Vajna, a new casino can open on Lake Balaton. It can therefore be seen that, with regard to conflicting opinion bubbles, the pro-governments, as has been said, highlight an important area for them; the opposition press or even the objective specialised press, as far as it is possible to talk about it in Hungary, clearly seek out the background, underlying driving forces, which have appeared in many cases in the legislation of the government. Think about, say, the settlement of land affairs, agricultural affairs, the invention and distribution of tobacco concessions, and, on many occasions, on this occasion, the beneficiaries were supposedly government-wide entrepreneurs and businesses. In the same way, one is suspicious of the fact that in the future Fidesz-KDNP declares as a major interest in the national economy who can operate casinos in Hungary. In this case, it is assumed that a number of such institutions will be able to operate within an interest. In return, it will be much easier to lose such privileges than before, so you can see that the other side of this thing is changing. At the same time, we often run into the fact that this government makes something a special zone, makes it a national interest, and in such cases we have to start from our experience, which, in turn, shows that we are not sure that the purest, market-economy-driven intention will appear in such a case. So, when I hear in the explanation that a certain amount of aid may also appear in the county authorities and their scope is broadening, I immediately remember the concept of special economic zones, where we have experienced what? It means that government funds are considered as a priority investment, and the local or business tax revenue to be paid after that will no longer land in the affected local government, where appropriate and accidentally with opposition management, in order to carry out mandatory or non-mandatory tasks, but typically in the county municipalities with a purely fidesz management are given the right to disposal over certain amounts. And based on such past experience, allow us to examine these proposals with a bit of a shady eye. Here too, I see that with the programme of modern cities, I can basically sympathize as a market-economy representative, so that they do not think that I am looking for the knot on the kanka, but as you have done and have done so, I cannot and do not want to make an alliance. When it appears here that the county authorities are well-intentioned to say that they have been in a bit of a vacuum so far, but now their development opportunities will widen and widen, then this suspicion, this suspicion, does persist in me, and it would be very, very difficult to eliminate it. In the meantime, we also see that budget planning and planning of the budget package have also turned into a production report in recent years, where the government of Hungary has already ignored all kinds of basic professional directives. Budgetary planning would be based on the application of rules n-1, n-2, and the packages before us do not show the comparison that would make budget figures and plans comparable to the previous years. The Government of Hungary now adopts a budget thanks to the majority of Parliament that it has no accounts, so it has no vague idea of the implementation of the plans of the previous period. State ministers and ministers no longer talk about state wealth or national wealth, at least I look at Mr Fónagy State Secretary in other debates, so in the spirit of fairness, we note that, yes, this is common among us, only in the course of the budgetary debate and the underlying debate, the criterion required by the international literature is that state wealth, its increase, or its slimming down in worse times should also be a statement available to opposition and pro-government representatives. It doesn't appear here. So what I see is that the quote-marked professionalism has gone somewhere in the shed, and, indeed, these debates are more like a production report, where, in the midst of a frightening demographic winter, when we are still a small town fewer every year, then my fellow government members say that they are seeing a trend turn and they see that Hungary is turning to growth in the field of population. Then this is also written by government-supported editors in press products near the government and editorials, and they are able to describe Hungary's number of souls in terms of growing nations, when we have to say that so far there have been four years when the number of live births in Hungary was under 90,000, looking back on long historical times. We might as well look back to the Trianon tragedy as to when the births were so low, and we won't find these years. The fifth year, when data below 90,000 is expected, is last year's year, of which we don't have any data, and obviously this year doesn't look much better; there are data from the first four months, which are in front of me, for the first four months, 29 280 children were born. We can see that we can find even worse years, and I have found even weaker years since 2010, but if I multiply this data from January to April by the number of months, then it comes out that unfortunately we are still very, very far away from the desired, hundreds of thousands of children born each year, and while the government does nothing with the migration spiral, it does not manage the housing cataclysm, so even more tragic months are expected. It can be said that in the last ten years the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin have slumped by about one million people, that is our weight loss, and that is the overall rate of emigration, and here, in Hungary, we are less than a small town of inhabitants every year, but unfortunately, this is also true for the divided parts of the country. We see that, of course, there may be boasts about the state of the economy, that packages before us can be praised, but I do not think that the operation of casinos should be a priority for the national economy in this situation. I do not see the underlying line of national strategy on the basis of which well-trained State Secretarys should be condemned to defend these issues in Parliament. And if you can identify with him, I have further questions about the fact that you really believe that these are the most important issues in today's Hungary. Shouldn't we have been discussing how to increase the number of dormitory seats, how to make higher education available to those who have an inexorable problem with the 220 or 240 thousand HUF tuition, who face brutal housing costs, who cannot get a single home? I could continue the line, but I do not wish to repeat the budgetary debate, so in the spirit of fairness, I interrupt the question here, and I very much hope that Mr. State Secretary or his honourable colleagues will be able to give meaningful answers to all of this. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-12-104	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-12-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Mr Banai, State Secretary, said in a long and detailed way what was the details of the foundation bill before us, the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2021. I would like to highlight a few elements, and I would like to discuss them in more detail, because here we see amendments to 45 laws in the legislative package, and as a separate subtitle, the rules on the placement of central budgetary bodies are included in the current bill itself, but I would like to highlight some of the main amendments, quite precisely three. The first of the three is the amendment of the Trade Act, as the amendment makes clear the exemption from the tourist tax obligation of the holiday boat as a accommodation, and enables the promotion of domestic tourism through the adoption of the Széchenyi holiday card. This amendment makes it compulsory for those obliged to operate an online cash register to provide an electronic payment facility. We can clearly see that the goal is to give all the help and support to restart Hungarian tourism, because through the crisis, perhaps we can say that we are talking about the most affected area, where tourism producing 8 percent of GDP is the area where about 200,000 people, 200,000 fellow citizens work for all of us, with 10 million people using their services in some way or form. [[15.30]] We see that foreign tourism is still to wait, but domestic tourism can bring back some of it this summer, because the government is able to support tourism in this extremely difficult period, which tourism and catering experience, to suspend the tourist tax until the end of the year, and to reduce the social contribution tax of the SZÉP card to 4 percent by 30 June. In addition, the amount of the rest card is raised from the current HUF 450 thousand to HUF 800 thousand in the competition sector and from the current HUF 200,000 to HUF 400 000 in the public sector. The government provides a total of HUF 600 billion for the tourism protection programme, supported by development credit programmes. Before the corona virus crisis, we saw that Hungarian tourism was doing better every year. After several record decisions in recent years, based on the data of this year and the first two months before the epidemic, 2020 could also have been a record year in Hungarian tourism, since the data of January-February were already available and the performance of tourism exceeded the same period of the previous year. In February 2020, the number of nights spent by foreign guests in commercial accommodation increased by 11.2 percent, the number of domestics increased by 8.3 percent annually, and the turnover of accommodations increased by 21.3%. That was when the health epidemic hit and the subsequent economic downturn. We have every reason to hope that these numbers will be able to regenerate, and we will be able to continue to boost Hungarian tourism from where we left off before the epidemic. In addition to support-incentive programmes and measures, new services are needed to restart, boost tourism, so that housing tax and programme organisers can provide new services. Such an element will be the introduction of summer boating in Hungary, which is already popular in some places in Europe. Mahart Zrt. The holiday boat programme established by the European Union, recreational and recreational inland waterway transport, is another tourist opportunity that can be carried out without a boatmaster's permit. It also provides accommodation and allows for slow motor rides, a separate holiday. For example, it can be an excellent form of vacation for families if they want to spend their leisure time in nature. The other subject I would like to highlight, which I would like to mention, is the amendment of the State Property Act. With a view to establishing sound and efficient asset management, it clarifies the rules on trust law in line with the rules on the placement of central budgetary bodies. We know and see the figures that the state's wealth has increased by one and a half times, by HUF 6,000 billion, compared to 2010, thus approaching HUF 18 000 billion. In 2010, the value of state assets amounted to HUF 11 650 billion, reaching HUF 17 743 billion by 2020. We know precisely that, in pre-2010, left-liberal governments have committed robbery privatisation. It was sold, distributed, squandered by the state, so we all, a significant part of the Hungarian people's common wealth; the state's wealth became very simply private property during their time. More than two thirds of the nation's strategically important companies have played private hands: energy, public companies, banks, utility companies, state property, land. 190 companies were privatised by the governments of 2002-2010, mostly around 2006-07-08. Contrary to the left-wing period, the state has not decreased since 2010, but has increased significantly, by one and a half times, the national assets of all of us. The national government continuously recovers the previously irresponsiblely squandered national strategic utilities; Hungarian state or municipal property guarantees that foreign speculators cannot make a huge profit from the consumption of Hungarian households, and we can continue to keep the overhead costs at a low level, and we can preserve the results of the reduction. For us, it is particularly important that the burden of families in these difficult times should not increase, which is why the current budget includes the preservation of each family support system, and we are spending even more on families next year than we did this year. We can remember that in 2010 the last budget adopted on the left was HUF 960 billion for families. This is just going to reach 2300 billion in the following year, and the full supply of free textbooks will also take place next year. The Fidesz-KDNP government has demonstrated that in the case of certain national strategic utilities and assets, the State is a secure, efficient and suitable trustee. This fact confirms and justifies the objectives set out in this bill. In the interests of sound and efficient asset management, it is necessary to clarify the rules on trust law. This is what we see here in the underlying bill, and the government is also trying to settle the rules on the placement of central budgetary bodies in a reasonable manner and in line with the existing trust rules. The third subject I would like to talk about is the amendment of the Law on the control of smoking of minors and the retail trade of tobacco products, as a result of the amendment, by virtue of the law, the right to retail sale of tobacco products by 31 December 2020 to a person who pursues this activity without a concession contract, provided that, on the date of the entry into force of the Act, another person is entitled to carry out retail trade in tobacco products in the municipality where he operates. I think that we have had the opportunity to talk about this in this House in connection with our common fight and an international agreement on this in recent weeks, and I think there has been a political unity in the fact that smoking among young people is a common national interest, since we can see that smoking is 90% responsible for lung cancer, which is one of the leading deaths in Hungary, and a quarter of the deaths due to cardiovascular diseases can also be seen as a consequence of smoking. We see that this is a serious public health problem in Hungary, which obviously has an impact on the national economy. If there are public health problems, it always has an impact on the national economy, so it is important that, on the one hand, we aim at proposals, measures and, on the other hand, the protection of non-smokers. I think it is very important to tighten up what has happened in recent years. I also consider it very important to import preventive programmes, screening programmes and school prevention. I hope that we can continue on this path, and that the current small step and the details contained in the bill will also help as few people as possible to smoke in Hungary; and that those who serve young people with tobacco products should be punished as rigorously as possible by the law, so that, in the context of the decline, re-running sellers in national tobacco shops, who sell tobacco to minors and minors more than once, will automatically lose concession law; this was also included in a previous bill. I think these are important steps. I consider smoking bans, bans on any kind of advertising of tobacco to be a very significant achievement in the area of educational institutions and educational institutions, and the role of the introduction of strict rules on tobacco sales, and of the campaigns and programmes on prevention for young people and in the face of the dangers of smoking. Mr Secretary of State spoke in detail about how, what rules, what 45 laws are being amended by the current bill and which contribute to the implementation of the 2021 budget, which we have been debating here for the last two and a half days. I think that the underlying rules have been introduced in detail and told by the government. I wanted to highlight these three issues and recommend them to the attention of the House. I think that we are dealing with issues such as increasing national wealth, boosting tourism and reducing smoking, in which we may be able to create a unity beyond party policy or parties, because it is good for all of us not to reduce national wealth but to grow, and it is good for all of us if tourism finds its way back to the record years that we have left behind, and we can clearly declare a common fight against underage smoking and protecting non-smokers. Therefore, while others have talked about the other detailed rules, I think that the foundational bill is also worthy of support, and I urge you to do so. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Speaking in advance Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party. [[15.40]]
u2020-06-12-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, As I said at the end of the budget debate, I see that Parliament's Members are already tired enough to debate the underlying law, and this will no longer generate a debate as big as the budget itself in the last few days. The salad law submitted by the Minister of Finance will then amend half a hundred laws for some 70 pages. In the event of such an extent, the Parliament would assume that we would indeed be able to review the substantive amendments to the implementation of the budget for next year. This would also be particularly important because the effects of the social and economic crisis resulting from the epidemic, although they are not yet fully visible, we do not see the extent of it, but we do know that its effects will still make the Hungarian population feel more comfortable in their living conditions in 2021, so it doesn't matter what regulations the Hungarian Parliament prepares for them. However, the bill does not have much to do with these challenges in relation to expectations. What would the National Assembly decide then? I would like to talk about two main points, and then I would specifically mention amendments to the social field and some amendments to the law concerning employment. Let's take a look at the municipalities. The government attack launched in recent months against the local governments appears here as well. For example, it would be further tightened up to what settlements could use their own tax revenue, which they would be entitled to, for example, to spend on employees of the mayor's office on income from business tax. Just for the record, these are the employees who handle the daily affairs of the population, who are trying to find a solution to the problems that arise, whether they are kindergartens, crèches or even social benefits. Several of the previous speakers mentioned gambling management, though. Few people would have thought that one of Hungary's main problems in 2021 would be how to facilitate the transfer of the right to organise gambling to the circle of acquaintances. For the government, this may seem to be a major problem, since they re-regulate these real valuable property rights through websites. I participated in the legislative debate when Erik Bánki said in the redistribution of the gambling market that they would clean up the field, clean up the market. So, it was also an interesting sentence that some kind of legislative amendment was brought before the National Assembly by a pro-government politician saying factually that they would clear the market before the two or three players we were talking about Andy Vajna who could have stayed in this area. It is outrageous that, even now, when we are at the foundational debate on the 2021 budget, one of the key points is how to get more, how to better secure your economic elite and, say, gambling. Well, let's go to the social field for a little bit. In essence, in social terms, the 2019 CXXII on the right to social security benefits and the coverage of these benefits adopted last December. The amendments to the Act on social security entitlements can be raised only from the entire proposal. The essence of this is: for those who are not insured in any way and have not paid health care contributions, not after three months, but only after six months, the owner's number will become invalid, then the health service will not be available free of charge. The debt before July cannot be sanctioned, under the new rules, the old Tbj started proceedings before 1 July 2020. should be directed according to the instructions given below. More detailed arrangements will be made for the sanctioning process and for the whole procedure compared to the previous one. In the future, the monthly and daily amount of healthcare contributions will be determined by a post-inflationary automation. So basically, the government sensed that it had to do something about the fact that, in the event of three months' non-payment of contributions, only paid healthcare could be used by the citizen. This whole story is bleeding from multiple wounds, but it doesn't take back the government. With the current amendments, it gives you only time, mostly to yourself, but there are undoubtedly some elements that are favourable to those involved, and the problem will not peak in the autumn. In addition, it must be said here that, with the release of hospital beds and almost the shutdown of the health care system, in recent months, during the budgetary debate, the health benefits that have been cancelled have been disrupted. We've been talking about huge waiting lists, how much to wait for a citizen for an operation or an intervention, but now we see tens of thousands of people lost their care, whether we're just talking about screening, operation or just an investigation. As I understand it, Minister, you have announced that from the 15th we will return to the full, normal health agenda. These canceled surgeries, screenings, interventions will rain on health care and cause another problem. Allow me to give you one example: my friend has thyroid disease, has to have a continuous examination, and these have been cancelled in recent months. Now, when they were a little freed, relaxed in health care, they tried to make an appointment for a thyroid test, and then they told him that it was just last week that he would call the clinic in two months, and that he could make an appointment in two months. So, we're going back to the situation where we're going to have to make an appointment for the appointment. And these missed benefits will fall on the healthcare system that is already bleeding from multiple wounds, and this will cause very, very serious problems. Returning to this amendment: the increase of three months to six months means that the problem will essentially peak at the beginning of next year, beginning of 2021, when those who are no longer receiving any benefits, let us say, no longer in unemployment care, could not get a job, so that they would have to pay a monthly amount now increased by inflation. Only from the current data: if, let's say, you don't pay healthcare for six months, that means you would have to pay 46 260 forints afterwards. Everyone knows that a man who doesn't have a job, who's in a very, very difficult situation, won't do that. Now, since you don't pay for health care after six months, you can only use private health care. You feel, too, Mr State Secretary, that for some reason a person who has no income cannot pay this tax, the health contribution, will certainly not be able to pay private health care. I think this will lead to a terrible situation by the beginning of next year, and the government should have found a solution to that. We have repeatedly signaled from the opposition side that this is not okay. Let me highlight one more point. 13 of the legislative amendments represent a change in employment, one of which I would like to point out to you, which is also related to the change in social security rules. [[15.50]] In addition, as of 1 July 2020, the NAV will monitor the payment obligations of health care contributions more closely and will therefore be informed of the termination of the individual's insurance status or entitlement within a short period of time. Within eight days of this, the tax authority shall send information to the payment debtor which includes rules on payment obligations and eligibility for health care services. The NAV provides for the payment of contributions on the tax account and records the payments. It would also be very important for us to finally get to the point where we can prevent those abuses from being exposed to very, very many cases, get to us, to Members, and I think also to government representatives, when an employee is confronted with signing a contract with an employer, working, receiving his salary, and is convinced that all his data is reported to the tax authority, he thinks that he is legally legally employed, and then when he has some kind of health problem, he is confronted with the fact that he just believed that all his papers were in order and that he was announced everywhere, or, let's say, the health contribution is paid by the employer. We know very, very many of these cases, and there are many violations of these rights for employees. I very much hope that these regulations, perhaps this small amendment, will help the NAV to have an insight into whether these contributions are being paid, or even the employee, as he thinks he has been announced, will find out before there is more trouble. Moreover, in today's cases, we always find that the worker himself must prove that he would be entitled to the benefit at all and that the employer should have paid some kind of contribution. I think that such situations should not expose Hungarian workers. By the end of the day, a little summation. We must therefore regret that neither have they begun to patch up the social network seriously damaged by the crisis, nor do they increase the supply of those who remain unemployed, nor do they help the municipalities; they make the situation of the latter more difficult. While settlements in Austria, Germany and other European states received extraordinary help, they were helped here with withdrawals, cuts, and withdrawals. I think that we have expected much more from the foundation law, the law establishing the budget, and we will not be able to support this, depending on it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2020-06-12-108	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group.
u2020-06-12-109	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, There is much in this law that is being amended. I therefore believe that it is better to focus on a few things and draw attention to them, because, in essence, they are, of course, in line with the intention that they have submitted in the framework of the budget. As it emerges there over and over again, either from both sides, that the budget itself is not just a set of numbers, but also a set of values, what they think is important, then why would they act differently in their preparation. I will continue to say that if you have done the preparation and precisely the law in such a way that, ignoring the changes of the world in essence, you do not offer a meaningful, new opportunity to society, you will only continue the efforts that have appeared to you earlier, which basically describes this Hungarian model, or appears as a Hungarian model, in which, in such a state-centred, loyalty-based operation, the budget offers buddy support, then why would the underlying law be different. So, if you weren't brave enough to face this and deal with it, if you weren't strong enough to prepare a presentation of this, then I have nothing to say but that it is the result of the work of the same cowardly and weak government, which is here before us in this foundational law. To emphasise this once again, I am sure that your choice of value is worth highlighting a few examples, but it must be said unacceptable in this form. Therefore, if I give you some examples, I think that it will be relatively quickly understandable or acceptable, or, if not, to you, but it will certainly support me. In advance or as a first thought, I would like to quote Minister Mihály Varga's statement in the exposé that he is obviously launching a debate between the municipalities that the rich municipalities are paying the poor. So to what I mentioned earlier, that in your Hungarian model, discord and the solution is to actually create and create opponents and enemies, here's the example, Minister said this in his own sentence, and in this bill they do for him. Therefore, there is no doubt that they have promised, so they will do so, that the municipalities that should focus more on cooperation instead of choosing this direction. They also found a way, partly in the budget and partly in this law. This law also contributes to the fact that, in fact, the uncertainty that means planning itself, planning the budget, you may be very tired of it, but it is still a fact that, in the absence of data for 2019, which is not accurate, I could say that it can be seen as actually secret, which the government has supplemented by redesigning the budget, this essentially lost the compass character that would otherwise give other economic operators the opportunity. I think that this also contributes to the unacceptable budget, in fact in many respects the economic players must bear it, and the buddy economy I mentioned is, of course, looking forward to what they can strike at. Well, there's an example in this law. So I think that if you were to think for a moment about democratic standards, you would not be able to bring such a budget base or the budget itself here at this time, and you would not be able to bring it here under such circumstances, essentially in the absence of the 2019 accounts or the accounts, not knowing the specific figures for 2020. And they won't even answer that, by the way, the Ministry of Finance is at the forefront in this regard, which refuses to answer questions. Accordingly, I feel free to say that they are essentially encrypting what you are doing. The next part of this story is what we call it, and in this way they jump a big one, and they claim that everything will be fine in 2021. Let us add that I hope that Hungary will be lucky to have a fresh start in its economic life with the smallest possible decline and the fastest economic recovery. Of course, the European Union can also make a big contribution to this success if it provides Hungary with much more and much better opportunities to use resources than before. [[16.00]] So in this way, I think, and I don't want to hurt the budget preparation, but the point is that this form of budget planning is ridiculous. You know perfectly well that this is a screen that is being pushed up to us, and even the propaganda machine is projecting a movie onto it, and people can watch it, while shaping the budget behind the screen, in this case, they are now using this law to obtain a legitimate mandate or to find legally solutions to the problem that is troubling you. Among these problems, it is certainly there that I think it is extremely alamusian or insidious to say: it is insidious and cowardly to take opportunities away from the local authorities, or to limit their possibilities in essence in this law, which is further strengthened. I could also say that, like the Bible's ten plagues, they are trying to figure out where and how the municipalities could be destroyed, and they can find even the smallest solutions, if a public building or foundation had to pay some kind of tax there, then you will abolish it by law with immediate effect, and they will make or want to contribute to the impossible situation. This is, of course, difficult for the municipalities, but I can say that I trust the saying that what does not kill makes me even stronger. Then, I think you will also feel that the social strength and support of these municipalities is something that goes against your state-centred solutions; especially if the people in these municipalities, the people in these places, but we could say that the Hungarian citizens notice and are very happy that the public actors around Andy Vajna's legacy are also happy that the war of succession is over. The outcome of this is equally encrypted, and we do not know what happened, but Minister Mihály Varga personally participated in it, and it would be good if he once told this story about how it turned out. I think that the decisions related to this will already present immediate benefits to the new players. Well, we congratulate you on that, but I'm using that word again to say that they come here cowardly and in a false way make a proposal that coincides with what the Gambling Company is doing. He's been doing it lately. If you look at the last few months, when you're specifically promoting with great energy any opportunity that vulnerable people might otherwise find their only hope in a lottery or anything, then you're taking advantage of the hope that you're doing everything you can to create new opportunities. I stress that I am not talking in itself about market opportunities or restrictions on them, but about the deceitful talk that you have said in order to nationalise the gambling market and, to be exact, the casino market. Then it was you who did this, and now all this is being abused, and with public power people have become vulnerable because, for example, they do not actually provide wage support, and now they have put a lot of businesses and workers struggling with the crisis on the brink of bankruptcy, while the new winners of the gambling industry will be given a chance again, and they will certainly continue their good cooperation with you as a reliable undertaking. I would like to refer to the section of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. I'm a big friend of the Chief Prosecutor's. I wish that the use of cafeteria would be beneficial to both the Attorney General and to everyone, and that would certainly be suitable for many things. I have referred to the Economic Stability Act, the impossibility of local governments, and I have stressed this. I continue to think that you are taking a step towards the municipalities here to limit their opportunities, while introducing a rule that really needs to be solved by the problem that you claim... sorry! While the Fidesz municipalities were previously indebted and took out a lot of loans, and you had to consolidate it, and now the situation is the same, more than HUF 1200 billion of supplier debt has been accumulated, so the municipalities do not have a loan debt, but have the same debt, and instead of paying it, they are now encouraging the municipalities to take out loans with this rule. If they did not have a bolder solution, I would like to say with respect that the next government will once again be responsible for how it will resolve the consolidation of the municipalities that you are indebted to. On the free software of the Hungarian Tourism Agency, if you will allow me, I would mention that this is the same as the free news service provided. So, according to the gift of the Greeks, never believe that you would actually do good. Here, in connection with the data transmission, I see that you feel the need to know everything about these places. Finally, let me just say a few more words about entitlement to social security, just because I can easily say that what you are presenting is most of the things that we have called attention to. Therefore, we consider it an important step and unacceptable that people are being excluded or ignored the possibility of being excluded from the service, and then you have to say that it is okay for them to go to Taigetos and then what happens to them is none of your business. But it's not like that! Moreover, it would not be harmful for the Ministry of Finance to clarify its records and, let us say, for those working abroad, to have access to their data and accurate information. Overall, we do not agree with this bill, and this bill will help you manage the budget of cowardice and weakness in some way, but we do not want that. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-110	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply will now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-06-12-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank you all for the struggles of this extremely difficult week, because, in addition to the budget and its foundation law, Parliament has negotiated countless laws for this long week, Monday to Friday, and I am sure that everyone is quite tired, and we are living the last hours here in this room. Everyone would think that the law on the basis of which the budget is based would really provide a basis for the budget, and there are basically rules in it that would really require the budget submitted by the government to be adequate both in terms of financial, legal and structural terms. [[16.10]] This salad law amends 45 laws, but with the best goodwill it could be said that it is about 29 that has anything to do with the budget. This law is the same salad law that the government has been putting in from week to week for ten years now. These salad laws really have something to do with everything. If citizens could see the way the legislation is being done here, they would feel very bad, as this is not what they are supposed to do. I will give you just one example: for example, even the amendment of the Postal Law is in this law establishing the budget, but there is no line of things that the budget has to do with. Allow me, for a few sentences, to return to the budget in the sense that the public must also know that, while the government has projected foreign exchange rates in the budget for this year and in the budgets for the previous year at least, in terms of public debt, and that is how the budget law was adopted, this is already missing from the current budget. But that's no wonder, because for example, for this year's budget, we managed to include an exchange rate of HUF 320.9 per euro in the budget of the 20th, while it barely went below 350 this year. So everyone can imagine how well our government's activities are in terms of the calculation of public debt. There are some extremely outrageous rules in this legislative package, and I would like to talk about them. Article 2 § 5 amends the law on local taxes. A so-called 36/a. It introduces a section, and I will read it literally, because if the population sees it, at least they know what is happening here. The revenue from the local business tax established by the municipality of the municipality may be used first, in the case of the Municipality of Metropolitan City, as defined in a separate law, to finance social benefits falling within the competence of the body of representatives of the municipality, in addition to the amount necessary to carry out the local community transport task. The revenue from the local business tax established by the municipality cannot be used to finance contributions and social contributions for employees in the municipal office's staff and related employers. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I translate: so the government believes that it will tell the municipalities what the local business tax can be used for. I would only understand that the business tax does not finance the agency's personal benefits, but then we have to assume that normative subsidies are suitable for paying decent income to the local government's employees. Because if normative subsidies don't serve a decent income, there's got to be something to make up for it. I may even understand that you can use it to fund social care tasks. But what does the development of transport have to do with the business tax? On the other hand, in the price of fuels, in the car tax, in the various tolls and in all the tax and tariff revenues that the state collects from citizens and organisations each year, Community transport could be improved perfectly. Not to mention that transport and the road network always affect other settlements, and even most of the traffic conditions in a settlement are not caused by residents. Let's take a look at it when there's huge traffic going through a small settlement, because there are no bypasses. So what would I expect if the government thought it had anything to do with the use of business tax? I would expect, for example, the local business tax to enable the municipality to create social jobs; not social aid, social jobs. I would expect you to be able to support micro and small businesses, since there are small settlements that could not exist without small and micro enterprises. Now, this view is not reflected in the government's policy at all. It is quite specific, by the way, and several people have spoken about the concession issue that is in this law establishing the budget. Well, of course, this doesn't have anything to do with the budget, unless the concession charges are paid, but all the fees and taxes laws are not amended in this package of legislation. What's this about? It is a matter of the European Court of Justice ruling that the system of obtaining concession rights was unacceptable, that someone was blamed for being a reliable gambler no matter who he was, and that he was then able to acquire those rights without applying. That was nothing but democratic and not rule of law. Then the European Court of Justice said that even if they want to use this set of conditions as a reliable gambling organizer at all costs, there is still a need to establish a serious guarantee procedure with very little potential for abuse. That's what this new procedure through a number of paragraphs is all about. I very much hope that not only friends close to the Prime Minister can prevail in this system. In this package of legislation, there are many new term technicians, there are a lot of legal harmonisation, there are many new terms introduced into legislation, so most of them are legal in nature, but they have a pearl that is outrageous to me. This is an amendment to the Trade Act. It says that the trader under the regulation on the technical requirements of cash registers, the making available, use, servicing of cash registers for the issue of receipts and the provision of data recorded with the cash register to the tax authority is obliged to provide the consumer with the possibility of electronic payment and its continued availability. Unacceptable! There are countless representatives of small towns with Fidesz and KDNP. It is unacceptable for the government to allow the small shop in the settlements of 200 people to provide this expensive service, usually paying 80-90 percent exclusively with cash, and that small number of traffic would still be burdened with it. This is unacceptable! You talk about rural development, you talk about how small settlements should be supported when you want to burden one or two entrepreneurs staying there? ! Make me think about it. I don't accept it! I must say that I am going to create a serious social resistance to this, because it is not true that you cannot bear to live and let live. It's a fundamental condition. In a big city of two million people, there should be electronic payment opportunities everywhere, but 80 percent of small settlements cannot accept that. Then there are the provisions of the local government for guardianship. That's a shock. One of the pearls is next. He says:. To the amount of the mayor's fee and fee, the State grants local authorities the aid from the central budget to the extent laid down in the Act on the Central Budget of Hungary, taking into account the tax capacity of the local government per capita. What is tax power per capita? Who's gonna determine that? So, if there's a settlement where a little more people live on social assistance, minimum wage, or even because the area is behind, low incomes, that mayor gets less wages? Does anyone really say that's acceptable? ! Citizens in Hungary have no idea what they are doing to local governments. And what does it even mean to pay what kind of salary for tax power? Who's gonna figure this out? Who's gonna figure out the methodology for this? Have you discussed this with the Hungarian citizens who, on 13 October, went to choose municipal representatives and mayors? Hardly. I thought, by the way, that if Parliament had made such rules in the last eight years, then the Fidesz MEPs would have taken a million people out on the street. Well, it would have been a revolution, please. Just give me a second to think. Then the following is added: the legislation on Hungary's economic stability is added. It is written that the municipality may enter into one transaction in the reference year, the duration of which shall not exceed 30 June following the reference year. Then it is stipulated that the maximum percentage of tax revenue may correspond to the rate of that transaction. You can't imagine what guardianship provisions there are in this law! [[16.20]] You say to 9 million 700 thousand citizens that you have chosen a mayor, a body of representatives, even though you have trusted a multitude of people and I am talking about the Fidesz municipalities, not just the opposition, we do not consider these people worthy of deciding what obligations they will make; we do not consider them to be adult, responsible people so that they can decide how much they can spend from resources on the tasks of the local government, on developments, and on how much they can live on the settlements? What do you think? I really do. Then what does that mean when there are parliamentary elections and people choose Prime Minister, Members and Government, then who should be guardian? Then who should we appoint as guardians to tell the Prime Minister what kind of deal he can do for how long? God or who do we call here? ! Well, really, what do you think you're doing? ! People trust politicians, they get elected by honest people, because otherwise they wouldn't be able to run for office, and then you tell them that you can only do this deal and that deal for that amount. And, uh, let's just say, when the Fidesz mayors used foreign exchange loans to indebte the local governments, right, and they paid it out of taxpayers' money, all at the last penny, so that there was no reason for it, then why wasn't there any liability? Tell me, how many mayors are there who are still mayors and who are involved in that foreign exchange loan debt? Because the simple poor man took on a foreign exchange loan because he didn't see the consequences, we can imagine, but for a local government to sign such a contract, at least eight or ten people needed guardianship. I imagine that if that government had told the mayors in the last eight years that if-if you were planning on borrowing, then some government office and finance minister and my mother knew who their contribution would have been, what would you have done? ! Well, maybe they would have set Parliament on fire. They would have been so outraged that they didn't think you were grown-up enough. Why don't you think about it? In the end, I would like to say one more thing because this week has been said quite often in the budget debate, and this is 9 percent of corporate tax. The Secretary of State of the Ministry and everyone always regard this as a miracle, just, you know, I was at the OECD conference in Paris when it was reported that the OECD was charged with setting up an international tax system because there are countries in the context of cross-border services, such as Hungary, I thought I was going underground, whose preferential corporation tax did not pay taxes where the activity is carried out. And for example, they told us how many branch companies there are in Hungary, world companies registered in studio apartments, there are no employees here, there is no activity, just because there is a 9 percent tax here, and how harmful it is for the other countries, where they spend, where the environment is burdened, where the activity is taking place, and we are stealing by 9 percent the taxes of people who do not do anything in Hungary. And for example, they want to establish this international tax law agreement for us, so that they can pay taxes and corporate taxes on cross-border services where the activity is created. So what I would just like to say is that you may consider this a great achievement in the country, but it is just that it is quite damaging to our international authority, and, for example, we are one of the causes of the desire to introduce such taxes. Not to mention, please, the most important thing is that whoever is responsible for Hungary's economic activity must pay for this in Hungary, because it is here that it validates its results and profits, and companies that have come here only to live, and we would like to know them outside. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-12-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I now give the floor to Speaker Varga Simeon, from here to the pulpit.
u2020-06-12-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. As the spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and also the Chairman of the Budget Sub-Committee, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is T/10856. At its meeting held at 10 a.m. on 8 June 2020, the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2021 was put on the agenda and discussed. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution, i.e. house rule 32. § 2 by 13 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against, has decided that the bill has the whole, i.e. 1-145. The Committee would like to hold a detailed debate on the subject. Although the other provisions of the bill do not directly affect nationalities and their municipalities and institutions in Hungary, it can be said that the rapid and effective responses to the extraordinary situation and the adaptation of the 2021 budget to specific challenges create stability and security, which, together with its sub-schemes, can keep the whole system on track for growth. The provisions on the functioning of municipalities in emergency situations have also been applied by national authorities to ensure their smooth and orderly functioning of their institutions, thus reducing the risk of virus infection and preventing its spread. In the event of an epidemiological emergency, the government has taken exceptional measures to significantly reduce both the spread of the disease and the extent of the disadvantages suffered by the economy. This has a positive impact on Hungary as a whole, including the nationalities living here, and it greatly increases confidence in the government. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As in yesterday's speech, T/10710. As regards the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2021, I have indicated that we would like to examine the proposals raised by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary regarding the provisions of the draft general government law which have not now been discussed as regards the residual carry-over and the way in which the subsidies are settled. Finally, allow me to thank both the government and Parliament for their exemplary support to preserve the national identity of national minorities in Hungary, which has been manifested in recent years both through the continuous increase in budget support and through the multi-level support of national education and culture. Ensuring the necessary resources for the balanced and stable functioning of national authorities and their institutions contributes to the preservation of nationalities in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2020-06-12-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is unfortunate to speak after my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm, because her comment in a very dramatic tone is difficult to top up that she has left. I haven't been to the OECD Conference in Paris. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] However, at the time I negotiated the debt settlement of 23 or 24 indebted cities with different party positions. Please believe, my departed fellow Member, that this was not done as you say, and not with such content. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2021, prepared in the care of the financial portfolio, also includes amendments to a number of laws that fall within the remit of the Minister without a portfolio of national assets. The proposals are indirectly linked to the implementation of the Central Budget Act. Allow me to say a few words about gambling management in the first round, in terms of content, divided into three groups. [[16.30]] The first category includes the annual XXXIV on the organisation of gambling. amendments to the Act. The aim is to ensure consistency between the Gambling Act and the Ministerial Decree issued for its implementation with the 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. In view of the fact that the Ministerial Regulation does not provide for additional procedural provisions. In this context, the proposal includes an enabling provision in the Gambling Act in order to establish procedural rules for the establishment and extension of personal conformity, currently partly at ministerial level, by means of a government regulation. In relation to personal conformity, it clarifies the cases which give rise to refusal of authorisation and changes the frequency of the procedure for re-assessment of personal conformity from one year to three years. The other set of amendments shall consist of the necessary clarification of the specifications for each type of toy in the light of the application experience and technical and technical progress. In this context, the proposal amends the conditions for the organisation of raffles by aligning the rules on the value of all prizes with the current price level, allowing the implementation of the raffle without the presence of the notary without the appointment of the three-member lottery committee responsible for the conduct of the draw. The proposed amendment will make the organisation of raffle draw more transparent, given that such games are announced in a very low number in addition to the rules in force. Technical and technical progress justifies the amendment of the prohibition on the organisation of gambling by means of a means of communication and a system Only raffle games may be organised if they are adopted. This opens up the possibility of organizing other games that fall within the scope of the lottery, such as the well-known scratching lottery ticket online. This includes changing the concept of remote gambling, also known as online sports betting, so that in addition to horse racing and sports events, there can be online betting. The third set of amendments is the provisions of the laws on concessions and the organisation of gambling, which have been adopted recently by the European Court of Justice this afternoon, and have been drawn up in the light of its judgments concerning Hungarian gambling legislation, and are aimed at strengthening the planning of state revenues for several years. The proposal includes the establishment, at the legal level, of the rules governing the procedure for the conclusion of a concession contract with a trusting gambling organizer and the clarification of the legal concept of a trusting gaming organizer. The proposal allows the Minister for State Monitoring of Gambling Management to conduct a tender procedure for a priority national economy interest, to issue a concession tender where half of the original duration of the concession contract previously concluded for a given gaming activity has passed, thereby ensuring the existence of continuous budgetary revenue resulting from the concession. The proposal sets out the maximum possible duration of the concession contract for the management of gambling in 35 years, in line with the general concession period laid down in the National Property Act. Dear House, The amendment of the State Property Act and the rules on the placement of central government bodies facilitate the creation of reasonable, flexible and efficient management of assets, with a partial transformation of the current asset management system. The government has set itself the objective of reviewing public property assets within the framework of public asset management and of defining the assets required for the placement of budgetary bodies, the provision of public tasks, and which are assets that can be sold or otherwise used. The priority objective of the proposal is to better enforce the principle of responsible management of national assets by establishing a legal relationship between the establishment of budgetary bodies under the government's management and supervision on the basis of a unilateral declaration. The proposal introduces and establishes detailed rules for a new item providing a flexible provision to the owner of the property for the purpose of public housing. The scope covers buildings for the placement of the work organisation of the budgetary bodies and, in most cases, property for the office function, as well as buildings for education, recreation and other purposes not required for the provision of basic activity. The legal relationship for the use of real estate for the purpose of public housing is established for the first time within the administrative territory of Budapest in respect of the housing and recreational properties of the budgetary bodies under the government's management or supervision, and thereafter in respect of the properties located outside it. Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. its sole task is to ensure the placement of budgetary bodies under the government's direction or supervision, in particular through the use of state property or non-state property in the absence of adequate public property. The relationship is established by issuing a unilateral declaration by the MNV, i.e. the designation document. One of the most important elements of the public property usage relationship is that MNV also provides for the operation of the real estate. MNV Zrt. The operational tasks related to the professional operation of a given budgetary body shall be without prejudice to the provision of office supplies, furniture, and shall continue to be performed by the body designated for this purpose or by the budgetary bodies concerned from their own budgetary resources in accordance with the legislation in force. MNV Zrt. it may involve a budgetary body and a public ownership company in the performance of its operational tasks. Another important element of the public housing relationship is that MNV also provides for the maintenance, maintenance and renovation of real estate and investments in real estate. According to the proposal, the trust rights of budgetary bodies under the government's management or supervision will be terminated in two stages: on 1 August 2020 within the administrative boundaries of the capital, on 1 January 2021 for housing and recreational property located outside the administrative boundaries of the capital city. The termination of the trust does not cover state-owned property located abroad. However, in order to ensure the smooth provision of public tasks, the budgetary bodies using these properties under asset management shall have a temporary right of use pending the establishment of a legal relationship for the purpose of public housing, the substance of which shall be determined by the rules of the Civil Code Act on loan agreements. The proposal also provides that, if the right of trustee is terminated by law and the property concerned does not belong to MNV Zrt. under the exercise of ownership rights, in this case the owner other than MNV ceases to exercise the right, and is obliged to ensure the transfer of the property to MNV. An exception is the exercise of ownership rights by the Investment Agency and the National Centre for Earth Affairs. It is proposed that the temporary right of use be terminated if, on the basis of the outcome of the review, MNV issues the designation document. The MNV shall comply with the disposal obligation by issuing the designating document. Ladies and gentlemen, In summary, the amendment of the State Property Act sets out substantive provisions that allow responsible and efficient management of the State's assets. The public housing relationship simplifies the placement of budgetary bodies under the government's management and supervision. [[16.40]] Dear House, In addition to what has been said, the bill is CXXXVIII of 2018 on the implementation of state-funded investments. It also contains a legislative amendment specifying the rules for the use of the investment reserve. Some of the changes in the area of property responsibility presented above are in line with the government objectives of managing state wealth, while at the same time consolidating the framework for the responsible and effective implementation of next year's budget by means of a bill on the budget. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/10856. Please support bill number 1. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-12-116	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs for two minutes, KDNP.
u2020-06-12-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have heard two quite amazing speeches here from László Varju and Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, although she rushed straight away and did not wait for the answer, although she often misses why there is no debate, why there is no answer. But speaking of Parliament arson, the opposition set fire here in Kossuth Square a year and a half ago. To hear the term "taxability" for the first time, and now you're surprised that it's in the bill, we don't really know what to say. For example, there have been a number of road or sidewalk renewal applications in recent years, which have been written on the basis that if there is a tax capacity of less than HUF 12,000 per person somewhere, then the application can be awarded and it was a tender condition. This is a long-standing term in the national economy, which, I think, is a good indicator due to the financial situation of the settlement. What I don't understand is why you're against whitening the economy, electronic payments, payment facilitations and the connection of all retail units to the NAV, and why more transparent, cash-friendly solutions are hurting you. This would be worth a separate debate, but I think this is forward-looking. What I wanted to respond to Mr Varju, as his speech did not contain any reality, was the debt of the municipalities. Mr Congressman, during your time, resources have been constantly withdrawn from the municipalities, their resources have been constantly reduced while increasing their duties, and this is how the government has had to take over HUF 1300 billion in debt. Today, this debt does not exceed HUF 220 billion. So you weren't telling the truth when you said that this debt had been reclaimed. This is around 220 billion, while Hungarian municipalities have more than HUF 800 billion in deposits. This is only about HUF 180 billion in Budapest. So I ask you that when you alert people with these news, you use at least the exact figures, because we have taken over more than 1,300 billion forints, and now 220 billion is what has been reclaimed. I think these are quite different proportions than before. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju for two minutes.
u2020-06-12-119	Thank you very much. I am grateful that you spoke of the local government's debt trap, where, by the way, the Fidesz MEPs in the two thousand years did force these people, and these mayors, and they were even active contributors to this story. County general meetings and metropolitan cities took on foreign exchange loans that the then Government Audit Office found in 24 cases that the same intermediary played a role in borrowing up to HUF 5-10 billion and 80% of it. I will tell you that Mr Harghitai, who is, by the way, a member or vice-president of the Committee on Budgets, has personally publicly proclaimed the need to be indebted. He was the one who said that Viktor Orbán encouraged them to be indebted to the municipalities, by the way, when there was no two-thirds support for that government, and that you prevented the rules of the local government from being changed, i.e. reducing the right to hold back the borrowing of the municipalities. If you recall, the City Council Committee has discussed this many times. This investigation, which I am referring to, was part of this, and you do have a great responsibility for this debt. One. Two. After that, this debt did regenerate, not as a loan debt, but as a supplier's debt. If you look at the data, if you don't hide it, then you know and see exactly how much you've consolidated it, now you have essentially the same amount of debt to the municipal system. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-12-120	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the outgoing Secretary of State Izer Norbert.
u2020-06-12-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Taking advantage of the fortunate opportunity that both Mr Banai and myself have been following the debate, I would therefore like to respond briefly to the issues relating to taxation in the debate. Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Mr László Varju also indicated that they had reservations about the social security law and that they could not therefore support the proposal. I would like to thank you for raising this problem, because then I would like to put a little background on the law. In Hungary, the TB net is relatively wide and very, very tight. One element of this is pension insurance and the other is health insurance. Within health insurance, I would like to talk about access to health care services in a little bit more detail. It is very important that everyone is entitled to this healthcare service, so they can go to a doctor, they can go to a pharmacy, they are entitled to drug support, who has any employment, who works, who is a public servant or an entrepreneur; so anyone who works is insured, and thus benefits from pension insurance and health insurance. There is another very wide circle of people who are entitled to healthcare on a solidarity basis. They're the ones the state's taking over their payment obligation. For example, pensioners, children, children, children, children, anyone who receives any support from the state, disability benefits, disability benefits, war care benefits. Students, students, who are also entitled to full-time training, are also entitled to care. Prisoners and homeless people will also be provided with care, as well as those who are socially in need. So this is the second very large circle, who are entitled to healthcare on a solidarity basis. Those who miss out must pay the health care contributions, so those who are of working age are not hindered in their employment, but do not work or are not job seekers, so that is a working, active-age population who cannot or does not want to work for some reason or for some reason and is not socially in need. So this circle has to pay this tax. Moreover, since 2008, this specific tax liability has existed. As Congresswoman indicated, they can receive an extremely wide service in exchange for HUF 7710 per day, i.e. HUF 257 per day. I thought it was important to present this background because it was said in the debate that a large number of these social networks would fall out and that they could not pay this amount, then they would be forced into private care. It is very important to note that there has not been a minimum reduction in the number of persons entitled to benefits, so that they are entitled to the same benefits as those who were entitled under the rules in force today, or even under the rules in force before last year. So everyone who has been entitled will remain entitled to care. The big difference is that the tax authority and NEAK together have the power, which the current foundation law also allows by clarifying and regulating the data flows between them, so the two authorities will help to clear relations with the individuals concerned in time, even at the beginning of the payment obligation. So it is not that a private individual may be sitting for years with a red-lighted property card, and he is in uncertainty whether or not his property card is valid, go to a doctor, but, from 1 July, a clear and transparent system will be put in place where the tax authority, together with NEAK, informs all the individuals concerned that his relationship is irregular, look into it, and try to clarify the situation. And there are six months in the current proposal to do this data reconciliation without any sanctions. So I think it is very important that we will be able to create a very clear, transparent situation here, and no one will be able to face the fact that they may be confronted with the doctor or anywhere else that their property card is invalid, as otherwise in the past. The other important thing that Mrs Bangóné also raised is what is going on with the stakeholders whose employer, employer, may not pay the contributions, and the individual is working in good faith with the company and otherwise is not insured. [[16.50]] This is also an extremely important issue, which is also dealt with by the new Social Security Act, because if the tax authority and NEAK see that someone is not insured, they signal this to the individual. Thus, it is not possible for a person who has not been reported to the employer for years and has been employed black for years without being aware of this. You will be informed of this by the authorities at the first opportunity, so you will be able to clear this system. And if you are registered with your employer, this is also an important aspect that is not dependent on the care, so health service access does not depend on whether the employer pays this contribution or not, so if the employer has difficulties in paying, let's say, in connection with the coronal virus epidemic, or because of negligence or for whatever reason, this does not affect access to healthcare. Because the fact that someone's registered is his insurance, and that means he has access to the care. Thus, the payment and deduction of contributions or individual contributions does not affect the benefit. I thought it was very important to remember that. Finally, a third issue came up in the previous debate: Andrea Varga-Damm indicated that she felt unworthy of the 9 percent Hungarian tax rate in Paris. I think that we should be proud to be able to operate with the most competitive tax rate in the whole Union. It is a well-known fact, however, that almost all countries are trying to reduce income tax, as it is the main obstacle to companies' competitiveness and investment, so all countries are trying to reduce this tax. The fact that some Western European countries could not do this because they could not carry out internal reforms means that they were unable to transform their own tax systems into competitive ones, so I could say a little bit that they are trying to pass on their own incompetence to the Eastern European countries. Thus, Western European countries operating with 30-35 percent corporate tax obviously do not appreciate that some Eastern European countries can operate at rates of up to 10 percent or even 10 percent. After 12 years of tax advice, I think that I can afford that if there was such an opportunity that anyone in Hungary would set up a company without any conditions and then tax in Hungary, Hungary or the Hungarian budget would have been in a very, very easy position. Unfortunately, it's not that simple, or fortunately, it's not that simple. The OECD regulates the possibility of a tax resident in a particular country, there are these mandatory conditions, so there must be a real economic presence in certain countries and in all countries, and Hungary has consistently, for years, been in line with these OECD recommendations. Thus, each Hungarian tax rule is settled and regulated in accordance with OECD basic rules, so that is why the OECD does not really see the catch at this Hungarian 9 percent tax rate, because it needs to have a completely legal, completely legal and real Hungarian economic performance in order to be able to live with the 9 percent tax rate in Hungary. In my opinion, Mr State Secretary will respond to the further questions raised in the debate, so thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-12-122	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The next scheduled speaker is not in the Chamber, so I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the Council, notary, DK.
u2020-06-12-123	Dear House, If Mr. Secretary hadn't asked for the floor, I wouldn't have asked for the floor. I would just like to remind Mr Secretary of State that we were sitting there, if I remember correctly, in the Legislative Committee, perhaps in December, where we said that the rule that you think those who do not have an established social security status excludes you from health care has a lot of problems. We suggested that this rule should then not be incorporated into the law, but that it be returned to an elaborate proposal with appropriate guarantees. Mr. Secretary of State, just as you said today that everything is going to be fine, everything will be fine, no one will be left out of the system, no one will be put at a disadvantage, as you said in December. What happened? We have in front of us the bill, which expands the number of people receiving social benefits, from 3 months to 6 months, which settles the situation of those who do not have an address. Do you remember that? He said that he would not be like this, that there would be no problem; on the one hand, I can say that he was glad, better late than never, that he had listened to the comments that not only we, but also the experts, had expressed in this matter. Why should we believe what you're saying now, Mr. Secretary? If the government was late, but he realized that he was wrong, then why should we believe that everything was gonna be okay now? An important step forward in this proposal, because there is one that makes it clearer and more transparent who has and who does not have an affair and who makes it a public task, not I, as an employee, have to constantly check that it is okay, but the state tells me that if it is not okay, it is a good measure. We're just saying, we're telling you to get things right first, or get things right first. And let me tell you one more thing. Today, these types of social security records, whether they are pensions or health insurance, are in a terrible state. Anyone who has encountered these systems in recent years, or at least spoke to someone who has encountered these systems, knows that they are full of inaccurate data, knows that they are unreliable. People get red cards, so they don't have a social security card, and otherwise they have a fully organized relationship, and then they can run around to prove it. But so far, it's been relatively normal. From now on, there will be someone leaving after six months because he needs medical attention, and they will tell him that you don't have a relationship, and then he can run around and try to prove that he does, while otherwise he needs health care. Another problem, and I realise that this should not be dealt with within this regulatory system, but it is still a fact that many people in Hungary live not on their own beliefs, but because of your highly flawed employment and social policies in a type of grey zone, such as days or in other ways where employers do not pay or barely pay their contributions. It would be good to whiten this sector, but it is not the solution to starve and not even have health care, but the solution is to look for forms of employment that, let's say, offer solutions to these workers and these employers. But you're gonna have to work this out. So, what I'd like to say is, because there's not gonna be someone who's gonna be in a position to live by the day to go to the owner, the owner, and he's gonna say, "Yeah, but if you don't report me to social security, then I'm not gonna work for you, 'cause he's gonna starve to death. So what I would like to say to you is that I am glad that you saw that you were wrong then, but I think you should learn from this story that perhaps the confidence that you are dealing with this system and that you think that everything is going to be okay is not necessarily justified. Create the conditions in the social system, the employment system, and create the conditions in the administration so that no one is threatened just because they are poor, just because they are vulnerable, without health care. Look at what happened during the coronal virus epidemic in America, where this type of system works. That's not what we want. We want a type of system that takes care of everyone. I believe they want to clean this up, and I think it's right that it's in order. It is right for society to act as social security for those who are being paid by employers, and it is right that there are no stowaways here, as you say. Although, I tell you, a large proportion of stowaways are actually not stowaways, they are vulnerable people who have no choice but to be stowaways, but they have to come up with this system from the administrative side and from the social side, how to avoid thousands of people being left without health care. Because that's unacceptable. Do not clean up at the expense of vulnerable people, catch employers who abuse the situation of workers and create a social and labour system that really helps people to work legally. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-12-124	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert.
u2020-06-12-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I take this opportunity because Mr Arato has raised a few other issues. A number of positive voices or comments were also made in the second half of his speech, but in the first half there was some attack on the government's position. Let me clarify here that last fall, which we maintained, or which we indicated at the TAB meeting, for example, will continue to be maintained. So I think that this system is well-designed, well-thought out, and with the current amendment we have been able to arrange fine-tunings and data reconciliations in the legal relationship or in the law, which is necessary to ensure that the exchange of data is fully secure. On a two-week basis, we're consulting with the authorities right now, and we're doing very well in preparation. [[17.00]] I think it is important, however, that it will be possible for these three months to grow to six months here in Parliament, not because this system might not work well, but because it is precisely because the Member has also pointed out that these three or six months are enough for individuals to clear their legal relationship. It is a very important difference compared to the current or previous situation that the tax authority will be looking for individuals in the context of the new social security law. Therefore, it is not possible, as Mr President has indicated, that for six months, let us say, someone is ignoring the social security regulations, so he ignores the fact that he would otherwise have to pay his contribution, and suddenly he falls into the doctor's office, and there he is confronted with an invalid brown property card. The point of the new system is that when someone falls out of the sight of the tax authority or of the NEAK, so they see that they do not pay contributions, at the first possible opportunity, the tax authority will practically indicate the next day that there may be a tax liability here. So they provide information to the individual, they seek the individual to settle his relationship, settle this uncertainty. So these three or six months can't go by without the tax authority reaching out to the person concerned. So it can't be that someone sits at home for six months, and suddenly their social security card or social security card expires. What will happen is that the tax authority will contact you several times, so it is not possible for someone to go to the doctor with an expired social security card. So the point of the change of rule is that the tax authority and NEAK together will inform the individual several times in several circles. So everyone will be informed, and everyone will be in a position to clear the relationship either with their employer or with their previous employer. So here I think it is very important to note that these three months have been extended to six months because, in the context of the coronal virus epidemic behind us or even with us these days, it appears that the health system is quite overwhelmed. This extra time may therefore be needed to clarify these relations. The other observation that Mr Arató made was that the government also misconceived in relation to domesticity last December that everything could be okay. Here, too, I firmly believe today, that this should not prevent anyone from registering for their apartment. This was one of the charges last fall, perhaps the congressmen here remember that the reason why someone can't have a domestic address is because the landlord or owner who rents the apartment doesn't allow him to check in to the address. It is very important here that the owner does not need the consent of someone to log in to the address, so it is enough to present the lease contract if necessary and then he can be registered to that address. If this would be an inconvenience for the individual, so he does not want to check in so to speak without the landlord's knowledge, then it is possible to log in to a local address, where this is not done with a specific address. So if one has only this obstacle to having a valid property card, then it can also be done that they will have a domestic address logged in to a local address and thus have a valid owner's number. What is now a positive amendment is included in the foundation law, and that is to clarify the concept of this domesticity, so that the definition of this will be a little more liberal, it will be even easier to justify this domesticity, but I still think that without the local address and the landlord's approval, the contract will continue to be justified by the presentation of the housing contract. So what we said in December is still true, yet the current amendment contains a number of relief measures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-12-126	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak before the author closes. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-06-12-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Let me begin by saying that Mr László Varju said that the Ministry of Finance does not answer the questions asked. [[László Varju: In writing...]] Dear House, You can see that you and Izer are as many of us as the present representatives of the Democratic Coalition, so I think that we are trying to answer all the questions. As far as the specific points are concerned, there have also been some issues that are not related to the present proposal before this House, but I think it is appropriate to respond to them. The first of these was why the Parliament is now discussing the budget and the underlying bill, as the implementation of the 2019 budget is not yet known, the accounts are closed, the Parliament has not discussed it. Let me say that the facts of 2019 are known, and I have repeatedly said that both on the websites of domestic bodies and on the websites of the various bodies of the European Union are known for the series of data on the growth of the Hungarian economy, the lack of public finances and public debt. It is reasonable to suggest that the Parliament should also discuss the closing report, why it should not be discussed now. Because closing accounts are not only about the economic and public finances of the country in the previous year, but also about how regular the use of public funds was. The State Audit Office will monitor the use of public funds for months, and, following this audit, the State Audit Office will submit its own report to Parliament together with the draft closing act. So the figures are known, the figures on the fulfilment of expenditure and revenue are known; the effectiveness and regularity of the use of the money will be checked by the State Audit Office, and on this basis the closing accounts and the SAO document will be presented to the Honourable Parliament. Moreover, I do not think that the foundation of the budget is primarily determined by the date at which it is submitted by the government and when it is approved by the Parliament, by other factors other than that. If we look back in Hungarian history for 20 years, let us say, then we can see that they were not the most established budgets approved by the Parliament in December. As far as municipalities are concerned, Congressman Varju has said that we are limiting the possibilities of local authorities. I would say, in the bill setting up the budget for 2021, which is currently under discussion, that this motion increases the possibilities of municipalities, as it includes a new borrowing facility. Why is that necessary? Why do we consider this amendment necessary? On the one hand, in order to help businesses to recover from the economic crisis as soon as possible, the obligation to upload the local industrialisation tax at the end of the year will be shifted, i.e. in December no longer have to pay the business tax on the basis of the economic processes of that year, they will be able to do so on the basis of the facts. The same system is also applied to corporate tax. Moreover, the current economic processes can indeed lead to a situation where a local government considers it appropriate to take out a new loan beyond the year. This is what the proposal to increase the lending opportunities of municipalities is about. With regard to Andrea Varga-Damm, she also suggested that there should be any restrictions at all. What I would like to say is that there are still restrictions on the amount of loans and the functioning of the municipalities, which can be derived from the Fundamental Law or the Law on Local Government. Why? Because local authorities are part of the state in the broad sense. The lack of municipalities, the government's debt, increases the deficit and debt of the state as a whole, and therefore, just as the state must be limited to itself, the central budget must be limited to itself, so it is also appropriate for local authorities to maintain limits for the benefit of all of us. As far as the situation of the municipalities is concerned, I can only confirm what KDNP has said; indeed, the financial situation of the local authorities is quite different now than before. Here, Congressman Varju made an inaccurate statement about the data. It's the same with tax power. It is a concept that has been used for many years, as you have all heard in the debate. As far as the use of local business tax is concerned, I can say again that it is a rule that has been in force for several years. We are not creating a new rule, but there is a clarification because of the amendment of the rule on the inclusion of so-called municipal subsidies. The local business tax has so far had to be used by local authorities to finance transport and to finance social tasks. [[17.10]] Why do we say that? Because, by the way, the budget law defines the number of persons required to carry out the tasks of each local government office, and the central budget provides the support for this. As regards the amendment of the Trade Act, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm strongly protested against the government's motion. In this connection, I would like to say that we propose that traders with online cash registers should be able to make electronic payments. This electronic payment option may also include an instant payment method, which has no or minimal investment costs. The Secretary of State has mentioned that in many cases an e-mail address can be paid from a telephone; the account number to whom we pay must be known. But there's also a number of POS terminals. So I think that this is a step that helps consumers by spreading electronic payments, allowing people to pay electronically to have the opportunity to do so. And now, when personal contact has to be reduced, when an important tool to control the epidemic was to reduce contact numbers, physical contact numbers, paper usage, because it could also help spread the epidemic, it is also important from a health point of view to ensure that electronic payments are made in as many places as possible. Finally, allow me to express my thanks for the fact that the critical comments or, where appropriate, supporting comments from the left-wing benches concerned a small part of the amendments tabled. From this I conclude that the majority of Parliament agrees with most of the motion submitted. In the hope of this, I hope that the motion will be adopted later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-12-128	Thank you very much for the closure of Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament will take place on 15 June 2020. Thank you for your work. I wish you a restful evening. The meeting's closed.
