u2020-03-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-10-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor today because I would like to provide the Parliament with information on the quality of our relations with Ukraine at present and on further plans. This is the bilateral relationship with neighbouring countries where we have had the most challenges in recent years. I would also like to emphasise here, as we stress in every case that Hungary is, of course, in favour of Ukraine when it comes to territorial integrity and sovereignty, but at the same time, it should not be withheld that the rights of the Hungarian national community in Transcarpathia have been violated in many cases by Ukrainians through legislative decisions. Laws have been put in place in the field of education and language use that have clearly violated and violated the rights of the Hungarian national community. This is not only about the rights of the Hungarian minority, of course, in general about minority rights, but, of course, for us, for the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government, the rights of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia are of primary importance. We also know that, of course, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about this issue, we are being portrayed in world politics, given that they are thinking about Ukraine as a geopolitical factor, that it would be a Russian-friendly policy; I think we should call it ridiculous. We understand that thousands of kilometres from here, we understand that one ocean away, we understand that 150 thousand Hungarians are less important than geopolitics in a completely different perspective, but for us Hungarians, the fate of 150,000 Hungarians is much more important than any geopolitical approach. I therefore call on the Honourable Parliament to continue to ensure that unity, the single position and support with which we can act effectively in the interests of the Hungarian national community in Transcarpathia. The Ukrainians continue to aim to ensure that all people living in Ukraine, all Ukrainian citizens, speak the language of the state well. Our aim is to give all members of Hungarian national communities across borders the rights to use their own mother tongue, and I think that these two are not two irreconcilable objectives. It is possible to know the language of the state at the same time and to preserve the rights to use the mother tongue at the same time. We therefore made a constructive proposal to the Ukrainian party. Today, young people who attend Hungarian-language education in Transcarpathia learn Ukrainian as a state language 7 hours a week or, as we say, a foreign language. If a person learns a foreign language seven hours a week, if it is done at the right level, he should be able to learn it well in a few years. However, Ukrainians are not well-spoken by young people attending Hungarian schools in Transcarpathia, and the reason for this is that Ukrainian language education, as a state language, is not of sufficient quality. Therefore, it is not necessary to teach physics and chemistry in Ukrainian, while it is necessary to understand it in Hungarian at least in the first year a difficult thing, especially in a language in which one does not speak, is virtually impossible, so the instruction in Ukrainian is only good for the Hungarian children of Transcarpathia to be more behind and even less competitive. Therefore, we urge that we leave the subjects taught in the Hungarian language, but at the same time we increase the quality of teaching the Ukrainian language as a state language, and the Hungarian state is ready to pay for it. We are ready to bear the costs of teaching and developing teachers, we are ready to bear the costs of developing new textbooks and dictionaries. This proposal was placed on the table of the Ukrainian Government. I respectfully inform you that we have done this in the context of a complex proposal, we are ready to further develop the Transcarpathian infrastructure in the framework of EUR 50 million of tied aid loans, we are ready to open new border crossings, we are ready to renovate the Zahony Tisza Bridge, we are ready to develop motorway connections, and we are also ready to develop agricultural cooperation. However, I would like to underline that the blocking and veto of NATO-Ukraine councils will continue until we can reach an agreement on how to return the minority rights that have been taken. I respectfully inform you that on 26 March, Ukraine's new Foreign Minister will visit Budapest, who was commissioned by the Ukrainian President to try to restore bilateral good neighbourly relations; we are ready for this. We are also preparing sensible proposals based on common sense on 26 March, and after 26 March I will inform the Parliament again about progress. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-03-10-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask, on the part of the political groups, someone wishes to speak in a two-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Barcza, Fidesz.
u2020-03-10-3	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, If we respond to the Minister for Foreign Affairs's speech, it is important to begin by thanking him and the Hungarian Government for standing on the international stage to defend the interests of Hungarian rights and also for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. If we look at the Hungarian-Ukrainian basic agreement, one of the most important things in it was that Ukraine guarantees minority rights for Hungarians and there are many other details of this, and we can say that Hungary is complying with it, but Ukraine is unfortunately not respecting it. After Maidan, when Ukraine approached NATO and the EU, as it is now approaching, we can say that Hungary was one of the biggest supporters of this, even Ukraine acknowledges this, the government considers this position to be a basic position, but by taking language laws, education laws and other measures affecting Hungarians, it is natural that Hungary can no longer take this position. At a low point in Porosenko, measures have been taken against Hungarians that, I think, are not sustainable. There is a great deal of pressure on the Hungarian government to support Ukraine's approach to NATO, but this requires a change. I am confident that the new line relating to President Zelensky may mean a new era that can bring a little relief in this. [[9.10]] It is important to say that according to press reports, more than 16,000 new callers will be issued to Ukraine, and this will affect the region of Transcarpathia by 460 people, which will, of course, place a new burden on Hungarian families, as most of these callers will arrive to young Hungarians. That's what I'm asking of the Fidesz faction, Minister for Foreign Affairs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and from the Hungarian Government, support the right of Hungarian minorities to improve Hungarian-Ukrainian relations as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament, who wishes to comment in two minutes, to press the two-minute button. I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue.
u2020-03-10-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Thank you for the briefing. I would like to make it clear that the Dialogue also condemns this Ukrainian language law, and we find it unacceptable that from the 5th grade the possibility of learning in mother tongue is reduced, and we also support the fact that the government, Hungary, is blocking Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic steps in this matter. But apparently, I'm not sure that's gonna work. My question to the Secretary of State is that he has examined other diplomatic options. For example, this Ukrainian language law also affects Romanians, Bulgarians and Poles. The Polish have a particularly good relationship with Ukraine. Have you considered the possibility of acting together against this language law, did this happen? What about the personal meeting with Zelensky, the Prime Minister can ever meet him in person? Zelensky also spoke Hungarian in his New Year's toast, greeting the Hungarians as well, it may be a sign that his attitude might be more positive in this direction. So if that's what the Secretary of State can respond to, I'll thank you. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman in two minutes, Jobbik.
u2020-03-10-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, We have once again thanked Minister of Foreign Affairs for informing us about the Hungarian-Ukrainian relations, which we receive continuously, also as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in a very fair way. Jobbik, as a national party, has always supported the Hungarian Government in all its efforts to protect, among other things, the rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians, and we have always supported the Hungarian Government in this matter. This support will, of course, continue to be maintained, including the blocking of NATO accession, as long as the language law... and at present the redeployment of the public administration are also taking place, which will also adversely affect Transcarpathian Hungarians, and on any matter in which I have been personally a researcher for many years on the issue of autonomy, including in the Council of Europe, where the Venice Commission is always involved in this process as a mediator. I would like to point out with respect that during the visit of the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, there will be a way for opposition parties to participate in this meeting at a level as permitted by the protocol, because this is a common national issue, I believe, in which we all share a common interest, and Hungarian-Ukrainian relations are very important only because, in the conflict frozen in the eastern part of Ukraine, Transcarpathians also die and died, as my fellow Member Attila Barcza pointed out, and I believe that this is a national issue in which we must show unity. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-8	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy asked for a word for two minutes, MSZP.
u2020-03-10-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, too, Minister. I would also like to point out from the very beginning that the MSZP faction also supports any solution that constructively resolves this situation and can indeed improve the situation of the Hungarian minority in relation to the language law. What you have presented, Minister, is a constructive proposal, and there is one question as to how constructive the Ukrainian party also considers this proposal to be. Let's hope this comes out on 26 March. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that this is not a frozen conflict, as Congressman said, that soldiers are dying on the front line. Many people interpret this as a frozen conflict. It's not that, it's a very hot conflict. It is a neighbouring partner country, the stability of Ukraine is of paramount importance for Hungary, and it is therefore of paramount importance that Ukraine joins NATO and the European Union. And we must say that this has been done, Minister, that there has been aggression in Ukraine, that has taken over its territory, it is not acceptable in any way in terms of time limits. Minister, he did not talk about it, but the Venice Commission also had a resolution, which I think will help the Hungarian position or at least that Hungarian argument, which means that rights have been removed from the Hungarian minority across the border. This is what I used to do in my various negotiations when, as President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I had to manifest myself as a Hungarian politician on such matters. I would like to suggest one thing to the Minister's attention. He talked about it, and several people here said that everyone here is in favour of blocking Ukraine in connection with the NATO Council. I would therefore like to point out to Minister that this is causing serious damage to the Hungarian Government and Hungary, its effectiveness so far is doubtful. I just want to say this here so that it is in our mind that we have achieved as much results so far as, let's say, the Poles, the Romanians, if possible, with a background diplomacy. That is why I hope that the 26 March round [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Makes a difference. If not, I would consider by the government to change this strategy. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-03-10-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to thank Minister of Foreign Affairs for his commitment in this matter, and to draw the attention of all of us to the fact that when we talk about this subject, we are talking about the fate of 71 Hungarian educational institutions and more than 16,000 students studying Hungarian languages. What is also important to note is that we are not talking about the demand for additional rights here, but about acquired rights, for which there is still no legal guarantee. We concluded an interstate contract between Ukraine and Hungary in 1991, which guarantees the right of national minorities. The Ukrainian Constitution includes the protection of the rights of national minorities, and let us not forget that, as part of the 47 Member States, the Member States of Ukraine have signed and ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. I would like to point out that this means not only for a Member State which ratifys these international treaties to guarantee these rights, but also to promote and improve the rights of national minorities. [[9.20]] There is also a huge hiatus here, and in the last three years, the Education Act, the Public Education Act, the Media Act and the new electoral code that entered into force in December 2019 add additional burdens to the issue of national minorities. There are two laws that the Venice Commission has consulted, one by the Education Act and the other by the Language Law. In both cases, the Venice Commission specifically drew Ukraine's attention to the immediate start of negotiations with representatives of national minorities, and private institutions should not be covered by the Education Act. Moreover, the language law limits the use of minority language to private conversations and religious ceremonies. We all know that language is the most important element of identity and culture, so thank you all for your support in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes, DK.
u2020-03-10-13	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, We would certainly like to welcome the fact that the government seems to be returning to the path of constructive negotiations with Ukraine. We see that this is the only effective way to achieve results in order to protect Hungarians across the border. The power policy, the empty threat in this area, has not or will not deliver. We support them if they move in this direction and try to find a common constructive solution. At the same time, if we are able to revive the Hungarian-Ukrainian dialogue in substance, then we suggest that another tortured, Hungarian-Ukrainian-related question be put on the table. Ten years ago, we handed over government to you with the completion of the draft Hungarian-Ukrainian pension agreement, a draft that would have ended the shameful business at the expense of Hungarian pensioners. [[István Szilárd Németh: Stop lying!]] Ukrainian citizens, mostly non-Hungarian citizens, come across and establish a fictitious home address in an abusive manner, in order to take advantage of the extremely poorly formulated rules, fraud and abuse of the Hungarian pension in the former Hungarian-Soviet interstate contract. If we are already settling Hungarian-Ukrainian relations, I would like to ask you to settle this, and finally put this issue to rest. This would also put an end to another business, the business in which, in exchange for the lenient attitude of the Hungarian authorities, fictitious voters appear on fictitious addresses in border areas, and very real votes will be cast on pro-government politicians. I ask you to act on this and to be effective. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks. Németh Szilárd István: They change nothing!]]
u2020-03-10-14	Thank you, Congressman. I will give the floor in two minutes to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, Congressman LMP.
u2020-03-10-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the information on behalf of the LMP fraction. I think that it is positive in this case that the majority of the factions agree. The LMP also strongly believes that blocking both NATO and EU accession is not an excessive tool to fight and do everything to ensure the rights of Hungarians living across the border, living in Transcarpathia. This should be a perfectly clear position, present by the government, and I think that the opposition should also support the Hungarian Government, that it stands not only at the level of words, but also in terms of the enforcement of Hungarian rights, but also in terms of the enforcement of very important European values. This is not contrary to the interests of the European Union at all, since a country wants to join the European Union if it can accept and enforce the most important core values that are needed to become a member of such a community. At the same time, I have also seen in European politics, in the Committee of the European Regions, that it is a very difficult process to present this at all, because the Ukrainian lobby is very powerful and it is difficult to make this position clear. So it is very, very important to have some kind of cooperation with the nations that are also involved in these matters. It is extremely important that we get to the point where both this shameful educational law and the language law do not enter into force and that they cannot prevail, so it is very, very important that there is some kind of strong cooperation between the different nations. We are also watching the news, and we are concerned, as we read, that there are different proposals from the Hungarian government, but as if the rejection were very powerful. My question to the Minister is that he feels a shift. Obviously, in terms of political will, you need to see a shift, that you can move from political level to a professional debate on content, because that would obviously give you the opportunity. If there is a political decision on the part of the Ukrainian party to sit down at the negotiating table at all, it will give us the opportunity to discuss substantive issues. Is there such a move, is there any hope that the parties will be able to sit at the table? Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-16	Thank you very much. No more comments, thank you very much. I would like to say to those who have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he has no opportunity to reply, that this will have to be done in a different way. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, asked for a pre-meeting speech with a title entitled "On Current Affairs."
u2020-03-10-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Last week, this was raised in the immediate questions by my colleague Tamás Harangozó, who said that in recent years there has been a significant reduction in equal opportunities in higher education, and that fewer and fewer children from poor, disadvantaged families can enter universities. I myself have confirmed this on the basis of my own experience as an instructor. The Prime Minister replied with one sentence, saying that this is absurd, since in the old days less than 10 percent went to university, and today more than 30 percent of the relevant age groups are fine, and therefore everything in this area is fine. Of course, this argument does not stand logically, since the fact that it has expanded from 10 percent to 30 percent does not mean that equal opportunities could improve, since it is possible that the children of the families coming out of the top three income tenths filled these places. But there is also a problem with quantitative numbers, because if we look at them, we see that there were 424 thousand higher education students in Hungary in 2005 and only 361,000 in 2010 and 281 thousand in 2018. So the fall was dramatic. The result of this decline is that in 2005, 4.2 percent of the Hungarian population received higher education education, the same figure is only 2.9 percent by 2016, and this is likely to have fallen to around 2.5 percent. It also follows that the share of graduates in 30-34 years of age is decreasing. We see from the statistics that while in 2014 there was 34 percent of graduates in the 30-34-year-old population, this fell to 32 percent by 2017, while the EU average was 40 percent. And if we look at the former socialist countries around us, it was growing everywhere except Hungary. In addition to quantitative rates, however, there are also qualitative problems and problems, as the 64 higher education institutions have very fragmented higher education and, consequently, there are very uneven institutions. It is also very worrying that in 2018, for example, the number of students in master's school decreased by 4.1 percent. So it is very clear that master's and doctoral schools are being eliminated very strongly. Studies on the reduction of equal opportunities all highlight the fundamental problem that the children of wealthy, rich families can gain serious benefits by the age of 18 by going to better primary schools, elite secondary schools, taking extra lessons, learning foreign languages, and consequently obtaining an advantage that disadvantaged students cannot bring in until the age of 18. The reason they can't bring us in is because our education system is such that it can't work off these disadvantages. The difference was that 30-40 years ago, primary and secondary schools were of such a quality that they were able to overcome these disadvantages, and therefore the poor, but brave, talented children were able to get into higher education. Today, you can see that the most talented ones can get to a BA training at a rural university, but they are rarely able to get into master's and doctoral school. [[9.30]] Of course, this is not only their problem, it is not just that they are the losers of this post-2010 period, but it is the loser of the whole country, because we are giving up a lot of talented people who could contribute to making Hungary more competitive. And why is that? All because the Orbán government believes that it is enough for them to renew their power elite in the higher education system. I think the dog is buried here, and that should be substantially changed. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-10-18	Thank you, Congressman Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, will respond.
u2020-03-10-19	[[The Secretary of State is putting up his next microphone.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The statement that the government is not committed to higher education, I think that it does not correspond to reality, because the government has a determined and clear aim to make Hungary one of the five most vibrant and competitive countries of the European Union by 2030, which is why our goal is to make young Hungarians the winners of the future, which is why we are also developing the system of higher education and vocational training. The aim is to improve the performance of higher education, to strengthen the performance and competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. This is why major investment in higher education infrastructure and R &amp; D tasks have been deployed to universities, since... [[On behalf of the President:]] Good question. Secretary of State stole my microphone. [[Defiance.]] But I got it back. May I start over, Mr. President, or shall we continue here? [[He's putting on his own microphone.]]
u2020-03-10-20	Let's get on with it, and thank the techs. Let's hear it, Mr. Secretary, continue. We'll count it.
u2020-03-10-21	I'll keep going. So the Hungarian government has a strong vision of increasing the quality and competitiveness of Hungarian higher education, since we all have a common goal to make Hungarian young people the winner of the future. That is why we are implementing improvements, and that is why we have created changes in the field of Hungarian higher education that confirm all this intention and this goal. That is why we also think that Hungarian higher education institutions should have a closer relationship with market participants and research institutions. We believe that higher education institutions must, on the one hand, be at the heart of innovation ecosystems, partly because, by the way, the knowledge that is available in higher education institutions should be used by economic operators as soon as possible and, on the other hand, so that the research needs of economic operators can be developed by higher education institutions. This is what the change is about to strengthen the system of dual training in the field of higher education, not only in vocational training but also in higher education, because the aim of all of us is to have practical and real life-like experiences for young Hungarians even during their higher education studies. Honourable Congressman, I think that the success of Hungarian higher education is also well demonstrated by the fact that Hungarian higher education institutions are increasingly advanced in the different rankings. The Hungarian higher education institutions are particularly well involved in European research and innovation cooperation, among the European higher education institutions many of the selected institutions are Hungarian higher education institutions, which show that they are able to compete in Europe, and show that they are capable of international cooperation. Again, I think that the competitiveness of Hungarian higher education is well demonstrated by the significant number of students arriving from abroad participating in Hungarian higher education. There are many students from all over the world who want to deepen their knowledge in Hungarian higher education. Honourable Congressman, You mentioned the question of creating a chance. Allow me to draw your attention to two questions in this regard. On the one hand, the fact that in the Hungarian higher education system scholarships may have been raised in a way that has been seen in the past, thus helping everyone to have a real opportunity to study higher education. That's why we've raised our scholarships to an outstanding extent. This is also what the student loan support system is about, which can be used partly for a living and partly for tuition fees, if someone has been recruited only for self-paid training, as we can provide free, state-supported training for more and more students. I am saying this only because we have reduced the scores in several training courses for Hungarian young people, in order to enable them to participate in state-supported training from the current recruitment period. As a last sentence, allow me to draw attention to the fact that in recent years the proportion of Roma youth in Hungarian higher education has increased two to two times, thanks to the committed work of Roma schools. I think that we can all be proud of this result. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-22	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Head of Group, LMP:. Székely Day of Liberty, also applied for a speech before the agenda.
u2020-03-10-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is March 10th, and we know that on this day in 1854, the Szekler martyrs were executed in Marosvásárhely. Since 2012, we have been celebrating the Szekler Day of Freedom, on this day we are commemorating martyrs, and on this day we are talking about the very, very important endeavour that is a legitimate ambition of the Szeklerland to achieve self-determination and territorial autonomy. Sadly, on this day I myself have been commemorating these many years now at the traditional mass event and parade, which is an extremely uplifting event, and it is regrettable that this very year, on the 100th anniversary of the outrageous and tragic Trianon peace dictatorship, this event cannot take place due to current developments. That is why it is important to talk about this issue before the agenda, and it is important to draw attention to the fact that there will be a memorial in Budapest today at 5:00 a.m. in Heroes' Square, and it is very important that as many of us there express our stand for this matter. It is very important, in addition to commemoration, to say that we have a task on this issue, a task that is a common national task, a common national matter. As I have already said, this is the autonomy of the Szekler and the guarantee of the self-determination of the Hungarian communities at all. It is clear to all of us that one of the biggest challenges facing the Hungarian nation in the motherland and the entire Carpathian Basin is to ensure the possibility of staying in the homeland. This is a very serious challenge in the mother country, and there are a lot of rural areas where migration has been strengthened mainly due to economic problems, but this is a particularly huge challenge in cross-border areas, also, let us say, in Szeklerland, where economic problems are not only to be dealt with. That is why we have a duty to draw attention to this problem both in domestic politics and at European level. It is extremely important that we show and teach neighbouring countries and Europe that it is not acceptable that, many years after joining the European Union, some politicians want to use political capital to incite hatred against Hungarians and to undermine the rights of Hungarians. We also need to teach neighbouring countries and the European political elite that it is not acceptable to discriminate against Hungarian-inhabited regions or national regions of this kind anywhere in Europe, both in terms of economic processes and in terms of development policy. We must also teach, show Europe that those very important passwords, European diversity, the preservation of European cultural values and traditions, are worthless if only words remain and cannot prevail. In this extremely important fight, a very important and effective instrument could be the European Citizens' Initiative launched by the Szekler National Council to develop national regions. I am very pleased that there has been a very broad consensus in Hungarian politics in this regard. Not long ago, a few weeks ago, a parliamentary resolution expressed its support by 158 unanimous votes in favour, only one faction was left out of this very broad national consensus. But we also need to say it, and let's be honest about it, that this collection of signatures doesn't look good on you. We know that this important European citizens' initiative will be successful if one million signatures are collected in the seven Member States of the Union in one year. It is a very serious result in itself that this type of broad national consensus has been able to develop on this issue, and it is also glad that not only in Parliament, but also in various areas, but also in many municipal meetings, very broad statements, which are not only pro-government, but also in support of opposition representatives. [[9.40]] However, it is now an extremely important and very, very serious task for all of us in these two months until 7 May to make this important initiative a success, so that we can collect the 1 million signatures needed to make this legislative intention binding on the Commission's table. I would therefore also like to ask my fellow Members, in addition to expressing their support, to spread the reputation of this support as widely as possible, and to do everything possible to ensure that these signatures are collected as quickly as possible. By the way, it is certainly a joyful and encouraging development that the number of online signatures has increased over the last few weeks, and we know that there can already be hundreds of thousands of signatures on paper. There is a good chance that we can say that it has already exceeded half, so that the number of signatures available has exceeded half a million, so it is certainly not hopeless that the initiative will be successful by 7 May, up to the deadline for signing, and that the 1 million signatures will indeed be available. I would also like to ask everyone who has not made use of this opportunity, on the Nemzetiregiok.eu page, to take a minute or two to express their support online with their signature and signature. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-24	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2020-03-10-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen and Congressman, First of all, thank you very much for bringing this matter to the Hungarian Parliament on the day of Szekler's freedom. I, too, would like to extend our best wishes to the Szeklers and welcome the Szekler Day of Freedom. As you said, Mr President, we have been celebrating the issue of Szekler solidarity since 10 March 2012. I think that if we look at the results of the last ten years of national policy, we have reason to be confident. Our Fundamental Law also states that Hungary is responsible for the fate of Hungarians living outside the border, with a view to joining the united Hungarian nation, and our task in this regard is to promote the survival and development of their communities and to support their efforts to preserve their Hungarian heritage. In this context, in particular, compared to the period 2002-2010, when the issue of national policy and national cohesion was not, to put it mildly, at the heart of government interest, we had a number of things to do, and that is why we adopted, on the one hand, the amendment of the law on simplified localisation, resulting in a million more Hungarian citizens in the world now. In the framework of this, we reconvened the Hungarian Permanent Conference, which became the main Hungarian-Hungarian political conciliation forum, and then in 2011 we also established the Hungarian Diaspora Council, which intends to act as a forum for consultation and representation of interests of Hungarian communities scattered outside the Carpathian Basin. I am very pleased that there are unfortunate exceptions to the work of these councils, as you have mentioned, but the opposition parties are also involved. While we have been getting criticism of this issue, I also see the written questions submitted by Members of Parliament, and we are constantly receiving critical written questions from the opposition side about the resources allocated to Hungarian organisations across the border and to cross-border affairs, but then I am glad that we have at least an agreement with a Member in this respect. We believe that the success of one national policy is that while in 2009 there was 9 billion forints in national politics, more than 100 billion forints in 2020. From this we can support the diaspora Hungarians and the Hungarian communities in the Carpathian Basin, so we can also support the Székely community. He mentioned the issue of autonomy in Szekler, in which the position of the Hungarian Government has remained unchanged since 2010. We support the autonomy efforts of the Szeklers, and we believe that the autonomy efforts which are visible across Europe and which have resulted in results, so that autonomy structures have already been created, have also strengthened the mother country in most places, so that the country there has also been strengthened. So, in fact, this is not a question of reducing statehood, but also of strengthening public structures can be served by a supported act of autonomy. We hope that the Romanian state will also have that insight. He mentioned the European Citizens' Initiative for the equality of cohesion policy, regions and the sustainability of regional cultures. The government supports this civil society initiative in the same way as it did earlier on the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative. Thank you for the statements of support in this respect, and thank you for your attention. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that we once thought that, among other things, the benefit of EU accession will be that the protection of national minorities will be resolved through the EU institutional system and through this network. We've had very bad experiences in recent years. What we see is that the European Union institutions are struggling with these initiatives relating to national minorities wherever they can. In this, we would like to ask for the help and lobbying of all Members of Parliament and all parties so that we can make a difference in this respect at European level. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-10-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, also spoke before the agenda.
u2020-03-10-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A woman's day has passed again, a year has passed, when the government and opposition have not found a common voice in order to create equal opportunities for women. It's not a left or a right, and it's not a liberal or a conservative question, it's a social interest. In the long term, countries where equality between women and men is not adequately ensured are on a much lower path of growth, so I would argue that if objective sense of justice, rule of law standards, international obligations, equal treatment and equal dignity could not motivate the government to restore the principle of equal treatment, then at least you could be guided by the interests of the national economy. Why do I say that? Because you are saying, my honourable members of the Government, that you have created a family-friendly government. On the other hand, I argue that a family government cannot be created if women's opportunities are limited in a society. According to a survey published by the World Economic Forum a long time ago, there is no place in Europe where women would start from a more disadvantaged situation than in Hungary. This is the survey which examines women's access to political positions, their role in economic positions, their potential in health care and education systems. From 141 countries, we have reached 102nd place, and countries such as Azerbaijan, Armenia, and Cambodia have reached a better position. There is no European country, including Albania and Ukraine, where we could have achieved better in Europe, unless we took Turkey into the ranks of European countries, and then we were able to prevent them, because they finished 130 out of 141 countries. Even among the Central and Eastern European countries and in the rankings of Central Asian countries, Hungary was the last place ahead of Tajikistan only. I would like to tell you that alumni research has shown for years that more women and perform better in higher education institutions in Hungary than men, yet we see career breaks. What we see is that the labour market is about priced for childbearing, and it simply shows women a lower growth path as individuals as well as at social level. The whole free world is looking for a way out of this situation, because in this situation, more societies have found themselves. Our fellow North Europeans may have found a good solution, and many try to learn from them. [[9.50]] This is the admission of men to the baby's care tasks after having children, either to stay at home or to improve the balance sheet statistics of unpaid work by restoring the division of labour within the family. This reduced the number of divorces on the basis of statistics, increased the bonding between fathers and children, increased the bonding experience within the family, and also started to reduce the disadvantage of mothers on the labour market. I therefore argue that so far Hungary has chosen the wrong methods to restore equality of rights between women and men and the principle of equal dignity and equal treatment. I think that if the government is serious about wanting to become a family government, it is also important to think seriously about the issue that all women have the right to equal treatment. Systematic discrimination includes not only disadvantages in the labour market, not only in educational institutions and health institutions, but also in women's perspective, but also, for example, maternity violence, which is unfortunately not mentioned in this House, although there are a lot of civil society organisations fighting for women's rights. I think that if mothers can expect to find themselves facing a worse quality of life after having a child, we cannot talk about the government of families. We cannot talk about equality between men and women in favour of oppression. The many-dimensional refusal of equal dignity will always result in a woman working in Hungary for the same social respect as a man. And please, whoever responds to my words, do not understand that I am debating respect for men or the dignity of men. I'm arguing this isn't a woman's case. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is in a social interest: we must restore equality of rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-03-10-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2020-03-10-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, For us, equality of rights between men and women, equal dignity, is a fundamental moral issue. Obviously, our internal belief is that all legislation, all measures, must serve this purpose. That is why we considered it important to include this in the Fundamental Law, which you do not support. You have not yet come here to talk about this issue, to exchange ideas in Parliament, when Parliament has debated and decided that the rights of men and women are equal. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Moreover, the Fundamental Law empowers Parliament and the government to take specific measures to ensure, inter alia, positive discrimination between women and other groups, and this does not conflict with the prohibition of discrimination. For example, we have also made the rules for 40 women, that after 40 years of service and child rearing, women and mothers can retire with a discount, but they have not voted for this on the opposition side either. Nor in the Fundamental Law, they were not even willing to argue about it, they were not even voted in favour of it, and then women did not vote for more favourable measures for women than 40. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and From your words I felt that if you were looking for a place to make Hungarian people, Hungarians look bad. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think there are many points where exactly good news about Hungary can be said. You said that the better the situation of women, the more men take their part in their activities at home in relation to child rearing, and how bad this situation is in Hungary, and that we should improve that, and we should catch up with Europe and similar horse-zunges, which you will always tell us, honourable Member. There's only one thing he didn't get: the data on this. After all, if you look at the extent to which and how much in Hungary you can see that this is higher in Hungary, if you look at how much of this part of the European Union's men's share of this kind of child education, childcare, homework and cooking is taken away. So what you have demanded is how good it would be for men in Hungary to do their share of housework at least in accordance with the EU average, thank God, while the EU rate is 68 percent, in Hungary 70 percent; in Hungary this rate is higher, honourable Member. I ask that, where the performance of the Hungarian people justifies and supports our common goal, that, indeed, men and women should have equal opportunities in the labour market and at home, live their everyday lives in the spirit of equal dignity and mutual love, if, somewhere, we are ahead of Europe, be proud of this! Do not say that we have to bring in our disadvantages when these conditions are much better in households in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You said that the last year has gone by without doing anything to reduce, for example, the wage gap between men and women and there was no consensus between these parties. Who voted to reduce the wage gap? Fidesz-KDNP, for example, when we voted in the family protection action plan that mothers with four children, who obviously spent several years at home raising four children, did not make any progress in their careers, so their wages are lower than if they did not have children, do not pay personal income tax for the rest of their lives, thus reducing the wage gap. And you voted for it here in Parliament? No. And now you stand up and say that unfortunately there was no consensus to take such wage differential measures. Well, there was no consensus because you didn't vote for it. We voted for it, you didn't vote for it. And then you say there's no consensus and no progress. On the one hand, there is progress, but it is not because of you, honourable Member. Just like the women 40, you didn't support it here in Parliament. I do not understand why you have not been able to support the measures of the family protection action plan discussed in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I mentioned yesterday, you have joined the faction of the Democratic Coalition whose leader, the party's president and its group leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, entered into the memory of many, among others, by saying that many would like to replace their old wives. And you have joined this party, this party's faction! And then he said that women should be given more dignity. [[Noise, interruptions from DK benches.]] Or I would quote literally what he said about his fellow Members in 2009 about the composition of the EP list of the MSZP. He said that the European Parliament elections are not a beauty contest, we must send experts to Brussels, we are not looking for Miss Hungary... [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] You've had these kinds of manifestations, and you're going to join this party, this faction! And then he says that women should be treated with greater respect when you joined this former Prime Minister's parliamentary group. The faction that, in 2013, when we could have decided on contact violence, was represented by [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] you have not supported such an amendment to the Criminal Code, honourable Member. Again, for your part, these are just words, just words, but we have turned our conviction from internal beliefs into action here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-10-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda, with the title of the Presidential Priorities of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As you know, last year I was elected president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I thank you very much here, too, for all the congratulations and support for this work, and I thought it was only fair because I was elected as a member of the Hungarian delegation to this position, that I would also like to report from time to time in the Hungarian Parliament on what I am doing and on what priorities I organise the work of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly this year. I would like to point out in advance that there has been a very good cooperation with three ministries in this regard: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Home Affairs, as these wallets are the ones that deal with NATO issues in Hungary as well. In my priority list or in the working schedule that I have compiled for myself as president, I have tried to take full account of Hungary's national security or security policy priorities in this working order, because if a Hungarian politician is already leading this organization, then perhaps it is worth giving such a taste if I may put it this way for this one-year work, as my mandate will expire in December of this year. And now allow me to say the priorities, the main points that will be decisive this year in the context of NATO Parliamentary work. The first and perhaps the most important thing is that I would like to strengthen the transatlantic relationship, the importance of this, because there is also a lot of debate in Europe about how, to what extent, who should be involved in guaranteeing security. In this there are conflict areas, there are different positions and views, regardless of which we believe and I personally believe that the transatlantic relationship, the strong involvement of the United States in guaranteeing security, will be essential in Europe's life and in guaranteeing Europe's security. [[10.00]] The second priority is that NATO is not only a military-political alliance, but also a community of values, which is why we need to represent this community of values and these values together and try to do so in my work. The third, as I have already said, is a very useful and good debate on these security policy issues in Europe today and in the NATO framework, and a reflection process has also been launched within NATO, led by NATO's Secretary-General. I have had the opportunity to negotiate with him in recent weeks, and we agreed that members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly could participate in this work in an institutional way. I would just like to say this because I have a number of other fellow Members in the Hungarian Parliament delegation of NATO, so in Hungarian: we will have the opportunity to influence what is happening to NATO, what is our vision for ourselves, and I am counting on the active contribution, ideas and suggestions of Hungarian Members. The fourth priority I would like to mention is Russia and Russia's actions. We see Russia's actions as a threat to NATO Member States in many cases. Therefore, we will have a number of proposals, committee meetings or reports that will deal with either the arms modernization of Russia or other issues. The next priority concerns Ukraine. This has already been discussed before the agenda today. It seems to me that in many places this fatigue has appeared with regard to Ukraine. Many believe that Ukraine is a frozen conflict, there is nothing we can do, and that, in fact, NATO's open door policy is one of the important principles, but many believe that Ukraine has no opportunity to join the European Union or NATO. I think that this position must be clearly rejected and that we must stick to the article appearing in the NATO Treaty, which is that NATO can be joined by any sovereign state at its own discretion and meet only one criterion, namely the recruitment criteria. And when that happens, that country can join NATO. The next priority I would like to draw your attention to is China. China is also seen as an opportunity and a challenge, and there is growing Chinese influence. This also concerns security policy, the economy or modernisation, innovation. And I would like to mention two other points, one of which is the Western Balkans. I was also in Northern Macedonia during the ratification of the NATO accession treaty, and I was able to speak in Parliament. I think that this is a priority for Hungary, too, so that the Western Balkans can be integrated into the European Union and NATO as soon as possible. And the last thing I want to do is inform society as much as possible about it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What's going on in the NATO Parliament. This is also our top priority, and I would like to make this type of information known to the Parliament as I move forward in this work. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. On behalf of the government, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó will answer.
u2020-03-10-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We think it is particularly important that a Hungarian Member of Parliament can take the position of President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly at a time which is now practically occupied with the debate on the future of NATO, since we have heard the views of the leaders of very large and strong NATO countries on the state of NATO. These were generally more negative than positive opinions. We believe that NATO remains one of the most important pillars of Hungarian foreign policy as the world's most successful, largest military alliance. At the same time, there is no doubt that in a constantly changing world, day by day, or hour by hour, NATO must also adapt to the new circumstances, because obviously the current security challenges and security challenges that were in this world when NATO was created are not in a thank-you relationship. In English: security challenges, even related to cyber security, related to global terrorist threats, these security challenges must somehow shape NATO's operational structure, so I think it is important that we Hungarians are strongly represented in these debates. Therefore, of course, the President can count on our political support for this activity. Hungary, like other NATO countries, has made serious commitments in Wales, whereby by 2024 the defence budget should reach 2 percent of GDP. We are not there yet, but we are making good progress according to the set timetable, so we will, of course, meet this objective by 2024 at the latest. However, we talk little about the fact that we have not only accepted this one obligation in Wales, but also another, namely that within the defence budget, 20% of expenditure is spent on minimum development. And I'm happy to report to you here, although I don't want to embellish with foreign feathers, but given the performance of the Ministry of Defence last year, for the first time in the past year, we were able to say that we fulfilled one of the two Welsh commitments, because last year we spent more than 20 percent of our defence expenditure on development. I think it's a big deal. As far as the Western Balkans are concerned, Mr President has also spoken about this. We are consistent supporters of NATO enlargement, just as we are in the case of EU enlargement. With regard to Montenegro, we also tried to take the lead, to be loud and to help Montenegro. We did the same thing with Macedonia, now with northern Macedonia. We are pleased that there is only one ratification left, and we hope that it will be done as soon as possible, and thus Northern Macedonia will also become a member of NATO. We hope that NATO will set a small example for the European Union that enlargement policy can be a success story. We are also particularly present in the Western Balkans, and the Hungarians, 400 of our soldiers, serve the security aspect of this in Kosovo, perhaps less to be explained here in this House, and we will now extend this 400 to another 60 people, which will lead us to apply for the command post. We consider it important to strengthen the fight against terrorism within NATO. The effects of the US-Talib agreement are being analysed for now. In particular, we are analysing the impact of this on our previous decision to increase our current quota in Afghanistan of 100 by another 70 people. And if I may, Mr President, the House Rule has not given me the opportunity to respond to the reactions I have given to my speech before the agenda. I would like to say to Mr Kocsis-Cake that the meeting at the top level, i.e. the meeting of President Zelensky and Prime Minister Orbán, really depends on the conditionality on a Ukrainian side that we can reach practical agreements at the meeting on 26 March. We think that it is important to meet at the highest level, because that is where we see the best chance of solving this issue. And how we can cooperate with the other countries whose minority lives in Ukraine: well, it seems that we have chosen different tactics, which has already been pointed out by almost all my fellow Members. We believe from our own experience, Mr honourable Member, honourable Members, that if we do not have any fingerboards, then we are from the very point of view that we were the loudest supporters of the entry into force of the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement and the entry into force of the Ukrainian visa waiver, five days later the law which began to take away the rights of use of languages from the Hungarians in education was passed through the Ukrainian Parliament. So it is extremely important to have a fingerboard that can be used in an international policy where appropriate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] capable of achieving results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the governing parties and the Jobbik benches.]]
u2020-03-10-34	Thank you, Secretary of State Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, Mr János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, also spoke before the agenda, with the first title on the security of the nation.
u2020-03-10-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to welcome you with great respect on the Szekler Day of Freedom. At the beginning of this year, probably few people thought that Europe, including Hungary, would face such security challenges in the new year. [[10.10]] The strengthening of illegal migration and the coronal virus epidemic are now putting the states of Europe on the line. Since the announcement by Turkey of the opening of western borders for migration to Europe on 28 February, everyone has been watching that Greece can hold the fort and, if so, for how long. We have four questions now. On the one hand, could the Greek-Turkish and Turkish-Bulgarian border stop the mass of people falling from the east to Europe? Two: the Greeks and Bulgarians can defend the eastern borders of the European Union on their own merits, if not, what and how much help do they need? And in addition to assistance, what steps must Hungary take within its own borders in order to guarantee the safety of its own citizens? These are key issues for the future of Hungary, and the problem will not disappear on its own. No illusions: the existence or absence of migration does not depend on President Erdoğan circumventing the migration card in order to achieve his current geopolitical goals. Europe's coral is ageing, and in the Middle East there has been a huge population explosion in recent years and decades. Europe, including us Hungarians, must prepare for a long-term crisis and changes of historical importance. We are now facing another test of strength in 2020. You know it, and I know that the migratory pressure has not stopped since then, that is, it has not stopped since 2015, it has only diminished, and in the coming weeks there will be another earthquake. A few days ago, I had the pleasure of visiting the other side of that technical border lock with my fellow Member Hubay. Hungarians living on the other side of the southern border, Magyarkanizsán, Törökkanizsa, Martonos and Horgos, have been forced to learn on their own skin in recent years that there is no one-off solution to the challenges of illegal migration. Migration routes are constantly changing, trafficking networks are constantly searching for a gap in the shield, and the groups heading to Western Europe are always moving towards the lowest resistance. You must always be able to take a new step on this particular chessboard, or we will be the weakest link in the chain, and we will be considered the gateway. For the sake of this country, I therefore ask you not to fall into pride now, in 2020. Don't consider this matter settled or solved, because it's not. As we propose, our proposals for the restoration of the border guards and the state support of the local government's field guards will be adopted in the interests of the country's security. In addition to illegal migration, there is another major challenge that we have to face, and this is the coronal virus epidemic. The person who was in this House and Chamber yesterday could see and hear what has been whispered around us for some time: Hungary is not only the ten million prime ministers, not just the ten million captains of the soccer association, but also the ten million countries of the virologist. I don't want to continue this fantasy fair here in the House, I don't want to be more expert than the expert. I think that the best way to deal with this crisis is for everyone to do their job, theirs, and theirs, as best they can. The government should govern, the professional should take care of it, and the politician should make some good political proposals. As the epicenter of the epidemic approaches us, so are the issues surrounding us in the fields of labour law, health, security and administration. Therefore, I propose that the Hungarian Parliament establish a quarantine law, in which it lays down the most important epidemiological regulations, and that a series of seven-partisan negotiations be launched between us. There are cases in vain smile so compulsively and sarcastically undersecretaries of state that are beyond parties, tribes and trenches. The fact that Hungarian people can know their lives, their families, their values is such a matter. The issue of national security is not a matter of party politics. This case has no color; it's not red, it's not blue, it's not green, it's not orange. In all this spirit, I would like to ask for your cooperation, and, if I may, I would like to add one more thing to the speech before the agenda. I came to the Parliament today on a busload of Üllő roads on my way to the subway, but I read on my smartphone that all Italy was closed, 60 million people were quarantined. We've got the virus and the plague on our hands. I know that this is not your competence, but the Prime Minister's, with all due respect, to the Professor's actions for the health of Hungarian people in recent decades, so please be kind. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] consider and consider that Miklós Kásler should leave the office of Minister of Health. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-36	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó will respond to what has been said.
u2020-03-10-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let us thank the hundreds and thousands of Hungarian soldiers and police officers here in this House, who have been protecting Hungary's southern border 24/7 since 2015, who have thwarted and frustrated dozens of attempted burglaries on a daily basis. If you were at the southern border, you could also see that there was a section where for geographical and natural reasons a fence could not be built. The military and police presence there is spectacular and effective, and the borders of Hungary are constantly protected by our police and our soldiers, who prevent illegal immigrants from coming to Hungary. At the same time, it is necessary to thank hundreds of doctors and nurses, even thousands, who have been working hard in recent days and weeks to protect Hungary, to protect Hungarian people and to protect the health of Hungarian people. Once in a while, there's the least place for a political mood. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, Europe, the European Union, and thus Hungary faced the most serious challenge in the history of the European Union, the mass, illegal and uncontrolled migration processes. Over the last five years, we have debated this issue a lot in the European Union, and we have also debated this issue a lot here in the Hungarian Parliament. We had an argument because there were parties and some of our fellow Members who said that the migration crisis did not exist, the migratory pressure was long gone. If you have been to the southern border, as you have said, you can be quite aware that this is not the case, the migratory pressure has been constantly on us for the past five years, and once again, thanks to the Hungarian police and Hungarian soldiers, that we have not felt anything physically about this within the country. The European Union is now acting as if it were surprised by what is happening at the Turkish-Greece border. This is hypocrisy, it is hypocrisy, given the fact that it was possible to know precisely the intent of the Turkish Government and the Turkish President, who kept speaking about it openly: either there will be conditions in Syria that allow a significant part of the four million immigrants in Turkey to return home or open the gates to Europe. This should not have been a surprise, for months, at least six months, to hear the completely public Turkish statements on this. And when we met with the European Union's foreign ministers in Zagreb last weekend, we remembered the debates in 2015. There were five of the current 27 at the time. At the time, when we Hungarians said that the external borders must be protected, that a fence must be built, that Europe can only come into law, then, you may remember, we have been fascistized, Nazid, called the appendix of Europe; we can remember that neighbouring countries already have actors who are nowhere in political life, or who have returned since then, how they said about us. This is the position of the European Union today, because last week the Council of Ministers of the Interior and the Council of Foreign Ministers have adopted precisely the decision not to tolerate illegal entry, the external border must be protected, and everyone must do everything they can to ensure that Schengen and European rules apply. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, You know very well that Turkey will have four million immigrants. If a significant part of these starts, the situation can very easily arise that hundreds of thousands of them will appear at the southern border of Hungary. Because let's not forget that the Western Balkans route is already saturated, 120 to 150 thousand illegal immigrants are currently on the Western Balkans route. If another hundred thousand masses or hundreds of thousands of masses appear, there is, unfortunately, a very serious chance that the first physical barrier they face will be on the southern border of Hungary. [[10.20]] Of course, it would be good to avoid this phenomenon, but I would like to underline here, honourable Member, that we will protect Hungary's border, the police and the soldiers are at the border, and under no circumstances can anyone enter the territory of Hungary illegally, just as they have not yet entered. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-38	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, leader of the KDNP faction, applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled:, The New Challenges of Our Self-Protection.
u2020-03-10-39	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the particular position that the Minister's reply could have been to my speech, but I am sure that he will find something to say to you in the next five minutes. I feel that saying something new in this House a few weeks ago about the migration crisis would have been a great challenge, since we have already said everything. But there are indeed two issues that are being pushed here, as it is a novelty: on the one hand, Turkey has opened its doors to Europe and, on the other hand, what the Minister mentioned earlier in the Council of Ministers of the Union, namely the Foreign Ministers and Home Affairs Ministers, said what they have never said before that Europe's borders must be protected against mass migration. That's what the biggest attraction said, by the way. And that we have done this for five years is also a fact, but now the Greeks have received support and recognition, and we have received criticism, slander, reproach. There are some issues that cannot be avoided in relation to the migration crisis, and we cannot pass them without saying a word. One is the question of culture. There are two different cultures involved; one is a strong, aggressive culture, and the other is a weakened culture that has lost its self-defense reflex. They obviously know which two they're talking about. And I'd like to ask you whether there is an ideal, philosophical, ideological reason for this weakening. And we have to say there is. When someone reads Karl Popper's writings, they meet the foundation of this idea. This philosopher had a disciple who listened to his lectures, whom we know, because he is implementing this ideology in Europe today through his funds. Western European society is infected with this, and that's what weakened its self-defense reflex. We know, and let's name it: this is the theory of open society. But there is one other issue that we should mention in relation to culture: the most suitable countries for receiving refugees are neighbouring countries rooted in a similar culture, as Turkey has done, and we hope that it will continue to do so. But in other Islamic countries, even to a lesser extent, we have it. Another question, since I said that there are inevitable issues, is that which also serves our own protection, but is also our moral duty: it is a matter of local help. This is also a question in which Hungary has set an example, but the countries of Western culture are still lagging behind. Let us think that, in addition to the interests, this is indeed our duty, for we have always said that in the Christian Democratic view we have dual responsibilities, self-defense and help those who are actually persecuted. The best, even one, way to do this is to help locally, which can and should be effective, if necessary military, economic or humanitarian. And if we look at what the countries of Western culture have done in the countries of origin, then we must say that it has not been effective, because if we think of the Arab Spring and many other phenomena, the result has been that a line of protection has ceased, be it any country, I will not classify them now, but the protection from the migration flood has ceased. So these two issues, which are important from culture, are that the two cultures cannot live together, because if they try, sooner or later one wins and which wins, it is obvious, and the other will sooner or later suffer displacement from its own territory. I believe that these new questions are now raising fundamental questions, which will obviously be answered by Minister. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Péter Harrach. On behalf of the Government, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó will respond.
u2020-03-10-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I think it's worth getting clean about border protection. Everyone has a legitimate expectation against Greece to protect the external borders of the European Union and the Schengen area. If I want to reach back to school, this is not a industrious task, but a mandatory homework task, which is also required by EU rules and the rules of membership of the Schengen area. The rules of membership of the Schengen area provide that it is the responsibility of the country at the external border to cross its border only in a regular manner, with appropriate documents, at designated border crossing points, during opening hours. In Hungarian, it is necessary to ensure that the external border of the Schengen area can only be crossed in a regular manner. This includes the fact that any type of crossing on the green border is illegal, irregular. Just to highlight, Mr Group leader and honourable Member, here, in response to the previous speech, that we still cannot put debates in parentheses in the European Union about how to deal with the issue of migration, because despite the images we see every day about the Greek border, last week we had to debate in the Council of Foreign Ministers that it could be described as illegal border crossings, because, according to the foreign ministers of some countries, one person cannot be illegal. Of course, no one claims that, but his actions, for example, concerning the violation of the border between two peaceful countries, between two safe countries, are illegal, illegal, illegal, based on national and international regulations. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that international law says that if someone has to flee from their own country, they can flee to the first safe country and stay there temporarily until the reasons for their escape are removed. So, nowhere does international law give me the opportunity to think that I want to go to this particular country, and it's true that I have to violate the borders of 13 peaceful countries, but I'm going there. International law doesn't allow that to happen anywhere. So border protection is a dog's duty for each country, so we encourage the Greeks to use all legal means to protect their own borders. If necessary, a water cannon should be used, if necessary, then tear gas should be used, this is natural. If this is done in a way compatible with international and national standards, it must be seen as a means of border protection, because we Hungarians remember exactly what it is like to organise migrants on the border; we remember exactly what it is like to attack police officers from the territory of another country protecting their sovereignty and borders; and we also remember exactly what it is like when international liberal mainstream media and politics constantly produce false news about it. So if anyone is, then we feel the Greeks' situation. That is why we can say with a calm conscience that, based on Hungarian experiences and Hungarian achievements, they must protect the external borders of the European Union and the Schengen area. I would also like to say that there was also a debate in the Council of Foreign Ministers on how to cooperate with the Western Balkan countries: managing or stopping migration. The same debate is still the same after five years, even after we face potential migration pressures of hundreds of thousands or millions. And we still had to argue, and we had to threaten to veto, so that the resolution does not involve us working with the Western Balkans to manage migration, because we do not want to cooperate in what we want to do to stop migration. [[10.30]] And if this had been decided by the European Union five years ago, we might not be in this new challenge today. On the subject of the speech by the honourable Head of the Group, I can say that I fully understand, understand, and agree with the concerns that you are expressing, and I agree with all of these because the experience shows exactly what you are talking about. Over the past five years, parallel societies have been created in many Western European countries, with all their cultural, security, political and other risks, and we need to see a loud minority constantly forcing their will to a civilization that has lived in a given area for centuries and thousands of years. For example, how can we interpret the cross from the top of the statue of Pope John Paul? Just as such pressure, not to mention that in the last five years, more than thirty major terrorist attacks have been committed by people from migration backgrounds in Europe. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So I think that, for the sake of Europe's security and the security of European civilisation, Europe must follow the Hungarian migration policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-42	Thank you, Secretary of State Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group, asked for an address on the subject. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-10-43	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In the last week, the corona virus has also appeared in Hungary. So far, 12 people have been diagnosed with the infection at home: 8 Iranians, 1 British and 3 Hungarian citizens; these morning, fresh official news, these numbers were collected based on them. Ladies and gentlemen, It is growing throughout Europe and Central Europe, the number of infected is constantly increasing, and the virus is present in almost every neighbouring country. Fortunately, we are still dealing with individual cases in Hungary, and the aim of all of us is to prevent the development of group diseases from becoming a focal point in Hungary, the aim is to prevent this. Thank you for the continuous work of the operational tribe, which brings together the activities of the various fields of expertise, in order to protect the health of Hungarian people: they are on 24-hour alert. Hungary not only follows and implements WHO recommendations, but also takes action beyond that. We see that the members of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, the legislators, that all the necessary conditions for protection are provided, the appropriate number of medical and nursing staff, the tools and legislation are available. I think there is a complete consensus in the Hungarian Parliament that if we had to amend the law, this would be necessary, we will do so without delay. We, all of us, have first priority in the lives and safety of people. We understand people's fears and concerns, because we are facing an unknown problem, which is why we consider it important that, in addition to daily information, the government has created a number of greens and launched an information campaign. This focuses primarily on prevention, to draw attention to how to reduce the risk of infection, but also to what is very important in case of complaints. Ladies and gentlemen, Doctors will examine all potential infected patients who are justified in carrying out laboratory tests. In the case of infected people, an epidemiological investigation and contact research will be initiated on the basis of a strict professional protocol. We also welcome the fact that the government has taken comprehensive measures to prevent the coronal virus: it has made recommendations to both the population and the educational institutions, the airports in Budapest and Debrecen, and thousands of people have already been examined at road border crossing points. Here, too, it is important to stress that anyone who does not cooperate and does not submit to the epidemiological measures is in breach of the law. If a person fails to comply with the rules and thus infects someone, it is a serious assault, so a person commits serious assault, and if a person dies because of it, it means assault that causes death, which has serious consequences. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Really?]] It is important to stress this because of students from abroad who are studying here. At the same time, we continue to have a shared responsibility to ensure that there is no panic in Hungary, in this we expect all parties and the media. Fake publicity is a crime, and action must be taken against those who do it very strictly. As far as politics is concerned: a week and a half ago, every faction received thorough information on the measures taken and the preparations in the Ministry of the Interior, and since then parties have received detailed daily reports. We are therefore asking everyone, we are asking the opposition not to seek political benefit, but to seek cooperation. And finally, once again, we would like to thank doctors and nursing healthcare workers for their sacrifice and readiness. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond to what has been said.
u2020-03-10-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the last 24 hours, the number of infected people has increased throughout Europe and Central Europe, and the coronal virus has appeared in almost every neighbouring country. The operational tribe meets every day, at present, at this moment, taking measures, on which it regularly informs the public, regularly informs Hungarian people. All necessary conditions for protection are available, with a sufficient number of doctors, nurses, tools and laws, financial resources, money, steeds, weapons, all available. [[Gergely Harvesto: There are only no doctors, because they are quarantined!]] I would also like to thank you again for the sacrifice of health care professionals working in defense, prevention, the work of doctors and nurses. Thank you for the work of the police, who are also involved in the fight. Human life, people's lives and safety are our first priority. In Hungary, we are talking about individual cases. At present, the aim is to prevent the development of group diseases. As you said, so far 12 people have been diagnosed with infection: 8 Iranians, 1 British and 3 Hungarian citizens, all under quarantine. All potential infected patients who are justified will be tested for a laboratory. In the case of infected persons, an epidemiological investigation and contact research have been carried out according to strict professional protocol. We've had 362 lab tests so far. In addition to Hungary, 7 Hungarians are under surveillance, and 1 Hungarian infected person is known, he is in a Japanese hospital and is asymptomatic. The government has taken comprehensive measures to prevent a coronal virus epidemic and to protect itself at airports and on roads, as you said, increased controls are being carried out by the authorities. The government has also launched an information campaign to raise awareness of prevention. We can say that, given the facebook interface and all surfaces, all Hungarian citizens have been reached with this information, this information campaign. The operational tribe has decided that the Iranians not cooperating in the investigation will be taken into foreign police custody and deported from the country. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Hungary's laws are binding not only on Hungarian citizens but also on foreign citizens. If a person does not submit to the epidemiological measures, he commits an offence and bears the consequences. On a previous proposal from the operational tribe, the Iranian visa issue was suspended indefinitely. This was supplemented by a ban on entry for Iranian nationals with issued but not yet used visas. As announced by the operational tribe, the government will shortly present a recommendation on sport and mass events. The restriction on the absence of flights from airports in Northern Italy to Budapest or from the international airport in Debrecen has entered into force. The Government canceled the central ceremony on 15 March on the previous proposal of the operational tribe. [[10.40]] The EMMI also introduced a visit ban in hospitals and nursing homes, inpatient health institutions, social and disability care institutions, and calls for health workers to suspend or postpone their planned travel abroad at a later date. A new plan of measures has been issued to large public companies, the BM has issued an epidemiological plan for prison institutions and can only be abandoned after individual applications have been approved by the institutions in the case of those who are entitled to do so. At St. László's Hospital, the evacuation of liberable care facilities has begun so that they can continuously secure the necessary facilities. It is important to know that schools have also been notified of the recommendations. Parents can see that through the e-book. The operational staff asks schools to postpone class trips as far as possible, the export of protective equipment and mouth masks is subject to authorisation. The ITM has once again issued a recommendation to higher education institutions. We've sealed off the transit zone for protection against the corona virus. The government's firm position is that the huge wave of migrants from Turkey will also significantly increase the risk of epidemics. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In that regard, I wanted to inform you of the fight against diseases caused by the coronal virus. Hungary, the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to make this struggle effective for the health of Hungarian people. Thank you for your statements of support from the parliamentary parties. We consider this as an issue in which we consider every proposal, every good proposal, and we are confident that we can act effectively against the coronal virus. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-10-46	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We'll get back to work. It follows from the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses for the purpose of indicating the place of origin. a general debate on the draft law amending Act I of 2010 on the registration procedure until closure. Presentation by Members Alpár Gyopáros, Máté Kocsis and László Tasó T/9473. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The homeland is the same for all of us, yet different. We have our national identity, but we also have our local identity. The homeland is of equal importance to all of us in one respect, since there is an administrative formality, the place of birth is a natural person identification data. However, the birthplace is important not because we need an identification data in itself, and not because there is an objective fact, the place where we were born, but because there is a place where we came from, where we learned to walk, to talk, which provided security while growing up, and where we first gained experience in our lives, we felt pain, we learned and loved. That's where our roots are. That's where we get the basics of our personality. Whether we acknowledge it or not, our identity is fundamentally shaped by the homeland. After the 1950s, with the spread of institutional births, the place of birth in many cases is no more than the actual place of birth, but not our homeland. It's nothing more than a stamp that technical conditions, as there are no hospitals in every village and city, are attached to us by the state administration, which we will wear for the rest of our lives. At the same time, the mother and her child also went home in these cases, and there was a legitimate need for the first home, i.e. the homeland in a deeper sense, to appear on our supporting documents as an essential part of the development of identity. That is why we recommend that the place of origin, if not identical to the place of birth, should also be on our ID card. There may be a number of questions as to exactly what is the purpose or rather the significance of this proposal, who is concerned in particular. The answer is extremely simple: those who separate their objective birthplace from their real homeland, i.e. their origin, most of our countrymen, especially the people of the villages. During the social consultations organised in the framework of the Hungarian village, I have the opportunity to listen to the views of the people in the villages, in which they shared their needs for this initiative in countless cases. It cannot be emphasized enough that the government is committed to increasing the potential of Hungarian settlements and, in particular, to ensuring the survival of the villages. In order to achieve this basic goal, the program "Hungarian Village" was launched. Let us recall that the village programme directly affects one third of Hungary's population, and I believe that thanks to its results it will accelerate the reduction of the disadvantages of small settlements, thus ensuring access to services, public services to meet basic needs, and the development of improvements that will make our villages attractive to the people living on the ground, as well as to those wishing to settle in villages. I am convinced that together with the Hungarian small settlements, we will be able to make the choice between villages and metropolises not between quality of life and quality of life, but between lifestyle and lifestyle. The Hungarian village programme has a wide range of support systems, from the development of the side road network through housing support, the village CSOK, to the development of small or larger amounts of development aimed at improving local quality of life, to the support of village municipalities, village parishes and village civil society organisations. At the same time, respect for rural life, which is expected and deserved, can and should not only be achieved through infrastructure improvements or direct financial support, but also through legislative action, which, in particular, recognises the emotional attachment to the birthplace when the villager so requests. The appearance of this must not be a bureaucratic obstacle, which is why the legislative amendment before you has been prepared. Therefore, according to the proposal submitted by me and my fellow Members, a Hungarian citizen who wishes to request the competent authority to state his place of origin in his application for the release of the identity card may be asked to be included in his ID. In this case, the authority issuing the identity card shall record the place of origin in the electronic register or, if not indicated in the register, the settlement in the client's declaration in the ID card. Ladies and gentlemen, Three million of our countrymen live in the villages, and I hope that all of us who represent them in Parliament will hear the request of the villages. I ask you to adopt the proposal. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not three million!]] Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-10-48	Thank you very much, Prime Minister Alpár Gyopáros. I'm going to ask if someone would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2020-03-10-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think we are not going to tell you a big secret that Governor Gyopár and Congressman are wearing two hats in this regard. This is important only to the extent that, as he mentioned, the bill before us, which was presented as an individual parliamentary representative, is closely linked to the objectives of the Hungarian village programme, the coordination of which also belongs to the Commissioner of the Government. This programme is important, in our belief, because this type of government development programme has not been in Hungary since the change of system since it improves the quality of life of people living in the smallest settlements. In fact, since the change of regime, respect for the exception, especially those living in the small settlement, may have seen it as if governments had forgotten about them. Somehow, government priority axes have always developed in such a way that the absorption effect, urbanisation, which shifts people from the smallest settlements to the larger settlements, appears as a general phenomenon in the context of modernisation, is becoming increasingly effective and its negative effects are not offset. We wanted to change this trend after 2018, when the country's economic situation and opportunities ensured that we would launch a programme specifically aimed at improving the quality of life and maintaining the population of the smallest settlements. This is what we called the Hungarian village program, and last year HUF 150 billion of Hungarian budget resources were available for this program. [[10.50]] We have talked about it several times in the Hungarian Parliament about the programme elements, and I do not want to waste time repeating this to you. Of course, from the first moment we knew that this programme, this HUF 150 billion budget resource, which was available for this purpose, was a necessary but not sufficient condition. This makes sense if we can make this budget resource available at least every year. If we think about a ten-year development cycle, we can talk about at least HUF 1500 billion of development resources for the benefit of the smallest settlements. We also need to keep thinking about money and the development of settlements, not all of which are the measures that are the administrative legal barriers and the steps that we have not taken so far in order to strengthen local identities, and we must do so beyond the support of the Hungarian village. So we need to keep thinking about how, in addition to material assistance, we can generate situations in which, as the Commissioner said, the choice between small settlements and urban life forms becomes a question of choice between lifestyles, not a question of choice related to quality of life. We believe from the government's side that the bill before us is specifically designed to serve this purpose, it is specifically included in this scope of action. Indeed, the fact is that I myself may be born in Budapest, I myself do not perceive this problem, but there are undoubtedly millions of people in the country who have this problem as important and real, that the seat of the hospital is indicated in the identification documents or in the databases supporting it as a place of birth. Obviously, there are also document security and data security issues here, so this solution would not be supported on the government side in terms of personal data and address records or the register of birth if the data on the place of birth were exchanged with the data on the place of origin, as fictitious data would be generated in the register. We cannot handle this matter in this way, so this bill, we believe, leaves the data content of the place of birth intact. Thus, the legal consequences remain in the legal system, in the registration system, related to the place of birth data. This is important, among other things, because the birth records and the basic birth records behind them are also stored in connection with the place of birth. So if someone, say, wants to see the basic birth data of their birth, they have to go to the birth registry, because that's where they can get these data. Obviously, we do not want to create legal uncertainty here. The solution proposed by the Members respects the principle of the authenticity of the register, the place of origin appears in the register at the moment, so such data is known in the register, and, as has been said, but if it is not, I would like to say it now, it will also be registered after 1991, but there has been no legal possibility to appear in the identity card. This legislative opportunity is created by the bill before us. Finally, I would like to draw attention to one more thing: that it will continue to be voluntary in the future. Those who claim this, who are important for their local identity, can apply for the indication of the place of origin as a separate data content, and who does not need it, can continue to operate, operate or deal with the usual identity document containing data. The issue of local identities, local local local identity is important, the problems of people living in small settlements are a priority for the government, so we are proposing to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-50	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Member László Tasó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-03-10-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Your Honour, Commissioner of the Government, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! At the beginning of my comment, I would like to look back on the past, also because I would like to confirm here for the last time what a fantastic place the Carpathian Basin is, what a great country it is, where we live, and how much and enormous effort it took to protect our ancestors, our ancestors, to protect this country. When we look back at our studies, we also remember that it took centuries to form this country, this huge space in the Carpathian Basin, to make every corner of it habitable. It was designed to organize villages around the agricultural towns beyond the big cities and to form a unified economic structure throughout the country. They have always envied us in Europe, wanted to chain Hungary to one side or to the German or French interests. We have been able to resist for a long time, thank God. But it was obvious that, after a while, European aspirations would not allow Hungary to be strengthened. However, with the formation of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy... [[For the intervention of Gergely Arató:]] I would like to say that you should wait, and then you can bring up what you have to say. So the point is that the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy showed a country with the power of Hungary and the Kingdom of Hungary that played a balancing role in Europe. When our interests were attacked, and the travesty of European aspirations led the Carpathian Basin to war, it became clear that together the peoples living in the pool could not stay. One thing is certain that Trianon lost and his destiny will forever stamp on Hungary, forever cutting off the connection system with which Hungary was strong. If we remember how the metropolitan rings and the transport connections connected the settlements to the metropolitan cities and the capital, then we know that it is indeed a planned country. The trauma that was measured by fate to the extent of a hundred years has obviously always given us hope, and we could count on it to be possible for rural settlements to catch up in the EU cycle and then in the first, from 2007 to 13. But some of us remember here that the superficial policy of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments was Budapest-centred, 63 percent of the funds were used by the Central Hungary region. Let's not forget that we were confident that maybe a balance, a catch-up opportunity would open up for us, but that didn't happen. This had to wait until 2010 when the Hungarian government started with a new approach, and the majority of the Hungarian Parliament made it clear that all people in Hungary are important, all settlements are important. The programme, which has just been launched, is indeed true, an opportunity and a toolbox that provides a significantly greater opportunity for the inhabitants of the settlements to catch up, not a two-speed Hungary, but for all its citizens to be equal. The fact is that in the former MSZP-SZDSZ rhetoric, the word "rural" has always been pejorative. Besides, we can't think of it any different now, knowing a few of the people sitting here, there's nothing else to take from their comments and their grunts. The fact is that people living in the countryside in Hungary have often been forced to move because of the workplace, because of the housing conditions, regardless of whether they want to stay in their seats or live where they can live, where they are the most beautiful and best, to be connected to the world where they were born, where they want to live. One thing is certain that this law, which is now in front of Parliament, will help and not give rise to magic to strengthen local identity, be good examples for others, and naturally remember those who can take forward the name of the settlement, working from a small place, working from a smaller place to a great deal of achievement. [[11.00]] I think the Monkeys are proud that our Governor Lajos Kossuth was born there, but they are equally proud of the residents of the Sátoraljaújhely, because Lajos Kossuth said that he lived in that town as a student in the New Place, so both settlements can be proud of him. But Söjtör is not known for the fact that the Gyurcsány government ate there and kept the steering seat out there, but Söjtör is famous for the fact that Ferenc Deák, the sage of the homeland, was born there, perhaps on 17 October 1803 if I remember correctly, and I think that there are many people who are proud of where they started in Hungary. The Hungarian countryside has always preserved what held us Hungarians together and held together, preserved our faith, preserved Christianity. The fact is that a help is this amendment of the law, which I must say in any case that I indicated to the Chancellor of that time in 2001, but Hungary had had quite a lot to do at the time, and the country had to be saved from the fall caused by the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, and there wasn't enough attention to this matter. Now we do, and we would like to make it possible, with the help of the Hungarian village programme, with the measures of the government, for everyone from the strengthening Hungarian economy to have the opportunity and opportunity, and I think that the government commissioner managing the Hungarian village programme has the opportunity and the ability to do so, and I think that we can already talk about a successful programme. I would like to ask you to reflect on what it means for a person who started from a small settlement and yet has been able to do great things, and naturally there are a lot of people in Parliament who have, by the way, done so and are so. I'm glad everyone's proud of where they came from, not to deny it, and not to say that I'm not from there, I'm from the nearby big city. By the way, I recognize everyone who has been able to get this far from a place, a small place, a region, there are some here, there are obviously some exceptions among them, some of whom we don't have much to talk about, but time will decide what to say and what to hold. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think they will also tell you about Pope, that he had famous births, obviously I am thinking of Károly Kontra, László Kövér or Zoltán Kovács, not really Ferenc Gyurcsány, but regardless of that, someone may be proud to come from Pápa Ferenc Gyurcsány; otherwise it is a matter of taste and the right of everyone. Nevertheless, we must not take that thing away and the fact that everyone has an important place, for me it is Nyíradony, the most important place, my birthplace, and I think that it is well that everyone has such a nice place in their heart, as I also hope that there will always be a country, and this is Hungary, where the Hungarian people will be the most important, and we believe that we are all interested in this. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Regardless of the fact that people with big faces occasionally mock here, the Hungarian countryside still exists and lives, people living in the Hungarian countryside are able to carry the country on their shoulders, even if not many people in the capital are able to do so. But I trust that this unity, once created by our Founding King and our Patriotic Kings, will remain forever. Thank you for your attention. [[Intercom from the ruling parties: Bravo! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-52	Thank you very much. Welcome. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker for Jobbik, is next. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We've heard wonderful speeches here in the last few minutes, and there's only one small problem: that your activities do not reflect such piety every day for ten years. If, for the first time, you, let's say, have been put on the government, the Fidesz and the KDNP, and the first to bring in such a proposal of legislation, then all good, decent Members will respond to one thing: we vote, we are happy about it. I'll tell you, Congressman Tasó, Alpár Gyopáros, Lawrence Nacsa is not here right now, but I'm sure he'll be back. [[For signal:]] or he's there, he's just talking, of course he doesn't want to hear our words anymore, even though he's always arguing with us. [[Intercoms.]] But the point is that, of course, we are going to vote on this, we have nothing to do with this, but I would like to say to you or to you a few thoughts about when this would have been the case, and if you had brought such a sacred matter before the House, what else you could have done to make sure that people born in the Hungarian countryside had this problem, that you could not have introduced your place of origin into your ID card so far. We used to say that you can take people out of the homeland, but you can never take their homeland out of a person. You, Fidesz Members of KDNP, do not need to explain to us the importance of the homeland and the importance of the homeland. We do not need to explain what it means to be Hungarian, what it means to belong to this nation. I do not like it when Members take over relations with the nation for political gain. You have no right to express, in any way, whatever political, ideological basis you are working, living or voting on, whether you belong to the nation or not. This is your fundamental feature of your political activities, that you are now taking over the homeland, the nation, and the homeland. In 1991, the legislation to which the justification refers is that it made it possible to enter a place of origin in the registers. That was 29 years ago, and you've been a parliamentary party for 29 years. They will explain that in the last 29 years, such a proposal has never been put forward, otherwise they will spend their fourteenth year in Parliament as a party of government, of which ten years by a two-thirds majority. So one day one of you, perhaps my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, because he represents the younger age group, and he really couldn't have asked for this for 29 years, except for the last 6-7-8 years, by his age, but perhaps he can answer why now. Then I would also like to say that it is possible that, on the basis of your activities, while you have been a parliamentary party for 29 or 30 years, and for fourteen years now only 23 percent of society lives in 89 percent of the settlements under 3000. How is that possible? I ask you, please, that you can talk about the sacrament of the Hungarian village program here, only the activities of the governments of the last 30 years have led Hungarian society to either emigrated or to the city. This is the responsibility of governments. Now, after 30 years, it is possible to cosmetics with such legislative proposals that we now give society a psychological, good feeling issue, which is a good thing that in Hungary the first hundred problems of the people are, fortunately, not the issue. Or thank God? Or are we sorry? I don't know. But one thing's for sure: you've proved in ten years that if you bring something here as a sacred cause, it's always going to be something else. I think we'll soon know what this bill was a prerequisite, hallway or whatever it was. I'd like to tell you that I've set up a hypothesis. Let's say there's a 60-year-old male from Balástya, born in Szeged, married to Szombathely, lived there for a long time, now perhaps living in Jacob, and he's 60 years old and a man. And I thought that he was the one whose private pension fund was stolen, he was the one who was deprived of his service pension, he was the one whose wife had been taken away from the traff that had been run for generations, because he didn't have a buddy in politics, he was the one who, because of the foreign exchange loan, simply expanded his house into the ravine with a room, and maybe his father died of hospital infection over the past few years, and you tell this man that now you're going to get a miracle after all these tragedies that you've been able to achieve in the last ten years, you can go there and register his place of origin. For you, then, our society, who have suffered a tremendous amount of difficulties in the last 10 years or in the last 30 years, even though they have been told that there will be a Western quality of life here, not after 30 years, you have promised this after 10-15 years, and now this proposal will be presented as a proposal of the century! [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] Do you know how this was supposed to be performed when it was finally filed after 29 years? We should have said that we've missed this before, and we'd like to make it up to you, and that's it. It's not like we're doing holy texts like this: homeland and nation, and that's where we belong, and the village! [[11.10]] The men have been expelled from the village! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] All I can tell you is that half the pubs in the constituency have closed in four years, so that's not what they are anymore, and when there's no pub in a settlement, that means there's nothing there anymore. [[Noise.]] The problem is that you only go to small settlements where public funds built into concrete on the basis of good relations with the government or with Viktor Orbán are located, but you do not go to places where there are no such politicians from which there are no such politicians, and there are over 3,000 such settlements in the country. So here's what I'm asking of you: a little more modesty. And do not pretend that such a proposal is presented in this House as the only one for society. Missing welfare measure, because you haven't done this in the last ten years without anyone believing you. And once again, considering the legislative process, Mr Orbán, who represents the government and who does not submit it, has given a more qualitative presentation than those who have submitted it. One day I told my fellow Member Tasó that he certainly did not wake up with this one morning to present this proposal, and he told me that so far there had been a struggle for the country that was destroyed by the socialists. But for ten years? ! What you said was that I would just refer you back, and you said that you had already dismissed the IMF in the second to third year of your government. Since then, seven years have passed and, by the way, about 40,000 pages of legislation have been submitted in the last ten years. There's no way he couldn't fit in there. Unfortunately, you pretended to believe anyone on the opposition side that such a proposal was simply submitted out of good faith, simply to make up for something. I don't think you're telling me the truth right now. Since there is not a single sentence in the conditions of the Hungarian village, which is linked to the introduction of the origin of the citizens in the ID card, there is no single set of conditions, which is why it was taken and connected with this question, and then all the advertisements of all their Facebook pages are about us understanding the missing problem of society so that we can now make up for it with this proposal. You know what they could do to replace it? Finally, the question of foreign exchange lending should be implemented on the basis of its fair way. Show me where the personal account of the stolen private pension funds is. Please make up for all those who have lost their trades, for example. Please raise pensions to the minimum, because it's a terrible thing that people have to live their old years on the fast track after 40-45-50 years of work. I'd like you to eliminate the hospital infections, please. May I have a decent education system, please? Please protect our country and not create fear. And after you've done all this, you can come up with this pious style that you've come up with. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-54	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa is the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I was about to speak a little more peacefully here on the subject, and I thought I would only have to respond a little more sharply to Gergely Arató, and I did not think that Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm would also defeat Gergely Arató from demagogy and from a fundamentally good cause. I think we all need to refuse to use any bill here for a ulterior purpose, especially this one. We must also reject the accusation that there is going to be a bill here that I do not know what conspiracy theory the congresswoman has said here will have to be used for something else. And I also refuse to ask us why this is coming here now or why we're dealing with it now. As my fellow Member László Tasó said, he had suggested this earlier, so László Tasó did not wake up this morning and came to his mind, but, let's say, he got up 15 years ago and remembered this. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Then why didn't you do it?]] Madam Congresswoman, you should be glad that we have come this far, that this law is here, and it is appropriate for this spring session to discuss this one law in addition to the other important laws. And we did not say that this is the most important law of all time, nor did we say that this is the law of the century that we would like to present here, and this is the non plus ultra, and the most important bill in this legislative cycle will be this. We have said that this is an important but symbolic proposal that we would like to take over because we consider identity and community important, and you are no longer. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Where do you get that?!]] We see that your rural policy is the reservation of the swimming pool for private purposes in Ozd, which is where your rural policy is implemented. Please allow us not to achieve our rural policy in this way. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Gyomaendrőd!]] What is known is that since 2010, the national government has been committed to improving the quality of life of people living in Hungarian villages and small towns, and this investment, concrete, renovations, in addition to infrastructural improvements or improvements in the quality of life is greatly supported by the strengthening of community and identity. We consider this important in the current global world. In today's urbanised world, we consider it important that the identity, community of people living in small settlements, and the preservation force, are present in their lives. We consider this important. I understand that this is no longer important to you, or that you must comply with all the speeches of your fellow Members sitting next to you, but allow us to consider this important so that a community can express its identity. I would like to give the example of my own mother, who was born in Salgótarján, although she spent the first 15 years of her life in Salgótarján, only three days in the hospital's birth and the hospital's nursery. He spent so much time in Salgótarján, by the way, he was born and raised in a small village in Ipoly, but in his papers he had to have his whole life in Salgótarján, which he had nothing to do with, and I'm telling you, for the first 15 years of his life, he hasn't been there except for his birth, because his identity, his community, his parents, his family, his brothers and sisters didn't tie him there. Therefore, this is an innocent proposal, and it even strengthens the community identity that you once fought for today, unfortunately, it is worn out. We do not know if this is because of Peter James or who, Ferenc Gyurcsány, but this is worn out of you. [[György Szilágyi: Thanks to you! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] You are now conspiring with those who left the Hungarian countryside to crumble, who, by the way, attacked the Hungarian countryside, because Ferenc Gyurcsány and his dear friends of principle have destroyed Hungary with brutal austerity, tax increases and local government debt. Schools were closed in the small settlements, clinics were closed and doctors and educators were chased out of the villages. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You couldn't bring them back!]] 500 kilometers of railway had been cut off in 2007 [[Gergely Harvesto: You didn't open a new one!]] and in 2009, this railway line was already 800 kilometres away. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, from the window of the Small Fork there were no villages, that is the case. Unfortunately, that's the case. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] After 2010, this turned around, and my fellow Member, Alpár Gyopáros, on behalf of the rapporteur, did not modestly mention the programme of the Hungarian village. I think that it is the most important programme of the past 30 to 100 years to improve the quality of life of people living in the countryside, to strengthen the community, to improve quality of life, to improve infrastructure; because we believe that a way of life must be created and that a Hungary should be created where living in villages and small towns does not mean a lower quality of life, or that there are no disadvantages to small urban or metropolitan life forms. That is why our aim is to stop the decline in population and to give villagers access to all the services that their fellow townspeople, the other citizens, have access to. My fellow Members have spoken about the bill for a longer time, but it is really shocking to me that this bill, which I think is identity strengthening, symbolic, and by far not the most important bill in this legislative cycle, but it does have significance, is being attacked by Jobbik, which, I think, is unworthy of this bill as well. Why is it painful for the congresswoman to be able to write it on a person from a village and to reflect on her identity card all her life? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You have a text understanding problem. No one said that! It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It does not reflect which zip code and city the birthing room or hospital was registered to, or where the obstetrics was, in Petőfi Sándor Street, but it can register in its ID card where he belongs in his heart, in his community. Why does it hurt you so much? Why is he attacking us for why we just brought him here, and then why we brought him here in the first place, it's not that important? I don't think that's what you should be focusing on. [[11.20]] Congresswoman! We have talked more about this matter with my fellow Members, Alpár Gyopáros, before the submission. In recent times, young people from local, rural and village have said that they like this idea. We've discussed several times that he was there. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why only now?]] On many occasions, we organized the Academy in Home, Youth, Homeland, with the Christian Democratic Association for Youth, the last time in January Vice-President Gyopáros was also present at such a meeting, where young people welcomed this idea, where they were told that it mattered to them. And they didn't say that it would solve all the problems of their lives, they didn't say that it would solve the issue of employment or business for them, they said that it was a small step that would contribute to the strengthening of their community, their identity. It makes life a little more complete. It doesn't solve it, it doesn't make you a business, it doesn't make you manage in the world of work, or you get competitive language skills, it doesn't solve these issues, it doesn't solve them, and I recommend other measures of the government to the congresswoman's attention. This issue solves an identity-enhancing, community-enhancing question. I think that this bill is right for everyone to be able to support it, because it doesn't hurt anyone, but it hurts a lot for everyone, and if it's good for everyone, why would Jobbik, for example, want to break a bill like that? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: My first sentence was to vote!]] We don't understand this side. [[Zoltán Balczó: Vote!]] But we still think that if someone can preserve their identity... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: My first sentence was to vote! Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Don't yell. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-03-10-56	As weird as it is, this is not the field of dialogue. I understand the honourable Member and the Members; Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, a single Member, bears that name, he can speak to the others in his mind and imagine what he thinks of it. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Here you go.
u2020-03-10-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking of dialogue, the anarchist faction doesn't work for such a bill, because national identity is such a curse for them...
u2020-03-10-58	Congressman, I suggest you focus on the law, okay? [[Defiance.]] And then there'll be more peace.
u2020-03-10-59	I will return, Mr President, only Mr President's word reminded me of a faction sitting here or not present. So there is a question that is a bill relating to national identity, membership of the community and rural life form, and it is basically symbolic, and the opposition parties say that this is not good. Especially the Jobbik. This is the first speech we've heard. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No one said that!]] It is unnecessary that this does not solve the problem of the people in the countryside, but we have not said that it will solve the problem of the people in the countryside. We said we'd take a step in an important direction. If the congresswoman looks at the applications and the results of the Hungarian village programme so far, the number of applications submitted by the right holders above 90 per cent, how many meaningful goals have been achieved in the Hungarian village programme. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: A lot of hunting houses...]] In terms of clinics, civil society organisations, church institutions, service centres and roads, how much has been achieved in the past period, you can see that you cannot accuse us of being against the Hungarian countryside or the Hungarian villages. And in this large package, where obviously improvements in quality of life, infrastructure improvements represent much more weight and value, there is a small symbolic step that my fellow Members have tabled. I don't understand why we have to attack national identity, commitment to the community, get used to this new Jobbik, but we will succeed. We naturally support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Lőrinc, you really don't understand what I'm talking about! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-60	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP is next. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to state that the debate on the proposal is actually turning into a day of debate on the adverse situation in the Hungarian countryside, which was based primarily on the justification of the legislation. I would like to do one more thing on the table, although Lőrinc Nacsa had actually advanced my opinion, because in general he spoke about the opposition's negative attitude; I can tell you honestly that I did not discover this in Andrea Varga-Damm's speech either. He also said that he was in favour of the proposal, but did not consider it to be one of the most important problems. Let me say at the beginning of my speech, on a formal basis, that I support the proposal, so I will vote for it, and I will also ask my fellow political groups to do so. We could do this here, by the way, if, in the explanatory statement, in the committee meeting, in the national exposé and in the speeches of the pro-government speakers, we would not have seen that the debate on the proposal had actually turned into a kind of propaganda text. You were talking about the programme of the Hungarian village, talking about the future of the countryside, how brilliantly and sensationally they strengthen the Hungarian countryside here, and the opposition's representatives, of course, respond to that. Otherwise, the explanatory statement is a very close part of the interpretation of a piece of legislation, and I therefore think that they can do so in a general debate, and I see no problem in this. The Hungarian villages were also discussed specifically in relation to the text of the norm, and this proposal was introduced to strengthen the identity of the people living in the Hungarian villages. I'd like to add one more aspect to the table. I think this is not just about the Hungarian villages. I think that there are a lot of problems in rural areas that are already affecting the big city, which is about health care being what it is, and, for example, a lot of successful and accepted gynecologists have moved to Budapest, for example, where they work and practice there, and there are also a lot of people in the countryside who follow their gynecologist, for example, in relation to a childbearing. So I know a man who is important in a situation like this, so that his unborn child can actually strengthen his local identity with a step like this. So I think the indication of the place of origin is a good, lucky thing. I have indeed encountered such a problem, but I agree that this is not one of the hundred biggest problems affecting the Hungarian countryside. But of course, I am proud of my origin in Miskolc, my birth in Miskolc, and also that my children are Miskolc and Miskolc. So this identity is important to me, too. But speaking of political communication, let us look at what causes this to be necessary. It is also caused by the fact that there are 409 permanently unfilled GP districts, 239 permanently unfilled dental districts. There are drastic differences in the quality of health and hospital care, and otherwise these differences have increased in the last ten years between the countryside and the central areas of the country. In other words, many families move to larger cities in the western part of the country and in the middle areas, in the capital, so that they take steps to maintain their origin and identity. Or a lot of people use health services in central areas, and otherwise they would try to get along where they live. So I think the health situation is miserable, and speaking of the Hungarian countryside, this has to be said. In many places the words of József Ángyán, former Secretary of State, are the same as those which are desirable in terms of agriculture, which represents the strength of the Hungarian countryside. Obviously, he has often referred to the importance of political connections in accessing land in the countryside. In fact, there has been a kind of modern feudalism over the past ten years, which has put the poor in the small settlements in an increasingly difficult position. But regions in the European Union are also being compared from time to time every three years, and I think it is possible to draw conclusions from this. By the way, the data for 2016 were extremely shocking, and the 19-year-olds also show that no region in Hungary has reached the EU average. If the most difficult regions are drawn on a map, it is quite astonishing that there are four Hungarian regions among them. There is no Slovak region among them and there is only one Polish region among the worst regions in the European Union. In fact, the Hungarian regions compete with Bulgaria and Romania, the regions here, which I think is amazing. And don't tell me there hasn't been a very serious negative shift in your time. For the first time in the 2016 survey, the North-Hungarian region was in the last place in the healthcare parameter. In the second-to-last spot! [[11.30]] It's an inadequate certificate of government, and that's how I appreciate it. We need to look at what people think of this in the countryside and how rural health is. So there is indeed a great need for the development of the Hungarian countryside, but this requires a well-thought-out development policy, not spending resources on luxury investments or, where appropriate, extending them, which has been reported in the past. With regard to rail, yes, you have said that rail transport is considered to be a very important force for the rural population. Compared to this, there are also several serious lines of flight thinning and wagon reduction, which obviously does not mean progress in this respect. And the journey times are growing on more and more lines in East Hungary. It's not competitive, just like the high-speed Internet connections you promised in the countryside that people in smaller settlements don't really feel. There's something we should do about that. I have been told of countless settlements that there are very serious problems, and I also experience this wherever I go in Hungary. In conclusion, we will therefore support the proposal. We see this proposal as symbolic and, moreover, it can indeed be a small rural settlement, but it can also strengthen rural metropolitan identity in cases where a child, let's say, is born in the capital, because the conditions of health care in Hungary are such that it is shaped this way. So we'll support it. However, I think that the House may need a debate day on the general situation in the Hungarian countryside in order to reconcile positions, because I see that we have a very different view of the situation in Hungary. I think it can also be proven professionally that the situation of four Hungarian regions is going in a very, very wrong direction, and that it cannot stay that way. There should be a consensus development policy in this regard, which has not been in place in the last ten years. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-03-10-62	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató is the lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am finally in full agreement with Congressman Nacsa, because I was also expecting to have a calm professional debate here this morning, but here comes Mr Tasó, who has put this issue in a historical and internal political context, and he has also found an opportunity in this matter to learn how to do it, how to lie about the current opposition, how to do it ten years. Congressman, I do not know how this brings us closer to having the necessary consensus and joint work here for the Hungarian countryside, but I am glad, of course, that you are taking part in this debate, because until then, you are not taking out public money for your friends, relatives and business partners as usual. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This cannot be discussed in Parliament!]] Now, as far as the bill is concerned, I would like to tell you that I would just like to add a few comments to the specific bill. Perhaps the most important of these is that it is not very understandable that if this is a government programme that has the full support of the government, then why it does not come here as a government proposal to Parliament. I understand, of course, that the names of the Members will be recorded in posterity, and this is an important goal, but let's face it, if the government had submitted it, then there would have been some discussion about it, and, for example, we could have had answers from a government referral to a ground-bound, simple question about what additional burden this additional task would have been for the otherwise overloaded document offices. I do not think that much, by the way, and frankly, I share the view of my fellow Members that this may be an important issue for some of our fellow citizens, a matter that is relevant to their own identity. Of course, it doesn't make a person's connection to a settlement, or it doesn't have an identity as a result of what's in his ID, but I believe I've come across this type of suggestion myself, that some people have an important question for them. If, with a relatively simple legislative change, we can make life better, easier for our fellow Hungarian citizens, then why not do it? So we can support this bill. I would like to add just for the sake of my fellow Members who remember that in 2010 life began in Hungary, that the previous laws, including the birth-book law adopted by the Gyurcsány government in 2010, included the possibility of fixing the place of origin, but now that it can also be included in the ID card, I say once again that we also feel that this does not constitute a particularly heavy burden, and otherwise we have compatriots for whom this is important to be recorded in this way, why it should not be included in the law. We will support this. As far as the "Hungarian Village" programme is concerned, because there has been a debate about it after all, let me note very quietly and very quietly that I do not say it, and I am more moderate in that, than Congressman Varga, that the Hungarian countryside is only due to this government, and there are long, often centuries of debts here. I think that our common, important task is to find tools to help the Hungarian countryside... and we are always talking about the Hungarian countryside, so let's be honest, there are very big differences here, too, between landscapes and regions, and also between settlements and settlements. But there are many parts of the country where there is a real need for state intervention. If the state has something to do somewhere, the task of development is precisely to help these settlements, regions, by the way. There's no debate between us, and I think that's important. I must also say, because I know and I do not want to offend my fellow Members, because they are obviously proud of what they are doing and bring to Parliament what they can be proud of, and, by the way, there are elements in the Hungarian village programme that are undoubtedly positive, but don't pretend that history started in 2010. The new Hungarian village programme was part of the programme of the new Hungary, the existing EU development programme 2007-2013. In this context, it spent HUF 4000-5000 billion of EU funds [[Intruder from Fidesz: Come on!]] By the way, the two governments or three governments, the Gyurcsány, Bajnai and Orbán governments, from EU funds, the pfuj-pfuj, the European Union, as you say, are burdened with the support of pfuj-pfuj, the European Union, for things such as support for agriculture, integrated community service spaces, kindergarten education, outpatient care, road renovation and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that if you continue to do this, I am glad that if you have new ideas in this, I ask that, while you are fainted from your own greatness and while you are taking such small, important, symbolic steps, you should also address the real problems of the Hungarian countryside. I want you to focus on the fact that there's no district doctor in a series of places. I want you to focus on the fact that most of the schools don't have a teacher. Take care that the most Hungarian settlements can be approached by poor quality roads! Focus on the fact that the digital infrastructure, which is now a fundamental condition for successful business and economic development, is not available in many of the Hungarian villages today. I ask you to deal with this with the same enthusiasm, leave these unnecessary political overtones in grief, not here, and not in this case. Let's deal with the professional stuff. I very much support Mr László Varga's proposal to continue this debate here in Parliament, because perhaps we will find the things that connect us and not just those that separate us. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-03-10-64	Thank you very much. Now, the lead speaker of the LMP, Congressman László Keresztes, will be the group leader. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, I think that an extremely important, to say, lack-stress debate has started in the Parliament on the situation in the Hungarian countryside, and I would like to contribute in this way to this debate. I take the speakers before me seriously, I try to respond to them and take advantage of the historical situation of the presence of extremely important actors, which are extremely important for Hungarian rural policy. On behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr Balázs Orbán Secretary of State, here is Alpár Gyopáros, who we know is Minister of State within the framework of the Hungarian village, the programme "Modern villages" we can rarely speak personally about these issues, although my heart is very close to rural policy, and there is also Mr.László Tasó, former Secretary of State, who made a very interesting, tasty statement that he called Mr. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Why, isn't it?]] and strongly criticized the former Balliberal governments. I think that I very much agree with the latter. So in particular, all criticisms about the situation in the countryside are justified, which can be applied to Balliberal governments before 2010, only, Mr State Secretary, former Secretary of State, let us look at the period since 2010. As Minister of Transport, you have as much responsibility for the destruction of the Hungarian countryside, the destruction of the Hungarian countryside as János Kóka. I think this responsibility is comparable. [[11.40]] Well, I would like to say so myself, and as a technical announcement, I would like to say that the LMP faction considers this a positive proposal and, of course, it will support it. I'm looking at Congressman Nacha here. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm replied in an interesting way, Mr Nacsa. I would like to point out to you that the LMP faction supports this proposal. Thank you very much for your feedback. That's what I wanted to ask you, when you understand the information, you should indicate, and thank you very much, the signal has been made. So you don't have to waste Parliament's time in this way. Well, my own commitment to rural areas is very personal and, by the way, I find it positive that Mr Tasó is not sentimental in this regard, but rather a little symbolic, as he said about his own attachment. I'm referring to it, too. I'm a third-generation Pécsi myself, but I was born in Kaposvár, because of a similar situation. I'll be very happy to be able to say in my papers that I'm a peacock of origin. By the way, it is a very, very old family of Pécs, but I would add that my family was a three-generation family of Pécs, and before that my family came from a settlement in Pécs, called Bécsárd, about ten or a few kilometers from Pécs. Thanks to various historical documents, I can run the family tree until the 1500s, and it is very important for me to see the church tower of this small settlement from the terrace of our house in Pécs today. So it is extremely important, and I understand what you said by the way, Congressman Tasó. But as a Member of Baranya, Pécs, I came from a region, as Mr Varga referred to it, which is one of the 20 poorest regions in the Union, and this has been the case since Hungary's accession to the European Union. I represent a county, Baranya County, which has become the last nationwide in terms of per capita industrial performance, so we can say that we are talking about a crisis region. Even if this is a small county, relatively small county, the capital of this county, its county seat, Pécs is the largest city in Transdanubia, but there are already crisis phenomena. Even though here is the largest city in Transdanubia, Baranya County is our most fragmented county. The smallest number of settlements is the average soul. Baranya county is a small county, but it consists of 301 settlements. I also think it is very, very important to think about what Secretary Tasó has said in terms of balanced territorial development. I myself, as a researcher and not only as a responsible representative in the countryside, have also dealt with this issue as a researcher, and I very much agree that the settlement system can only be interpreted as a system. Historical, natural conditions and the rest, a certain settlement system has been established in Hungary, and this is not a coincidence. This was the way settlements could otherwise come into contact with nature and the environment. And it is no coincidence that with the right talents, let's say, a small village or a large village or farmland settlement system was formed. Obviously, this also had historical implications. But it is extremely important that if we look responsibly ahead of the Hungarian future and want to ensure a sustainable future, then we cannot settle for anything less than that so that the entire settlement system can function as a system again, because unfortunately, this does not exist today. So small settlements have lost their future in many areas, especially peripheral areas, in many respects and in the political responsibilities of recent decades. They've lost the role of being a unit of the living and working there, and that's what we need to be able to create. You have not been able to create this either in the first five years or in the last ten years, nor have you pursued such a policy. It was absolutely clear and has a role to play in the middle cities, in the big cities, in the capital. Clearly, a tragic stain is the Trianon decision of 100 years ago. These basic natural attraction areas, borders and systems have been dismantled and most of our very important regional centres have been lost. This was also a major blow to Hungarian territorial development. But I promised to take a constructive approach to this debate when we talk about the situation in the Hungarian countryside. If we look at 2010 and I look at Mr Alpár Gyopáros, Minister of State, and on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, I think you are well aware that since 2010, not since the cursed Balliberal time, but since 2010, we have seen terrible demographic data about the situation in the Hungarian countryside, about the migration, about the tragic migration that has occurred mainly in peripheral areas and especially in small settlements under 500 people. I think talking about results is a very shameful slide for you. I find that you have at least set your flag to maintain the population reserve in the countryside, to develop the countryside, but in no way can your political action be considered more positive than that of the Balliberal Governments of the previous period. Let us look specifically at what has happened with regard to infrastructure, and here again I can look at Secretary of State Tasó, the situation in which the rural operation, the transport infrastructure that is essential for the future of the countryside, is in place. So the criticisms concerning the Gyurcsány period are indeed absolutely true, but the situation has been deteriorating since 2010. There are currently 17,000 kilometers of lower roads in the wrong and wrong categories. So 17,000 kilometers of national reserved, inferior roads await immediate renovation. About 50 percent of these are in such bad condition that they cannot be renovated, but they need to be rebuilt. And I would very much like to underline, fellow Members, that you do not go back to the period before you, because it is not that you could not, that you cannot work off a socialist heritage or a Balliberal heritage in 10 years, because the situation has become worse in your time. Only between 2013-18, the rate of the worst-ranking roads increased by 1,200 kilometers, and today this rate is 68 percent. So 68 percent of the sub-standard roads with national reservation are wrong and are classified in the wrong category. Compared to this, this year's program of modern villages has the resources to renovate 450 kilometers of lower roads. So let's compare this year's 450 kilometers of renovation with the 17,000 kilometers of immediate renovation demand. Let's keep moving. If we want a constructive debate, I will not fit into the time frame. Let's look at what happened in the field of public transport, former Secretary of State. Where is the very many-promised transport reform that is essential for maintaining the Community transport system, which is also extremely important for the future of the countryside? You've been talking about national bus manufacturing. Where's the national bus industry? What I see is that in a rural town, a Chinese bus assembly plant was given a billion forints. This was the national bus industry for you, and you haven't taken any meaningful steps since. We are now at a point where bus transport services, which are very important for the countryside, are being reorganized and organised in such a way. Right now, it's being maintained by the Volanbus with a 14-15-year-old average age bus. We know that, unfortunately, it is an EU obligation to open the market in this area and that Volánbus is now faced with conditions that companies with machinery parks over 10 years of age will not be able to enter European tenders. What have you done in 10 years? And I'm telling you, it can be very hard and legitimate to criticize the balliberal period, but you've wasted 10 very important years in the countryside. And we can now see new promises, but not progress in this regard. I was just telling you about the nationalized inferior roads, how scandalous and tragic they are. Unfortunately, we do not have such statistics on municipal roads, but we know precisely that they are in worse condition, and we also know that in particular small settlements have no chance of making these extremely important infrastructure investments on their own. Not long ago, in February this year, there was a tragedy in Toszzeg. We know that there's been a lot of publicity about the fact that because of the extremely poor quality, specifically muddy, soaked road, the ambulances couldn't get to a serious patient, and the patient died because in 15 minutes the paramedics could get there in an SUV. And here we are talking about a road to a part of the settlement where 60 people live. The mayor of the settlement made a statement that there was no chance, in such a small settlement there is no chance that tens of millions of forints of road development would be carried out. Where is the responsible policy that would have sought answers from Fidesz-KDNP to these extremely serious, meaty questions in the last 10 years? ! You did not try to remedy these problems and try to give the municipalities the additional resources they need to carry out these works, but you have been constantly moaning local government rights, and we have come to the point where, in the case of a small settlement, the operation of a local government can be regarded as symbolic, because they have little, let's say, room for manoeuvre in terms of public works and such grassing, but the fact that they can achieve a development that is extremely important and fundamentally defining the future of the people living there is completely inopportune. But likewise, we can talk about the issue of drinking water. After all, we know that you have implemented a very serious centralization of the water system, and instead of the former 300-400, there are only 44 large water companies now, and small settlements and municipal water companies are also concentrated. These small settlements are now in a position to pay again for the contribution of the water service companies which you have brought to the brink of bankruptcy, to the brink of bankruptcy. In the case of a small settlement of a few hundred people, it is impossible to make a contribution of several million forints. They put small settlements in this position, and I repeat, this is about the most important public service, the supply of drinking water. There is also no way to close the utility shop a little further, so that substantial solutions can be found in the many small settlements where sewage discharge is not solved. It is also an increasingly serious problem due to climate change that so-called lightning floods, weather events that have occurred once, say, once every 100 years, are becoming increasingly common. [[11.50]] This requires, for example, the maintenance, renovation, and construction of the water network, the drainage ditches. It can cause quite tragic situations, and no one should have the illusion that these problems will be reduced in the next period, because they will not. So small settlements are simply not prepared to face the increasingly serious challenges in this regard. The Trianon decision has already been discussed, and we have already discussed how these small settlements can survive and what you have done to eliminate the double peripherals. In the border and inaccessible border areas, we can say that small settlements are in a dual periphery. Let me give you a concrete example from my county, let me ask you a question, perhaps to Minister of State Balázs Orbán: years ago, at a government meeting in Baranya, a concrete promise was made that between Barcs and Drávaszabolcs, this is the largest inaccessible section of the border, creating a new gateway or a border crossing. None of this ever happened. In addition to symbolic steps, this can obviously be an extremely important step if we are talking about Trianon, a national identity, to give us the opportunity to cross the borders of Trianon; let us give the two peripheral regions, typically separated by borders, the opportunity to re-establish economic relations that must once again have a meaningful future for these rural areas. And I have one more question about public safety. What have you done to address one of the most serious problems in small towns and rural areas, the issue of public security? I very much hope that I have restrained myself on some of the issues listed here suddenly, so I have asked some questions from Minister Alpár Gyopáros, Secretary of State Tasó and Minister of State Balázs Orbán, who are actually concerned with the fate of the countryside. Don't answer me, I just asked you a question. You could say I'm just a mouthpiece. Answer the Hungarian people who really live in the countryside, they really care about the future of the countryside, and they expect that a government that has put the development of rural areas on its flag to take action. And I repeat that we consider this amendment to be positive and that the LMP faction will vote for it. Thank you very much in advance if we can continue this gaping debate in a direction where we can finally get answers to these questions from the relevant decision-makers. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-66	Thank you very much. Dear House, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. Congressman János Bencsik, please.
u2020-03-10-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think we can agree in this debate that the survival of the countryside is in the common interest of all of us, and that the bill before us will, by the way, strengthen local patriotism, the experience of belonging to the community. So for my part, I am sure that I will support this bill. This is a nice symbolic gesture, but I also think, like my fellow opposition Members, that if we have this bill before us, then let's really talk about the real problems of the countryside, let's talk about the lack of prospects of the carried-over Hungarian villages, because unfortunately there are plenty of them. Several people mentioned closed railway lines. In 2007, the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány closed 478 kilometres of railway. I am sure that my fellow Members will remember this, because at that time there was a loud protest against this from the opposition. State Secretary János Fónagy is not in the room right now, but he has personally organised demonstrations. The Fidesz-KDNP government won the election in 2010 by making this issue a campaign topic, among other things in the countryside, so people were right to expect a radical change here. Compared to this, we had to see that most of these closed lines were not opened after 2010 or opened only with alibi timetables; which work and we see the situation of suburban, metropolitan train transport. There's hours of delays, flight delays. And then the black soup came in 2012, when the Orbán government even embarrassed the Gyurcsány and the Bajnai governments. About 410 passenger trains stopped at that time compared to the previous ones, and although no wing lines were otherwise closed on paper, 54 railway stations were in place and 15 sidelines were only formally maintained. So much for the traffic situation in the countryside. But we also talked about the health situation. Currently, based on data from the beginning of 2020, 1400 GP practices are not filled in Hungary. And if we add to the state of health care and social care in the country, then we see that nearly 10,000 places are not filled, 10,000 jobs are unfilled, and most of them are suffering from villages and villages under 5,000 people. But that's not the main cause of misery, that's just the consequence. The main reason for the misery is that in the last decade and a half, thousands of billions of forints have arrived in this country, which should have been used to catch up with these villages, without seeing any impact. And we're not thinking of Slippery, because unfortunately, the whole country can't be a Slipper, and the developments in Felcsút, unfortunately, didn't have any effect on the country. We see that the main squares have been built in many places, but there is still no quality job, and young people continue to migrate with mass, first to large cities and later to Western Europe. And what we see is that my fellow Christian Member has referred to these statistics, that they are being depopulated, that these Hungarian villages are simply being emptied. And if there is no job and there is no view in the villages, this will give us a direct path to creating so-called no-go zones in Hungary as well. Here before the agenda Minister Szijjártó mentioned parallel societies and no-go zones in Western Europe. Unfortunately, we do not have to go to Western Europe to meet no-go zones. The case, the very sad case that happened in Chenya, when the ambulances arriving could not arrive because they feared for their lives, and unfortunately it also led to human life loss, unfortunately it shows that there are conditions in Hungary today in the field of public safety that this is quite simply unacceptable. You have promised order in two weeks, it has been a decade, and the sad reality of the Hungarian villages in many places in the country is that people are still not safe and the minimum security of their material assets is not guaranteed. But if there's a job nearby, it's hard to get to. In many villages, the bus service is only for show. Public transport is pretty much exhausted at the start of one or two bus services a day. Indeed, the question must be asked how this will help to preserve the Hungarian villages that have been swept away. But suppose there's a job, suppose there's a bus, or there's a train ride to get to the nearest city. The price is to join NER's country mister's system. We have heard a lot of stories from rural mayors who say that if they do not belong, then the local powers of Fidesz will make it clear that if they do not have good relations with these Fidesz small kings, they should not count on much state and EU support. We have also seen and seen that there are attempts by the government to improve the situation of Hungarian villages. Here, the Hungarian village program was mentioned by several people, as well as the village CSOK. The fact is that despite this, there is still a huge gap, which separates not only large cities and not only Budapest, as there is no way to parallel a city with the situation of Hungarian villages, but let us say that if we buy a small town of 20-30 thousand people and look at the huge gap between wages in the village of a few thousand people, what a huge gap there is in living standards, services, access to culture, infrastructure, we can see that these are simply infinitely infinite, and this also contributes to the fact that, unfortunately, in recent years, migration, the elimination of villages has not decreased, but unfortunately has increased. Staying at the village CSOK, I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, the majority of people cannot do that, especially people living in the village cannot build a new house or build a new apartment, so since they do not want to spend the rest of their lives in debt, the real help to them would be to renovate their existing house. There is also a national energy strategy programme. Unfortunately, I have recently learned from the written question of my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth, to which Secretary of State András Aradszki replied that about 1.5 million houses in rural areas, mostly in villages, will be left out. You know, these so-called Kádár cubes, i.e. houses built in the Kádár era, which now have outdated energy structures, on which the government's intention made it clear that these houses will not be renovated, will not fit into this program, as it would cost more to renovate or increase their energy efficiency if necessary than the value of these houses. [[12.00]] But the question is, if someone cannot, would not want or unable to borrow money to move into a new apartment, and would not receive money from the state to upgrade their existing apartment and house, then what would they do? The question is poetic. While there has been unprecedented EU support in the country, the sad reality is what many of my opposition colleagues have referred to here, that at present the sad Hungarian reality is indeed the rule of small kings like Mayor József József, and the restoration of a castle with EU money; he was the representative who renovated a castle with EU funding of HUF 35 million, and it turned out that he had moved into the castle himself, so this is the very sad reality. And what would be the solution? I think it's the 21st. In addition to the necessary infrastructural developments, the focus on rural development in the first century would indeed be needed to improve the living conditions and quality of life of the people living here, and it is of particular importance that the support provided to these rural settlements really serves the needs of those living there, in fact it is in the interest of local residents, rather than the representatives of the local Döbödik and the Mysathi mister's world. I would like to ask you to do this, and I would ask you to accept this approach in order to carry out this work. On this opposition's part, as we have always given support for positive, forward-looking proposals and programmes, we will continue to give it in the future. Everything else that works against this will be subject to criticism, and we will speak out against it in the future. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-10-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we have two-minute speeches, all in a row, there are plenty of candidates. Congressman László Tasó, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2020-03-10-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the generous Harvester will have the courage to stand in court, convince the fellow Members to issue his immunity. [[Gergely Harvesto: Feel free to report it.]] So now that's gonna happen. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] By the way, it was really awful to listen to them talk about the countryside. I really didn't think that Varga-Damm Andrea was, too. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'm from the country?]] He calls rurals pub walkers and talks about how they're wondering when the second pub closes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not what I'm talking about! I'll tell you again what I was talking about.]] It was shocking, by the way. Nevertheless, of course, I am pleased to see them manifest themselves. We also know the sentence of the former head of the MSZP, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and I do not want to subpoena Hungary to what country he called Hungary anyway, and remember his sentence that it is possible to leave here, which is also from Ferenc Gyurcsány. It's all over this block. You don't have to talk about it much. Thank you very much, I am very honoured that you consider me to be such a serious man, Mr László Keresztes, but I have not been a State Secretary for three years, regardless of when I was able to be, an investment package worth HUF 2400 billion has now been implemented in a large percentage of the time, and the development programmes for the lower roads have also started one after another. Then we were able to renew the five-six-digit trips in a hundred billion-dollar year. So there's something to be proud of. Naturally, it takes a lot more money to catch up with the Hungarian countryside. What I did, however, exclude from the comments, is that although they are naturally shaping this comment for debate day, as I have tried to give a bit of an opening to this, nevertheless we really disagree in rural development policy; it is not a problem, but to offend those who love their homeland, it was not elegant. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We didn't hurt anyone! You're talking lies!]] I hope the people of the country will be rewarded by their vote. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-70	Representative of Jobbik, Congressman Zoltán Balczó, in two minutes!
u2020-03-10-71	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Once again, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa has demonstrated that if he responds to Jobbik's speech, he can only play DK, he can only spin. There's nothing in my speech but sadness. You heard Dániel Z. Carpát's speech on 2 March at the hour of immediate questioning. He was talking about suggesting that Jobbik set up a border guard for greater border protection. Congressman said that Jobbik was the one who gave the two-thirds majority to use the defence for border protection. He said that we gave the two-thirds majority to the legal lockdown. Well, after all of this, I suppose in your reply to your immediate question, Mr.Orbán said, because of his inspiring presence, that it is clear that if Ferencen Gyurcsány and his deputy Péter Jakab depended on the security of the country, then people would not meet safely, there would be no border fence, no border protection, no legal barrier to which we also added two thirds - then we would see that hundreds of thousands of immigrants would reach the Hungarian border, and so on. I say only in parentheses, you don't need to know this, look at this: on 2 December 2015 in the European Parliament at the trial of the situation in Hungary, there was only one Hungarian representative standing by the border: myself. Why am I sad? I am sad because I have been a Member for nine years, and I have to see that in nine years I have had to hear the worst lie from a Christian Democratic congressman in this room. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-72	Congressman Zoltán Varga, Democratic Coalition!
u2020-03-10-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The fact is, when I listened to Mr Tasó and read the presentation itself, I thought for the first time that this would indeed be a gesture proposal, which everyone will vote on, and we will soon get over this issue, because it is something that is written there that needs to be supported. Then I was amazed to hear that a simple, benign bill could generate a kind of hate policy that would make a man fall back on these benches. In fact, what we have heard is not on a thank-you basis with reality, because we know very well that the countryside, despite the fact that former Mayor Tasó is becoming king, knows very well what I mean in his own Patriot, we also know that it will be depopulated. I would carefully draw everyone's attention and once again I would like to say that we will support this proposal, and I would like to say in parentheses that this will strengthen the national identity rather than local patriotism, but I would nevertheless like to draw the attention of the proposers to the fact that they should be careful to go down to the countryside and tell those people that they can now enter into their personal identity card that they were born in Hencida and Bagamér, while there is no home doctor, no post office, no simple ATM, no public transport, slowly the shops and the markets are becoming completely insane, and there are no jobs. They'll tell Uncle Pista carefully down in Bagamér, because there's a hoop, a scythe, and they'll be chased down the highway. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Don't look down on the countrymen!]] Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-74	Congressman László László Keresztes, LMP!
u2020-03-10-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Mr Tasó was the State Secretary responsible for transport policy between 2014 and 2017, and I believe that he played an important role, since he was no longer Minister of Transport at this time; I recall that János Fónagy was the last Minister of Transport at the time of the first Orbán government. Well, there's something to be proud of, there's a reason I said I took the debate seriously, and I believe in statistics: In 2018, 68 percent of the national lower road network was the worst in two categories, only 63 percent in 2013. So it can be said that the situation under your secretary of state has deteriorated a lot, that the proportion of roads in extremely poor condition has increased by over a thousand kilometers. But actually, it's not gonna get us anywhere today if we're looking backwards for even a few years. I am hoping that, say, the regent Secretary of State, Balázs Orbán, may be able to answer what the prospects are, so where will they be available from, where will the government be able to provide the resources to improve this 17 thousand kilometers of road which is extremely important for the future of the countryside in a capacity to make the most important public services available to people living in rural areas, people living in villages. Because this action proposal is really very important, and we will support it, but if the ambulance can't make it, if disaster control can't reach it, if the police can't get to these small settlements, if the people who live there can't go to work, because the bus doesn't go to the locality, or if the transport service is so poor that it's not suitable for this, then there will be no future for small settlements. I would very much like us to be able to debate these issues, and if we were to have any answer to the huge amount of money, estimated between 1500 billion and 3000 billion, which is missing in the next 15 years' perspective to maintain the supply of drinking water, in what way will the government produce it. [[12.10]] In this way, I think it is appropriate to turn this debate into a day of debate. I am very pleased that the justification also included the programme "Modern villages" and I am very pleased that my fellow Members brought it up, because they gave me the opportunity to finally launch a debate in Parliament on one of the most important issues of fate. Thank you.
u2020-03-10-76	I would be happy to inform Mr László Vigh that he will not be given the floor because a faction can speak only once in a circle and then be welcome in the next round. So now Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc in two minutes, KDNP.
u2020-03-10-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much, Mr Balczó, for quoting me here in Parliament, from such an illustrious Member, I am honoured. But, Congressman, my sadness comes from the fact that I don't think the Hungarian political history has seen such a turnaround that your party is doing, and you've been watching it. [[Uproar and cry out of Jobbik's ranks: How about you? Ask the Fides.]] He even assisted her. The fact that we speak of DK in your context is because of you. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] and to Peter James, who made a faithful oath on a staircase with Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: That's right!]] It's all thanks to you. I'll give you your quote when your former party president, Gábor Vona, said, "The fence, it's a huge failure, it's become apparent that it's not fit to defend Hungary. And the other quote is, "It came up on the basis of quotas to distribute immigrants while it's about, say, a few thousand people, I'm saying it's okay. It's the Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-78	We now return to the normal speakers, Mr László Hajdu, representative of DK. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-79	Mr. President. Dear House, I asked to speak on the basis of my experience as a mayor, and I do not want to mention my experience in the countryside, although I was born in the countryside. My fellow Member Tasó and I sat on a committee for many years and in one shoe, as we were mayors. I come from a farm school; otherwise, if I can make a comment about the countryside, I would like to know how in today's Farmhouse school, although there is no such kid who has graduated from high school, can get a degree in tech school and university in this village development program, for example. He couldn't, so we're saying he can't. The fact that I became mayor in Budapest would be difficult to imagine in this world today. Returning to the presentation, I think that, as an independent representative, something has come up here that raises a lot of practical questions, and I would like to mention this and raise it as a question to the authors. One is that there is obviously a cost to the introduction, and if there is no cost, then I will indicate where I see it, that there must be a cost. One is that we amend two laws, one law is the law on certain addresses and the other law on civil status. These can be consulted or worked on the basis of serious programmes based on national programmes. The reprogramming of this is required by the proposal that you have just tabled here. This proposal for a programme currently in place at government offices and municipalities, because one of them works in municipalities, how can the registry programme be adapted? I would like to discover that there is a programming company that needs to be given a job and that the program that is currently in operation must be reprogrammed throughout the country. I must add that the birth certificate is not that simple. If you're a practicing mayor, you know exactly what that means, what you're suggesting. Will the introduction of this be mandatory, spontaneous, or just a statement? The client comes in and says that I was born here, and the hospital says that I was born in Gyula, but I was born in another village, say, in Véztő, and please enter this? To verify that this is true, so he grew up there; or, for example, who is a dual citizen and who arrives from Transylvania, Romania, or from Vojvodina, Serbia, how will his data be checked here? This program is a little suspicious to me that it's functioning at all, what you're proposing in real life. Right now, the birth certificate is based on hospital records. Next year, I think it's January 1st, when the client no longer brings the certificate from the hospital to the register, but the hospitals automatically report it to the register. This was meant to be a simplification at the time. How will this work with regard to the future, when it is necessary to mark the hospital place, obviously, and also that which means identity, the settlement where you lived your life, I do not know from what age to what age? Or if he lived in four or five settlements when he was a child of, say, a soldier or of parents in a constantly moving workplace, which settlement would he describe as an identificational settlement? So this raises practical problems that I cannot imagine working in practice. So the place of birth is indicated: I was born in a settlement, for example, with dirt roads in that settlement, and I had to go to the nearest settlement, where there was a stone road, so it was called, and I had to wait for it at the emergency councilhouse, because the stone road came so far that it could go to Gyula, as it was the county of Békés. And I was at City Hall, there was a place like this, and I was actually born at the council hall. I became mayor, but I was about to be born at the Council Hall. [[Delight and applause.]] It is written in my ID that he was born: Vésztő, but I graduated from my schools in a settlement called Okány, and from there I came to Budapest to study the profession, and I was also an industrial student. So now, if I like it, am I going to leave Clinic, or am I obliged to sign in that I grew up in Okány, and how do I certify that I grew up there? I don't know much about rural development or the strengthening of identity. Where I grew up, I am a citizen of this settlement called Okány. I don't think that's an identity problem. I've confirmed there, I'm a reformed, and I'm going back to the settlement to this day, but I don't know how my identity will be strengthened if you're going to introduce this proposal, and it's going to be written for me from now on that I grew up there. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Volunteer.]] But I think the confusion is what's causing what's going on if a double citizen wants the same thing, and we're starting to investigate whether he was born in Toplica, or not, in Harghita County, but he wants to enter that he was born there because it's a sporadic settlement. So I feel that we do not know the practical implementation of this, we are saying yes to something that will cause confusion both at the government offices and at the registry and at the municipalities. So I suggest that we consider, or at least be informed, because this is a regulation of implementation or something that is missing to make it clear that this can be implemented in practice at all. On the other hand, I think that there is nothing more than the opportunity for a program-making company to order a huge job. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-80	Thank you very much for Mr Hajdu's emotional contribution. At the same time, I must warn you that there is no obligation for everyone to have their own birth conditions. [[Defiance.]] or give an account of immediate preemptive events, because this, however I look at it, is the dispute of the named law. That doesn't stop us from listening to the details of Mr. Hajdu's birth. Now it's time for Congressman Csaba Nagy, Fidesz. Here you go. [[12.20]]
u2020-03-10-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I prepared a speech, but I put it aside after the first 25 minutes, because I think the debate went in a completely different direction. I have joined this bill-modifying motion, and when a Member joins a bill, he will think about it properly, and this may be beyond the fact that he is doing so figuratively. In the course of this debate, I would like to read from the general explanation, because I think it is very important that this should be said, because as I hear, see and perceive, several Members present have not read this. But it's really just a short quote. The Hungarian government is committed to the development of Hungarian settlements, especially the development of small settlements. This has led to the development and implementation of a number of support schemes. In order to develop small settlements, the government has announced the programme "Hungarian Village" which sets out, among other things, social policy, development policy, national policy and demographic objectives as one of the most important measures in Hungary. The primary aim of the. The primary aim of the Hungarian village is to strengthen the population conservation power of small settlements, to strengthen and emphasize the benefits of rural and rural life, while also helping to increase the willingness to have children. The Hungarian village programme makes efforts in many areas of life in order to ensure a proper standard of living for those who create homes in small settlements, and for those who want to live there, they can create their homes at their chosen small settlements without cancellations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would still like to say a few things about the bill, and I would like to share a few experiences about it, if possible. I obviously did not get to know the Hungarian village program or the idea of the development of our Hungarian villages in 2018, as I have been politicalising for quite some time, but in 2018, the country reached a social and economic situation for the first time since the change of regime, so that the reigning Prime Minister in Vajszló was able to say at a general meeting that the Hungarian government will launch the Hungarian village programme with its own resources created by the Hungarian people. Not from EU sources, not from loans, from sources created by ourselves. Perhaps this also means that when you talk about the shortcomings in the development of Hungarian villages and the countryside, you are not talking about the shortcomings of a year, not five years, not ten years and not twenty years. In my constituency, there is a mayor who I think will be pleased with this bill, and I would not think that they will drive us away, but they will most likely thank me for the fact that there are people who also care about the countryside and think about it, who said that they have occasionally left the Baranya County Council since the council system, and they have said there, in the Ormany area, that there are no children, no money for development, so you stay. He's heard that for years. Then, after the change of regime, EU funds appeared, a few things here and there, but I must say that these funds were also distributed and invented by people who did not live in the countryside. These resources could be used for all sorts of things, but the daily lives of rural people were virtually not influenced by them. The Orbán government launched a rural development programme in the current cycle. In doing so, they were exemplary in watching how and how they could help rural Hungary, and in creating an operational programme for territorial and urban development, which the counties tried to coordinate. I think these two programmes worked very well. I used the word, excellently, once, that, looking at these programs almost compared to the changes in the system, the program was brilliantly captured by the Hungarian village, and the colleagues who worked here. To my well-known fellow Members who are trying to decipher rural life from Budapest, I would like to tell you what improvements have been made in which the Hungarian village programme is trying to reduce many decades of deficits. I will now start with this on purpose: the invitation to tender for the development of local ecclesiastical community spaces, the strengthening of national and local identity, the renovation and construction of medical offices, the development of medical devices, and the construction of medical services apartments. I would like to say here that in my constituency we are currently working on a proposal in Sellye to bring a doctor seduced from Pécs down to the real large Hungarian countryside. There was an invitation to tender for the development of ecclesiastical community-owned cemeteries, tool development, maintenance of interior public areas, kindergarten development, development of kindergarten yards, renovation of municipal roads, cemetery development, support for village and folklore services. Here new cars could be bought and services started, which has not been done in years. The village road development started, where rural settlements could be sourced on three, four and five-digit roads. Last year's data: last year's road renovations were carried out on 89 sections worth HUF 50 billion. I would like to say, as an engineer, there are many decades of shortages in these programs. After years of lack of funding for this country and now I am trying to put it in a political way in order to renew roads, this programme is very forward-looking. That's exactly 50 billion forints more than, say, ten or 20 years ago. Let's talk a little bit about the village CSOK, because that's what we need to talk about. I've got a piece of paper here, and I've found it, and I've got some data on it. According to the Government's decision, this will be available until 30 June 2022, involving 2486 municipalities. By the end of November last year, 5,000 families thought that they would continue their lives in the countryside, and from 1 January the VAT refund of HUF 5 million will complement this program. And let's talk a little bit about the specifics. Here, many of my fellow Members have said a lot of things. Andrea Varga-Damm said it was very important to be curious about each other's opinions; she's obviously not here. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But I'm here!]] There he is, very good. But with the style that you represent here in Parliament, it is very difficult to be curious about each other's opinions, because it is also part of the debate culture that I accept that at times one has a passion for speaking to another fellow Member, but it is essential to listen to the other one's point of view. You're saying sentences like, "The proposal of the century," and we didn't talk about it, "The holy matter," and we didn't talk about it. I think these are statements that are not suitable for the content of the debate and perhaps not for Parliament, but that is my opinion. And it is said that this is just the problem of the people, and we have not said such a thing; nor have we claimed that this is the only measure of welfare that has been missing from our governance. Several of my fellow Members have said that they would like a thoughtful development policy. If you read these development policy ideas and the structure of their government decisions, you would think that we have them, and we are constantly implementing them, and that these measures are visible. Let me give you one or two specific examples. My fellow Member, László Keresztes, who is also from Baranya and is living his life in Pécs, spoke of his ties to Bécsérd. I would like to tell him, to report that there will be a device development within the framework of the Hungarian village programme in relation to the Bicsérd office, the office will be renovated. The applications were well written in Bécsérben, because the kindergarten will be restored. I've been fighting for years as President of Baranya County with Mayor to get a small source on the access road so that we can renovate at least a part of it. If I may, I would like to go back to the presentation and talk about why this proposal is important in terms of identity. The constituency where I was elected congressman is part of Baranya County. In the 1950s, with the exception of three settlements, Baranya County was accompanied by the district of Szigetvár, plus another settlement from Somogy County. I'll tell you honestly, we've seen, felt, and now we're talking about the identity problem in this part of the constituency. [[12.30]] Because they're still a little part of Somogy County, they belong a little bit to Pécs; somehow, in the administration, the people who live here, their lives here cannot be integrated, and this seems to be in the entire position of this area. If I look at the fact that in my constituency, where there are 174 municipalities, it is the Szigetvár Hospital, which provides more than 60 settlements, more than 77 thousand people, we have the only obstetrics. And then from this point on, I say that in my constituency, the Baranya County Constituencies 4 there are 173 settlements where this proposal, this bill, does have meaning. And I do not think that this has solved many problems in life, but for those who have an important sense of local identity, I think this proposal can be important. I also think it is very important, and I say to Mr László Hajdu that he should read the bill once again, because there are a lot of things that happen here on a voluntary basis: if someone does not think that he wants to read his place of origin among his data, he can do so if he wants to, and it is important to him, then there will be this data. What I would like to tell you is that from now on, we have a responsibility, as well as those who make the presentation and supporters, to draw the attention of the public bureaucracy, the actors of the fact that when mothers make a statement, they will have such an opportunity to include the place of origin on the birth certificate, because I consider this to be a very important thing. And to talk a little more about the development of rural settlements: Szigetvár Hospital recently received more than HUF 45 million for the renovation of obstetrics; between 2010 and 2019, the number of births increased by 71 percent. So I think this proposal is important, it is important for rural people and it is also important for the preservation of identity. I would ask my fellow Members to accept that this bill is for the people of rural areas, and that the three fellow Members who made a very important presentation with this bill have submitted it in their interest. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2020-03-10-82	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament once again that in a two-minute circle, one representative of each faction can take the floor. Congressman László Vigh, Fidesz!
u2020-03-10-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to tell Mr. Arato the truth... [[Gergely Harvesto: Are you gonna be okay with this? Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] No. The Member said that we see the situation in the countryside in a completely different way. Yes, you're watching from Budapest, and I'm watching from the countryside. The other congressman said we have to go down to the country. I don't want it because I've lived there for 58 years. I've spent half my life in socialism, the other half in this free system, and I can see that the villages have developed enormously. I'm talking more about Zala County, there are 248 villages out of 258 settlements, and they're very well, they're having a good time. Where the mayor is good, I can't believe they're developing the settlement. And what Congressman Gyopáros did as a government commissioner, was put on a program of Hungarian villages, and this is foam on the cake. So I think that what can be done in the village, in the country, is done by the mayors. When they say, "Loran the Crusade," and everyone says there's no doctor, there's no doctor, there's no such thing: what have we talked about 12 years ago? There's no job. What are we talking about? It'd be nice to have a job. And why is that? That's because the economy is booming. And today, if you're looking for a job in a village, you want to work, you can go to ten places at once. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Because the competition is gone!]] I'm saying it because I live there. You can go to ten places at once! [[Zoltán Balczó: You can't work in ten places at once!]] So today, the village and the countryside have changed so much, what you find very difficult to see from Budapest and through completely different glasses. I think that the Hungarian village program, the local government and small settlements are now a success sector. Don't hurt them, that's my request. Really, I'm telling the truth, we should go down there. [[Zoltán Balczó: Not down, up!]] And to be among them. The government commissioner can tell you how successful you are because you keep going around the constituency, and you keep meeting with the mayors. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not just the mayors...]] And he hears these ideas about what we can do to make us even more successful. So I think we're really good. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-84	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP, in two minutes!
u2020-03-10-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr László Vigh's question that there is a shortage of workers: yes, it is huge, because from 2010 emigration has accelerated because of low wages. [[László Vigh: That's not true! Gábor Bányai: Look at him!]] Hundreds of thousands of people left the country. I would like to say one thing: the population of Baranya County was 391 thousand in 2011 and 360,000 in 2019. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right!]] And by the way, as I walk the Baranya countryside, I don't have to go down to the countryside, I live there, in the countryside, I see the ads, just as they're posting that they're waiting for the Baranya County jobs to go over, move over, with all kinds of support. Unfortunately, there are such crisis regions, and we are basically talking about these areas. I am very pleased with Mr Csaba Nagy's speech, and we agree on a lot of things. It is certainly the role of an important Member, because, as far as I am aware, this is the national constituency, which consists of most settlements, so we can say that the most fragmented constituency, here is perhaps the best place to meet the problems of small settlements, and here is one of the poorest regions of the country, the Ormans. It's a huge challenge. But obviously, the congressman can also see these shocking demographic figures, the emigration data. I would like to suggest to the Member that you, too, demand the Government to do at least what it promises. He mentioned the government seat in Veszló. Orbán made promises in particular that a new border crossing between Barcs and Drávaszabolcs could not be completed. By 2018, they promised to extend the M6 motorway to the border, that it would be completed by 2018, and this did not happen either. Your constituency is affected by the fact that in 2018, the M60 motorway will begin to be rebuilt from two directions, from the direction of Barcs and Pécs. I will be a partner of Congressman in demanding together that the government at least fulfill these promises. And I also agree, yes, if you have 50 billion forints more available to develop the lower road network, it is more than nothing. But if we see that the government wants to spend a thousand billion forints, including interest, on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, on a development that can be assessed essentially only from the point of view of the Chinese interests, then I think there is a direction in which government policy will change. Thank you.
u2020-03-10-86	Dear Parliament, Not to interrupt the course of the debate, I must draw your attention to a specific use of the word, which is also used by opposition and pro-government, and I know that there is no offensive intention in it, but as we speak in public, I suggest that we leave this behind. Let's not say we go to the countryside and go to Budapest. This may be used only in the case of heights above sea level. In all other cases, the people of Budapest, as well as the rurals, can be hurtful, and we are members of the Hungarian Parliament, so let us use other terms! [[Zoltán Balczó: We're going up!]] Thus, as a result, Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, may follow.
u2020-03-10-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I will pay great attention to my words, although I must add, Debrecen is lower than Budapest. So in this regard, geographically, I should be able to say that I'm going to Debrecen. Just because I live there. In response to my fellow Member, Mr Vigh, I must say that I envy my fellow Member's problems in Zala County. I would suggest that we go together to Bagamér in Hajdú-Bihar, for example, where you will see what it's like to be an Eastern nugget otherwise, since everyone from Zala County goes to Austria and to work in the surrounding countries. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Everyone.]] I believe it's easier to live there, but I suggest you come with me and see what it's like for the local kings to share the work with the public workers, and they don't dare say a word. And there are no roads and no basic services. It's almost out of the market. What are we talking about, fellow Member? Not to mention, it's really good to be eight years old, and it's really nice to have a tiny fork, but to refer to the eight years before the last ten years, let's face it, it's nonsense in this world today. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] It wasn't you, but it's typical of this House. I understand and take note of everything, just understand that when we talk about the problems of the countryside, what we really need to do is go to the small settlements in the eastern part of the country and see how people live there. Like Bagamér. Come with me and see how they live. [[12.40]] Congressman Tasó speaks easily, because it was easy to control his life as mayor in Samson, but if he went beyond Samson, he would see what life is like there when we are no longer talking about your territory. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-03-10-88	We will now return to the speeches of the ordinary speakers. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, Jobbik! Here you go.
u2020-03-10-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wondered if a university student, for example, would write a class paper or a thesis from this proposal and read through the minutes, would be able to draw a conclusion: Fidesz, KDNP Members, had a text understanding problem, because I started my speech by naturally supporting the proposal, because otherwise, they have been a legitimate long, round 29 years in this society. I just asked why, after 29 years of Fidesz and KDNP were both parliamentary parties, we came to the point of doing so after 29 years. The other problem, which is a cause for debate, is the justification. If you had not included this hypocritical text in this explanatory statement, then there would have been no debate here on this parliamentary day. And to show the extent to which they share their mentality in society: to make such a suggestion, the Hungarian village will bring the program here, when people live in the city. Therefore, you do not prefer a child or an adult who does not have the place of origin in his ID card, for example. [[Gyopáros Alpár: Text understanding problem...]] For example, who was born with a visit from Budapest or a big city to a mother of birth and had an early birth, so she was born somewhere else. So you have your whole mindset in sharing society at such a level that even with such a proposal, you have not been able to think that there may be someone who will register Budapest's place of origin, even though you may have been born in Kiskőrös, because your mother was visiting there. So understand, in this House, questions have been raised in opposition representatives about this proposal because you do not work according to the spirit of the bill in your work. Let me just get you a few more questions. LXVI 1992 a law with which this proposal begins has been amended 25 times so that any amendment could have brought this into the House. Then, when Mr László Vigh says that there is no problem in these areas where he lives, I will say: there may be no problem, because on the one hand, the 600 thousand emigrants took their competitors to the labour market, and otherwise, we have 40,000 fewer people a year due to natural weight loss. This will not be debated by my fellow Member, László Vigh, because it is statistical data on birth and death! There are 40,000 fewer Hungarians a year in this country! When are you going to explain this after the ten-year government of the Fidesz-KDNP, why we're still here? We're here because you're neglecting the countryside. If you are talking about rural development, the programme of the Hungarian village and the flowering of the countryside, from which I also come, and there are no more representatives in rural villages than I do... [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks. The Gyopáros Alpár is applauding.]] Mr. Gyopáros Alpár, will you please stop with the sarcastic, dirty style you've been doing here? ! An uproar in the pro-government ranks. ) How dare you question...
u2020-03-10-90	Please.
u2020-03-10-91	...that I go to villages or not? ! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Where do you think you're going? ! Mr President, during a series of negotiations, he mocks his fellow Members.
u2020-03-10-92	Thank you very, very much, Congresswoman, from such a height, I can see exactly what is happening.
u2020-03-10-93	What you're doing is terrible. It's terrible.
u2020-03-10-94	So the point is, please return to the trial of the law.
u2020-03-10-95	It's terrible.
u2020-03-10-96	And by the way, everyone else listen, because the congresswoman says interesting things. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-97	One in four 15-year-old students in Hungary still cannot master the solution of reading and mathematical tasks. Let's deal with this, for example. Then I will tell you that according to the World Democratic Audit survey, Hungary is ranked 44th from 154 countries; this means that citizens are satisfied with the activities of their country, home and government. But in the satisfaction factor, from 154 countries, we are only 107. From the survey conducted in 38 countries between OECD countries, we are 32nd place according to the Better Life Index. It is the social value crisis, the image of society becoming incapacitated, that emerges from each such survey. Sixty-70 percent of Hungarian society has less salary than the gross HUF 350 thousand shown by you last year. In the poorest districts, the Statistical Office shows that unemployment is 10-15 percent. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not the law!]] But, I will tell you, the reason for the law is about the development of the Hungarian village, so let's just talk about the village, and otherwise I still have time. And now I'm going to read you the life of a small village in Borsodi, because even though you always say that you're in villages and small settlements, everything's fine, then I'll tell you why everything's not okay. Kiscsécs has earned the title of the fairest Roma settlement in Borsodi in recent years. Ninety percent of the population is gypsy-ethnic, which is roughly the same as the unemployment rate. The streets are all well-kept, the grass cut in the trenches, the houses are clean, the flowers around them, the carefully cultivated gardens, but most of the buildings are unblown, the last year of one or two rotting, the sometimes necessary stamina conservation work is more than late, and we can't afford it. Most of the houses have electricity, but water is barely enough, the street wells will be used by everyone. There's no gas, there's no sewer network, and the utility companies aren't worth the investment, because, as they claim, the locals couldn't afford to pay the rent. Phone's at a house or two and in a pay phone, no cell phones, two or three cars. There is no post office, tavern and shop in the village, for basic essentials, bread and milk, they go to the neighbouring Kesznéten or Girincs, mostly on foot. No kindergarten, no school, no doctor's office. The mayor says, "It's very difficult to live here, we've been vegetating since the change of regime. Earlier, people worked in Miskolc, Bőcs, Tiszaújváros, even many of the women, but when the changes took place, the rural low-skilled were sent away. Since then, many people have lost a steady job, making a living on subsidies and occasional jobs. There's a chicken entrepreneur not far from here, he used to hire the locals sometimes. Nothing but him, but nothing, and there are working, clean Roma living here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about the ID?]] So this is the Hungary where you govern, which you say is always, everything is fine everywhere, and in the way that this proposal has been put forward with their justification, that is the reason for the debate, but I am very calm because at least more Fidesz Members have said that there is a lot more to be done. So, if nothing else, this debate was good for the fact that it was in Parliament's minutes that the pro-government Members thought there was still much to do, and if there is not enough work to be done, then there will always be opposition representatives who will ask why their promises are not being fulfilled. Thank you.
u2020-03-10-98	I will immediately give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, who has asked to speak again. I would like to draw your attention to the order on the agenda. Of course, you have the right to negotiate this law as long as it pleases you, or at some point, as long as it pleases me according to the house rules. [[Defiance.]] But I do need to remind you that repeating your thoughts is important, because repetitio est mater studioum, but if you do consider that at two o'clock, if you like it, if you don't like it, we will vote, then it may limit your imagination somewhat. [[Zoltán Balczó: And there is another agenda!]] So, Congressman Csaba Nagy, Fidesz! Here you go.
u2020-03-10-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am trying to limit my imagination, but there have been some issues that need to be answered in a debate in Parliament, and I am trying to do this in a way that does not generate another debate. [[12.50]] I would like to say to Mr Keresztes that I hope that the next few years will not be so long as we do not experience the fact that at the Hungarian-Croatian border, when they still request the ID card, we can show where our place of origin is in Baranya. And I really hope we can do that on the M6. Mr President, you asked me about the development of road border crossing points, and really very briefly, because I do not want to waste time, did you not, in the case of M6, the delivery of public procurement has been published in the European Union notice. They are waiting for the offers on 20 March, and I hope that the construction will start soon and that Croatia will obviously also have to wait for improvements. For M60, export plans will be completed by the end of 2021. I would just like to say in brackets that the development of this highway has been stopped by the MSZP administration. Since then, the trail has been selected, there is an environmental permit, and now the export plans are being prepared. As far as Baranya is concerned, and other border counties are affected by the length of our borders on the Croatian side, there are three border crossing points. I must say that I have been in negotiations with the Croatian party on several occasions, at many levels. With County President, local government leaders and ambassadors, we also attended such a conference in Osijek, and the Croatian party is also required to open border crossing points at the Schengen border. If their intentions are not as strong as ours, it is very difficult to do so. I hope that this border of Trianon has descended on us for nearly a hundred years now, at some point within the framework of the European Union, and that we will not have to show the identity card where we will also be able to show our place of origin to the police guarding the border. And then I put it back on the bill, and thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-100	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2020-03-10-101	Mr President, Dear House, I did not intend to comment more deeply on this debate than my fellow Members, but I am quite amazed by the tone that has developed here in the last few minutes and hours. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I would like to draw our attention to the fact that when my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm is criticized, in my view, on the basis of an unfounded or at least incomplete language interpretation, if one can talk about it, a person who has saved a great deal of the inhabitants of the Hungarian villages concerned in the courtrooms from the foreign exchange-credit mafia that you liked to co-operate with the team. We were not the ones who contributed to the mass taking of Hungarian people's homes. Now, according to the news of the other day, I also say to my fellow Member, Nacsa, who often deviates from the subject of the general debate, but I will certainly not deviate from the situation of the Hungarian village, and I will also refer to the identity card, but there are also people living in these villages whose looting is supported by this mechanism. Explain, then, in this debate, yesterday's news that it was a law firm supposed to be close to you that took a hundred million-dollar profit simply from the fact that certain types of contracts could only be reached and concluded for people who have suffered foreign exchange damage. If you don't, disprove it. But these are legitimate debate funds that could be discussed. And I would also like to say that while four Hungarian regions are among the poorest regions in the EU, and on the other hand, you could not, or possibly did not want to, support them, the debate about asking for an ID at the border may seem infertile. I want them not to ask for it, too. We have absolutely in common the idea that the 100th anniversary of Trianon's disgrace should be accompanied by real results. In my view, it is a very thin achievement that if we didn't just ask for the ID at the border, it would be much closer to me if Viktor Orbán, let's say in Western forums, at least said the word autonomy on his lips. Where else are we going to achieve this later? But I would like to say that in the meantime the Hungarian village, the Hungarian countryside, is dying. Once again, you will also find it on portfolio.hu, which is not a portal close to me, or I cannot say anything about its editing, I wouldn't do that, but there are four Hungarian regions: in competition with Bulgarian, Romanian and one Polish region between the poorest areas where there are otherwise quite amazing phenomena. Part of my family, half of it came from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, a village near Kisvárda. I am fully aware of the conditions under which a young person should try to thrive there if he does not choose to leave his homeland, his homeland. I also see that despite all statistical flashes, unemployment in the affected county is above 8 percent. So I absolutely agree with the direction that many of you here have set out rhetorically, and I would only encourage you to be sufficiently restrained in terms of the fact that you are unable to show the merit marks in the certificate in a prominent way. At least for the past ten years, you have not been able to place an exemplary certificate on the table, either for the development of the Hungarian village or for the development of the Hungarian countryside. We have come to the conclusion that Hungarian GDP is dependent on the brochures of various multi-company companies, seasonal offers of car manufacturers, and very often also the fate of Hungarian rural regions and regions, as you will tell me in the corridor, if we are not on live television or in Parliament's debate, that if a multi-group picks up the production line, then a whole region can practically be destroyed, without a job. This is not a healthy condition, ladies and gentlemen. Dear fellow Members, if we really want to have an impact on such issues, we must make sure that the Hungarian countryside is able to live rather than empty. If it is empty, however, we should at least get to the point of not lying about the problem and finding common solutions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-102	Thank you very much. I thank you for your cooperation, and I hand over the chair to Vice President Latorcai. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-03-10-103	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-104	Mr President, Dear House, The strong pro-government interest is touching you, and I'm glad that I can get something like this out of you after all these years, and since 2010, we've had a lot of people working on these benches together. I must tell you, while I mentioned that there are four Hungarian regions among the poorest in the Union, and once again I would like to stress that, in competition with Bulgarian and Romanian regions, for these amazingly backward positions, if this can be called a competition, I really find the tone with which opposition representatives have been attacked in recent times, who have actively defended and defended the population of the affected Hungarian villages, whether in a courtroom or in the field, in several proven ways; that is to say, Members who have already put something on the table on this front. I am not saying that they should go after them, I am not saying that they should appear together at an illegal eviction, say Andrea Varga-Damm, although that would not be the devil's idea, but at least it would be good to return to the foundation of mutual respect where they are not covering this debate with lies, as my fellow Member Nacsa has done in relation to migration theory. Then the lie was exposed, didn't it, Zoltán Balczó adjusted it, since then it has not reheated this topic, so I hope that we can finally get to a discourse on the subject, according to which we can find common results. But once again, the lie of reality cannot lead to this, the elimination of the Hungarian countryside must be stopped by operators and incentives. By the way, in order to say positive, the village CSOK, if the government complements its conditionality and makes it available to a much wider circle, would be a good tool in this direction, and I very much hope that we will have the opportunity to talk about similar ideas during the debate. Thank you.
u2020-03-10-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker also spoke with a two-minute speech from the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-106	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Kárpát, that the word "migratory" was first spoken by Zoltán Balczó today, but he quoted me from a meeting on 2 March, so no one brought this up today, just him. Andrea Varga-Damm constantly wants to make a difference, and she claimed that we didn't think of those who, say, in a city, in another city, are forced to give birth away from their homeland. Well, of course that's not true, he's having trouble understanding texts, because these cases are included in the law. Of course, the greatest number here should not be considered in this case, but in the cases that my fellow Members have also spoken about. We are talking about women living in villages and, by the way, parents in urban hospitals, of course children, fathers. It is very important that the scope of the amendment of the law that he spoke about is also affected, but I think that in my opinion, who will make use of the legal possibilities, there is a 99.5 percent ratio for the benefit of the villages, so we are obviously talking about this issue in particular, and my fellow Members are talking about it. That's why it's important, because he's trying to make a difference here. [[13.00]] We never said, and they can't quote any of us that everything in the Hungarian villages is fine, and there would be no further work to be done, never said or even done. We have launched the program "Hungarian Village" and we have launched a number of measures to improve the quality of life and infrastructure of the people there; we have never said that everything is all right. There is work to be done, but thank the Congresswoman very much for offering us that she will always warn us about this as an opposition representative. We'll expect this job in 2022, then in 26. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to tell my colleague, Zoltán Varga, DK, that Bagamér has received ten times as many resources in the last ten years as during the previous Gyurcsány government period. The sewerage, the church renovation, the school, the municipal buildings and the renovation of the sidewalks all took place during the Orbán government, so my fellow Member also took off the aluminium helmet, but the reality did not get to it anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr László Keresztes, leader of the Group, also for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really have had my many speeches, and I do not want to make an unreasonable argument. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Good!]] But I think it is important to say, perhaps in summary, that it is felt that this is a substitute debate, it is felt that it is very, very important that this issue, whether the situation in the countryside, or only the modern villages, is on this issue. Let's have a debate day. I propose that my fellow Members take the initiative, and I think this is extremely important. But in the meantime, if we agree with each other on certain issues and you acknowledge that there is a lot to be done, then let us try to establish some kind of consensus on concrete matters. I have repeatedly mentioned, along with specific statistics, the poor condition of the infrastructure that is extremely important for the countryside, the lower road network, and I repeat, fellow Members, that you are not working off the Balliberal heritage, but increasing the problems. Every year, the road network is getting worse, so according to official statistics, rural lower road networks are getting more and more into the worst categories. At present, HUF 50 billion is available annually from the Hungarian villages program to solve this problem. Mr Vane, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has a precise figure on how much money we would need every year to ensure that statistics do not deteriorate overall, how much money should be available and when will the amount be available annually to start to improve overall nationally the inferior network? If there is such an amount, then, I think we can agree that the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, estimated at a thousand billion, should be withdrawn, and this thousand billion HUF should be transferred to the development of national lower roads within the framework of the Hungarian villages programme. Would you agree with me, Congressman, that at the moment this thousand billion HUF is much more needed in order to improve the fate of Hungarian villages? I would very much like to present a proposal once again, because there has already been such a proposal before the Parliament, and then my fellow Members can prove how committed they really are to the future and development of the Hungarian countryside. Thank you.
u2020-03-10-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Mihály Witzmann is next, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was not planning to comment on this item on the agenda, because I think that we can take a legislative decision which is symbolic but which enhances identity and enhances identity with the indication of the place of origin in the document, which, on the one hand, is a long-standing demand for Hungarian society, at least I think that this demand has been formulated many times, and obviously you have met with it, and many of my opposition colleagues have tried to take this debate in the direction that this is the most important thing that we have to do now. If we can, then why not do it? Indeed, it is not a decision of strategic importance for the national economy, but I think that it can be important for many; those who wish to make use of it will be able to take advantage of it from here on out. We have turned to view rural development on this subject, and, of course, the meeting point determines the position of my fellow Members in various political groups, and I can only share my own example with you from my own constituency. In the last cycle, a larger amount of resources arrived in Somogy's 4th constituency, with Siófok's headquarters, 71 settlements in this constituency, and more than 150 billion forints of resources were awarded to this 71 settlements only in the last cycle. And I'm glad of that because we have been able to implement or start infrastructure improvements such as roads, bicycle roads, sidewalks, sewage upgrades, health improvements. There was a lot of talk here about rural development about medical clinics in my district we were able to renovate more than two dozen medical clinics, we spent more than five billion on the hospital in Siófok, and I might add, we upgraded three rescue stations, and we built two new ones. So I think we have results. There was also a lot of talk about the program of the Hungarian village. I think that we have been waiting for this for a long time, in my district 1.1 billion HUF has arrived in the last year thanks to the program of the Hungarian village. We could also describe the village CSOK as a positive opportunity, and the two minutes do not give us enough opportunity to do so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In any case, I think that I agree with my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm, although she is not in the horseshoe: we still have plenty of work to do, of course, but the continued positive trends in recent years, I think we all need to see it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. That concludes the two-minute speeches. I am speaking to Mr István Happy of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-112	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, who said that he did not wish to speak in the debate; I was also prepared to hold this debate for about 20 minutes. But the thing is, I see from a simple bill, which basically means that anyone who wants it can put it in their I.D., where he was born, was born at his place of residence, where his parents lived. [[A statement from the opposition: That's not what it's about...]] , of which the Hungarian village programme and the development of the Hungarian villages were violated. I was listening from the box with my son, who studied at ELTE and comes from a village, what you said. I have to be honest with you, there are a lot of things we can't agree on. I would like to tell you that for 20 years I was the mayor of a small establishment, which, for example, was renovated last year or this year in the Hungarian village program. Do you know how big this is, how happy these people are? And it wasn't just renovated, it was remodeled, and a doctor's office turned into three clinics, because that was good. And the fact is that while you are talking about nothing happening in the villages, I can tell you that the 18 small settlements in my country were only developed in the Hungarian village programme last year by more than one billion forints, overall over the last few years there has been a development of several billion forints. More than HUF 50 million has been developed in the smallest settlement. For the 18 small settlements, there was some development from the Hungarian village programme. If nothing else, this village car is a very important tool, because it is also necessary in the villages. And, you know, I don't have to go down or go up, I live there, I know exactly what's going on in the countryside, what's going on in the villages, and I also know how much you need to redecorate, which, by the way, I'm sorry I'm past eight years, but the thing is, they forgot me before 2010. And, of course, since we cannot renovate all roads at the same time, it is that the roads are getting older and older, these roads have grown older in the last ten years. We were able to renovate some of them. In my district, I can tell you that the Orbán government started the road renovation program in 2013, and every year in my district several kilometres of roads have been renovated, and this year several kilometres have been renewed, and I am pleased about that. Of course, it is possible to say how much more is missing, of course, the villages have the idea, and all the ideas of who would like to apply for it, and will always have it. There won't be another wish. But the whole point of the program is to try to catch up with these villages, the villages that didn't have much of a source between 2002 and 2008, in the 18 villages of which I was the mayor of, there didn't have a renovation framework outside the local sources, because it didn't arrive. There was a school closure in the area, but there was no renovations. Medical offices have all been renovated under the Orbán government. So what I am asking you is that if you want to argue about the programme of the Hungarian village, you should argue that you are prepared to know what is in those villages, because once again, I live there, just as many of my fellow Members live in the villages and see it. And in my district there is also a village of only 200 people, and yet it has made 50 million HUF development in recent years, and there is a village that is rich because it has good tax revenues, like Cserkeszőlő, but nevertheless it has also developed and developed the poorest village, such as Tiszainoka, where hundreds of millions of HUF improvements have been made in the last five years, and there will be new developments in the current village programme. I think it is very important for the Hungarian village program that there are several development programs, for example, the kindergarten can finally be renewed in Szelevény. You know, they've been waiting for this for decades. [[13.10]] We have come to the conclusion that this program will result in a new kindergarten, which will result in parents not taking their children elsewhere, and even hope that more and more children will be born. And I would also like to say that within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, within the 18 settlements, the institution of the village CSOK can be used, and in all 17 settlements it has been used by young people, they have already moved there, and young people have remained in their place thanks to this programme. And I can only trust there will be more of them this year. So I would ask you to always look at where we started, where the Hungarian villages started, and, of course, to use this as a basis for criticism, and to take into account that everything cannot be accomplished in a few years, but we are on the road to achieving it. I would like to thank the Hungarian Government, Commissioner Alpár Gyopáros, for supporting the settlements with the programme of the Hungarian village, supporting the small settlements that have always been my heart, thus supporting the settlements of my region. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is next to speak again from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-114	Mr President, Dear House, With all due respect to the chairman, I would like to point out, in the interest of his nervous system, that I will far from complete the time frame at my disposal, since I do not wish to abuse all the opportunities provided by the general debate. I would like to express my sadness, especially after the speech by my fellow Member, István Happy. We have been sitting in front of each other since 2010, we have had ember debates on a number of issues, we have found a number of things in which we agreed, and I have noticed that when it was a fundamental issue of national strategy, and you, too, were able to rise above this ember, perhaps let's say distasteful, then indeed there were common foundations that served Hungary's interests at all times. That's why I'm asking you to try to stand out from this bubble of opinion you're sitting in, and I'm saying this without any anger. After all, everyone here tells me their feedback on their own constituency, which they have received regarding the various sources of tender, that they have renovated the kindergarten that I support for its renovation, but my fellow Member, there are fewer and fewer workers in it, and they expect more and more children to be born while... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] You can express your opinion on this, of course, press a button, but the thing is that Happy István expects more and more children to be born, and I also expect that, unfortunately, this is not the reality. The reality is that last year the Hungarian population lost record levels again, and the elimination of Hungarian villages and certain Hungarian areas could not be stopped. Our task in the Hungarian Parliament would be to face a catastrophic demographic situation, in which, if we all joined forces here and developed a national minimum and I was close to this idea, I would be able to capture you, and it would start well, and we could invest all the resources here, it would still be a 30-40-year-old program in itself to slow down weight loss, and at some level to prevent these processes. And unfortunately, we see that they do live in a bubble of opinions, because you may believe that this demographic disaster has caused a slow fall in the last year or two, while the fact is that there have been four years of living birth data under 90,000 in Hungary since memory and all four fall after 2010. I do not want to make you responsible for this, because it would not be fair professionally, because they start from a lower base, when the number of women of childbearing age is less, but we can also see that all demographic data, so all that the profession takes into account, has deteriorated in recent years and I wish it were not so! At the fertility rate, there was a temporary increase, which I very much welcomed, we were still far from 1.5, and at 1,49, the fertility index stopped, and after a little stagnation, it started to decline minimally. I would like this to rise again, but I see that if you say such things as that more children are born in Hungary, these processes are slowing down, the denial of reality will prevent us from finding common solutions. There was a year in the 2010s when less than 10,000 Hungarian children were born for the whole of Transylvania, fellow Members! At least for Trianon's 100th anniversary, let's all be sober about what's wrong. And we should find common solutions to these, and you see, my fellow Member, I say this without any emotion, because we would like to help you with your sincere intentions, but we can only see that you are really proud of the fact that on a umbilical cord pointing up towards tender sources, how much has the constituency been able to call down, and that you are changing the façades of the hospital concerned, where there are not enough professionals. They are looking at what has been renovated, what has been developed in a village, which is positive, and I am happy about it, only from that village Hungarian young people are migrating abroad. I mention Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bergeg again, where one of my family's branches came from, and we see that young people there who cannot make their month out of the net salary of 120-130 thousand HUF will migrate abroad. These are terrible processes, and I'm really just asking you to stop denying reality. We have deteriorated in terms of all fertility and population indicators, the number of marriages has increased alone and fortunately, which is not a demographic indicator, supposedly in order to make it easier for those affected to use the elements of the family support system that are otherwise good ideas, but unfortunately, many Hungarian children have not yet been born. I really hope this turns around, but I can't do it by denying reality. The only way to do this is to face the force of excavation with these catastrophic processes, and to find parliamentary solutions that any colorful government will be forced to adhere to, whether enshrined in the Fundamental Law, I could support it, just get to the diagnosis in order to talk about any therapy. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else could apply for a proper speech. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Then we have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-116	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member Z. Carpathian, I do not know where you heard me brag about demographic numbers or deny reality, I was talking about reality. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the steps we are talking about here, just like this bill, are precisely about trying to tie people up with something on the ground, and it means a lot to a lot of people if they get their identity card that he was born in Alsóőrs. That means a lot to a lot of people. It means a lot to me, too, if I can now sign in that I was born in Twopoos. However, I can tell you that we agree that we must stop the demographic disaster, but look, with all the laws we have brought, from the family support laws to the Hungarian village programme, they would all try to make sure that as many Hungarian children as possible, as many young as possible stay in their own village or even move to the village and stop this disaster. I'm confident about what you're saying, that marriages don't turn into more children. Well, it didn't happen right away, but let's hope that the young people who got married will have a baby because there's nothing more beautiful than giving birth. I think that what we do has a future, there is a basis for what we do, with any family support program, or with the Hungarian village programme, and, of course, if you have good suggestions for this, then it is always welcome. But to say from the outset that this is not going to work, and that will not make any more children, we will not stop the population disaster, and I do not think that is good, Mr President, we will never agree on this. I think that every step of the government is aimed at either the economic recovery programmes or all the others, so that as many Hungarian children as possible can be born. This is the future of the nation, this is the future of the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, in a thousand years we will still be the greatest nation [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the Carpathian Basin, if we fill this pool, it's obvious. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I ask who among the authors would like to take advantage of the answers to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Alpár Gyopáros. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. God forbid I should drag this debate further, on which many expressed their views. It could have been closed in about 30 minutes, and we've been arguing for three hours, and the debate didn't say the least about the proposal, it only contained traces of it. Nevertheless, I must respond to some opposition points, adding that it is obviously no surprise to me that my fellow left-wing liberal Members in their speeches sought to cover the sins of the two government cycles that we can safely call the period of village destruction, during which thousands of them ceased, thousands of nursery schools, and kindergartens have ceased in the villages. And although Mr Arató has spoken here about rural or rural railway lines, let us recall the figure that, after all, on 38 wing lines, passenger transport was stopped at 1,300 kilometres during socialist governments. What's this if it's not a country wreck? And he, Congressman Arató, recalled that the rural development programme of New Hungary, the ÚMVP, is in fact the predecessor of the Hungarian village programme. [[13.20]] So, if I understand correctly, the Democratic Coalition is taking over the launch of the program, in fact, the Hungarian village. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] That is what has been said by Mr Arato, my fellow Member, Mr Korózs. But let me just say that the process that led to the debt of small settlements played a flagship role in that. The aid which you may have laid down for rural settlements or villages has not been paid in advance or, in fact, may have been paid to these municipalities at the end of a long and long procedure. As a result, small municipalities, rural authorities, had to borrow from operational loans, these development loans had to be taken in, and at the end of this process, HUF 1200 billion of government debt, which we consolidated with HUF 1200 billion of debt. I would also like to thank Mr Varga, perhaps, for his only calm opposition. Nevertheless, the Member is calling us to account for the fact that we are not listening to the countryside, and we are not pursuing a thoughtful rural policy, and we should continue to do so. Congressman, when the UMP was launched, your government agreed with the Brussels bureaucrats on the UMP, with no one else with the rural man, certainly not; with the rural authorities, certainly not; with the county authorities, certainly not. You and Brussels have consulted and accepted the UMP. This, by the way, has resulted in what it is. On the other hand, as part of the country-walking process, we continuously accept the proposals and opinions from the mayors, pastors, NGOs and so on of the villages, and in the framework of this country-walking, the program was created at all, and we continue to form the program. So I think that this is a well-thought-out rural policy when we discuss the content with the stakeholders themselves. I am very pleased that Mr Arató is now keen to support the inclusion of the place of origin in the ID card, but I would just like to point out that his opinion has changed, therefore, given that he was a political secretary of state in the government cycle that wanted to eliminate the concept of place of origin in the register. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that my fellow Member has changed his opinion. On behalf of my fellow Member, Mr Toszeg, I am convinced that he is using an unfortunate tragedy to create a political mood. Here's the thing. The mayor of Tószeg, although I do not know that he has actually said this, which you have quoted, that he does not have the opportunity to renovate that outskirts road, the fact is that Tószeg did not submit a road renovation to the Hungarian village. By the way, I looked at him, and he didn't even submit a tender for road renovation in the rural development program. This opportunity would have been available to Mr. Mayor. But I don't want to talk to the mayor, but I want to talk to you about using such a tragedy to create a political mood is irresponsible. My fellow Member Bencsik, whom I do not see right now, is asking us to support the modernisation of existing homes instead of the village CSOK, instead of encouraging new build houses. Otherwise, it would be worth drawing the attention of all my opposition colleagues to the fact that it might be worth diving on the subject and getting a little information about the Hungarian village programme. My fellow Christian Member does not even know the name of the program, he consistently calls it the program of modern villages, which is called the "Hungarian village" program. I would also like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Bencsik, that the village CSOK is used for the purchase and simultaneous modernisation of used property and for the modernisation of existing homes, and besides the baby shower support and VAT refund support, together with the village CSOK, a total amount of up to HUF 25-30 million in non-refundable grants may be required for the development and modernisation of these homes. Allow me not to continue, and I do not consider my fellow Member Varga-Damm's speeches. In all, I would like to thank you, by the way, if I understand correctly, all the factions have said that they will support this bill. I'm counting on your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16 a.m. on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft legislation between Hungary and the Russian Federation on the publication of the Convention on Social Security until its closure. The government referral is T/9471. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lőrinczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-10-120	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The Government of Hungary consistently strives to develop our country's bilateral relations dynamically and deepen its relations with as many states as possible. When establishing international treaties, it is legitimate to expect the agreement concerned to be both favourable to citizens and to promote bilateral economic relations. The social security agreements concluded by Hungary meet these objectives. Our conventions ensure the preservation of the acquired rights of citizens and insured persons and the enforcement of their rights in cases where it is not possible to do so because of the application of national law on its own and, in addition, by resolving insurance issues, they also have an impact in support of bilateral economic relations. Hungary also signed such an agreement with the Russian Federation as its key partner in Budapest on 30 October 2019. The long and complex negotiation process has resulted in a balanced international treaty based on the principle of proportionate burden-sharing, giving our countries a new perspective on long-standing social security relations. As the predecessor of our new treaty, an agreement was reached in 1962, in a significantly different set of conditions and principles and in other economic and social relations, then between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Soviet Union. However, the so-called Hungarian-Soviet social policy agreement did not meet the expectations of the age even at the time of the regime change, and because of the dynamic change in bilateral relations it has clearly become obsolete over the last decades. The modern social security agreement breaks with the application of the territorial principle, according to which benefits are paid by the competent institution of the country in whose territory the lawyer has a permanent residence, irrespective of the payment of contributions. In line with this principle, the application of this principle for decades was a disproportionate budgetary burden among the Contracting Parties, particularly for Hungary. The competent State is no longer responsible for the provision of the benefits, but is responsible for the insurance, i.e. the place where the contributions are paid. Another important achievement of the new legislation is that the scope of benefits covered by the Convention has changed, thus, unlike its predecessor, it does not cover social benefits, i.e. aid and compulsory health insurance. With regard to Hungary, pensions fall within the scope of this Convention for the benefit of persons with disabilities and for the benefit of an accident. From the point of view of citizens, the priority of the Convention is that, in cases where the autonomous application of the national law of the Contracting Parties does not allow the establishment of benefits because of the lack of entitlement, the new rules empower the determining authorities to establish benefits in proportion to the burden on the country by calculating the periods of insurance completed under the law of the two countries. By facilitating the acquisition of rights, it can be avoided that persons working in both countries in their lives will be deprived of the benefits covered by the Convention only because the country itself does not have the period of service to create pension rights. In addition to protecting the interests and acquired rights of citizens, the Convention clearly specifies which Contracting State's law applies to the persons covered by it, as a general rule indicating the country where the work is carried out. In this way, double contributions can be avoided in the contracting countries as an important benefit for citizens. [[13.30]] The detailed rules of the applicable law, including the institution of posting which may be used as an exception for economic reasons, will also help to stimulate relations between economic operators of the Contracting Parties and mutual investment. The Government of Hungary is convinced that by replacing the obsolete treaty currently applied to the Russian Federation with a new Social Security Convention, we will establish a favourable and fair legal framework for our citizens and contribute to the development and completion of bilateral economic relations. In view of this particular importance, I call on this House to give a favourable welcome to the draft law declaring the Hungarian-Russian social security treaty. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-10-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bilateral social security relations between Hungary and the Russian Federation are governed by a convention that was concluded almost 60 years ago. It was timely for a new convention to replace unconventional regulation. Meanwhile, the principles governing social security have evolved and our country has become a member of the European Union. We must take into account that the economic and political changes in recent decades require that the social agreement concluded with the Soviet Union in 1962 be replaced by a modern new regulation in line with the interests of our countries. The aim of the Convention is to establish social security relations between the two countries, in line with European values, in support of the free movement of citizens, and thus to develop bilateral economic relations. The rights of nationals of States Parties acquired in the social security systems of the two countries will thus be guaranteed, so that, by coordinating the social security systems of Hungary and Russia, the regulatory system for working in the territory of the other country can be based on a secure basis. For example, persons who have completed periods of insurance in the pension insurance systems of both countries will also have the rights acquired by persons entitled to pension benefits under Hungarian and Russian law, as well as by persons entitled under the law of the deceased person. The international treaty before us also allows posted workers to remain under the jurisdiction of the State of posting and thus retain their insurance status in that State. Although the scope of the Convention is narrower than the scope of the original Social Policy Convention, since health insurance does not cover benefits in kind and does not cover social benefits which are not social security benefits, it is important to note, however, that it lays down the protection of rights acquired under the Social Policy Convention and includes additional guarantee provisions relating to entry into force. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the international treaty in question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-10-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Balczó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-124	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Social policy and social security agreements regulate, inter alia, social security obligations and entitlement to benefits in the case of work abroad, as well as rules on the use of them. It is perhaps worth mentioning that Hungary has such a social security agreement with 15 countries, from Albania to Canada to South Korea. If this figure is considered to be insufficient, it is also because, within the European Union, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which has been incorporated into the mandatory legislation by the Lisbon Treaty, with the exception of the United Kingdom and Poland, is relevant in this matter. So the Charter is decisive for these countries. We still have two so-called social policy living conventions. One was concluded in 1959 with Yugoslavia. This has survived today in connection with Kosovo because we have concluded a separate treaty with the other Yugoslav successor states or, as a member of the European Union, the relationship between Croatia and us is also covered by the said Charter of Fundamental Rights. The treaty with the Soviet Union entered into force on 1 July 1963. Here was an interesting question: after the termination of the Soviet Union, the fate of these social contracts was stated on 26 December. Well, it was not considered by the vast majority of Member States as a consequence of succession. The result is that this Convention was applied in the bilateral relations between Hungary and the Russian Federation and Ukraine. The Secretary of State has also said one of the most important changes in this area, namely, in the case of pensions, the payment of benefits will not be governed by residence, but by the burden borne by the State required to pay the benefits will be adapted to the period acquired. So there is no situation where, after the replacement of a Hungarian address card, people from Russia, Ukraine who have not paid into the Hungarian pension fund in any way can claim the right to receive Hungarian benefits, so this is a fundamental and important change. Unfortunately, this is only happening at the moment with regard to the Russian Federation. So I urge the government to seek such a new agreement with Ukraine as soon as possible. I also know that not to say that I hold the government accountable, but to encourage it, because I know that there is an intention. As I understand, such a treaty was already concluded in 12, but it is not possible to ratify it, but it is not possible to bring it to law because of the constantly uncertain domestic political situation in Ukraine, but obviously this is the anomaly that arises in the case of pension payments, especially in relation to Ukrainian citizens who are relocating from Ukraine, so it would be important to achieve such a new type of contract here as well. In the meantime, however, there is work to be done, namely that the address or address card alone does not allow this procedure to be paid out or received, but rather to stay at the declared address as a way of life. Therefore, in this respect, it is possible to limit the rate of such pension payments. Once again, it's not the address card you need, it's just a condition, the lifestyle of staying there. Of course, this also raises an anomaly when, in the House of Hungary during the elections, there are 40 people announced with a address card, who in this case vote for a particular candidate, and we know what abuse this has caused. So once again, until we can reach a similar new social policy agreement with Ukraine, the possibility of excluding abuse is to verify that there are fictitious addresses or life-style residences. Of course, this new social policy agreement will be supported by Jobbik in its publication in the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Convention on social security concluded between the two countries replaces the Convention on social security which was previously signed with the Soviet Union. [[13.40]] It was therefore necessary to establish and publish a modern convention adapted to the circumstances of today. A similar agreement has recently been signed with the Russian Federation on mutual recognition of diplomas, educational qualifications and scientific degrees. Relations between Hungary and Russia have been established. Hungarian companies are constantly increasing their market share in Russia, mainly in the agricultural, food, pharmaceutical and medical industries, as well as in the field of water management. The Hungarian-Russian Intergovernmental Committee for Economic Cooperation meets regularly, and the Hungarian-Russian Interregional Cooperation Committee is also established. Its task is to prepare and monitor investments, trades between the two countries, as well as to help Hungarian companies enter the Russian market. To this end, the government also opened the representation of the Hungarian Export Development Agency in Moscow at the end of last year, and the Eximbank's $495 million framework is also intended to facilitate Hungarian companies in the Russian market. It is important for Hungary to continue its pragmatic and economic cooperation. Therefore, the KDNP fraction supports the publication of the current convention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-10-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-128	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I also predict that the MSZP will support the adoption of this treaty and then its publication. Actually, we've been waiting ten years for this, so let's be clear. This Treaty and the Treaty on Social Policy Cooperation and Security, drawn up on the basis of this, were negotiated before 2010. In the case of Ukraine, I know for a fact, and also at the time of the transfer-over, I say to the Minister of State, that all the documents remained at the time of the handover-over at the Minister of Chancellor's after the change of government in 2010. Please, three wallets had to deal with these contracts: the State Department, the Health and Social Wallet. I would also like to point out that I should like to mention a few things, although my fellow Member Balczó has said that he is grateful to God, this is in line with the European legal order, because whether it is the Charter of Fundamental Rights or other decisions of the European Union and of the European Council, and in this respect I believe that this should be supported and supported. This contract shall cover the rights acquired in respect of employment and their recognition. The draft contract shows that, of course, it will be treated differently than simply a worker on this issue in the case of members of diplomatic bodies, consular personnel and workers involved in passenger and freight traffic. I would like to stress that such a treaty is necessary, as it was at the time: as you said, Mr Secretary of State, we are talking about a treaty concluded in 1962 and published in. The situation with the countries with whom we joined in connection with EU accession was simple, as with the two Member States of Czechoslovakia and later Yugoslavia, because, for example, when recognising pensions, we had to switch to the pro-rata principle. This means that there is a common burden, and everyone must pay their share of the workers when, for example, they wish to retire. This is right or right, and this, I stress, should be welcomed. To cancel the territorial principle, two unscrupulous sentences are required. One is that if there are 100 cases of problems, and Mr Balczó also referred to this, if there are 100 cases of problems, then 90-92 of them appear in the relationship between Ukraine and Hungary, and they remain in relation to the citizens of all other former Soviet republics 2-3. So you have to understand this, I think it is clear to everyone: if there are 10,000 abuses in the Ukrainian-Hungarian pension, then there are only 2-3 in Russian relations. I would be able to support him to the farthest possible extent if Mr. Secretary of State brought the Ukrainian-Hungarian treaty here in the next few weeks. I would like to stress that these draft contracts were completed ten years ago. Moreover, in many cases, the Hungarian government did not want to solve this problem, but rather created this problem. I don't suppose they wanted to buy votes in the last two or three elections, but I know for sure that reports, movies I saw with my two eyes appeared in the Ukrainian media from week to week, and I heard with my ears, not from someone who encouraged people in Transcarpathia and Ukraine to come to Hungary, because here you can get a damn good pension. There was an example, and I can tell you his name was Anastazia Friday, who is the Deputy Director of the Social Insurance Directorate of Transcarpathia, who said that they had a pension counseling day, and there they took 7,000 forms for the advisory day, and all 7,000 were taken with them. Obviously, the Tisza didn't want to release paper boats from it. I think that every application was later published in the Hungarian pension system. I would also like to make it clear that, up to four years ago, the Pension Board published each year the statistical yearbook in which it was possible to follow what the stock statistics were for the previous year. In the last four years, statistics on foreign assessments, foreign references and applications submitted in Hungary are not published anywhere. It is necessary to obtain information with written questions, litigation and public data requests! In addition, they made the mistake of always bringing the same statistical data for several consecutive interpellations or written questions, which, say, were made three years ago. It is clear that this is a lie, and it is clear that there is something very, very much they want to hide. It is to be praised, as I mentioned, that it is stated in this agreement that a worker cannot be insured in two countries at the same time. This is also appropriate because this should happen in the European Union anyway. I would also like to anticipate that I have already mentioned a few things in connection with the Convention, but I do not really want to repeat them, but I would like to mention them, confirming that Mr Secretary of State encourages the Government or his minister to prepare the treaty on Ukrainian-Hungarian social security as soon as possible and bring it to the House. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-10-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-130	Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to multiply the word unnecessarily and repeat what Mr Balczó and my excellent colleague, Mr Korózs, have said. However, I would stress for the sake of the Democratic Coalition and for the sake of my new fellow Members who have just arrived that the Democratic Coalition does not understand that if the government with Russia has managed to solve this problem, if it has been able to do with Russia a modern one [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] By agreement replace the outdated Hungarian-Soviet agreement of 62; why, in the case of Ukraine, is unable to do so; when, as Parliamentary Secretary Korózs mentioned, our government handed this over to your government in a ready-to-negotiate manner. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]] I did not miss it, my fellow Members, neither mutual intention nor professional preparation. The only thing missing is the will. For you, the fact is that anyone who has the best taste for the Hungarian pension will apply for the Hungarian pension without being able to verify whether they have real data or not. You will receive a pension of up to 200-300 thousand HUF for your home pension, for which you have not worked, let alone in Hungary, or even in Ukraine. But it suits you perfectly, this is good for your political purpose, and because, dear fellow Members, Congressman Korózs is naively saying that he does not know that he is behind this election. [[13.50]] I'm not that naive. The reports produced during this period showed very clearly and very well that the false, fictitiously announced fictitious voters arrive by bus with pre-filled ballot-paper samples. The reason why you have the Ukrainian pension business is because this is what you hope for. Let's not talk in riddles, it's in your political interest. It's the same buy-in as a lot of other things. If the government had an intention, it could replace the Hungarian-Ukrainian agreement with a modern agreement, just like the Hungarian-Russian agreement. I also called on the Minister of Foreign Affairs today to say that if he seems to be trying to settle Hungarian-Ukrainian relations, he should also address this issue, because it is also crucial for Hungarian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, So what I can say is that there is nothing wrong with this bill other than the fact that the draft Hungarian-Ukrainian social agreement, which addresses real problems, has not come before Parliament. That's what they bring in here, and then I believe they're capable of handling this issue. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-10-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible for two minutes of speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The ordinary speeches will then take place. Congressman Csaba Gyure asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Balczó, my fellow group member, has already said that Jobbik Hungary's Movement supports this proposal. He also talked to several of my opposition fellow Members about the fact that we would prefer to have this treaty not in Russian-Hungarian relations, but in Hungarian-Ukrainian relations, since that is where most of the problem, 98 percent, comes from. You have acknowledged and acknowledged this, and I have already addressed a question to the government in this direction, but I have not actually received a substantive answer to this question. But it was clear that over the last decade thousands, even almost tens of thousands, have moved into Ukraine's northeast border with a fictitious home address. There are many of them who are trying to get into the Hungarian pension system. Why does it matter to them? Let's see what the average pension is in Hungary: the average pension is now around 135 thousand in Hungary. Those relocating, I apologize, do not relocate, but create a home address in Hungary, and thus use the pension system, the amount of the pension will be much higher than that laid down. Why? It's because they have to prove what kind of job they've worked in. Some well-paid jobs are certified in Hungary, and they will receive the pension on the basis of the Hungarian average. And obviously, they won't prove a job as an auxiliary worker, obviously they won't justify a job with a small salary, but a large wager, because it doesn't cost so much out there to do that. In this way, this pension is very often over 200,000 forints, and in many cases it exceeds 300,000 forints. And we also find that there is a huge contradiction. The average pension of the population in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, especially in the border area of Bereg, is in many cases below 100 thousand forints, even under 80 thousand forints, and is around 60 thousand forints. These people see that those who have never worked an hour, not a minute in Hungary, take home the multiple of this, five times as many times as they have never made any payment to the Hungarian pension fund, compared to those who have always lived here and worked here in their lifetime, and have worked 40-45 years. [[The notary seats are occupied by György Szilágyi and Attila Gelencsér.]] How much is the pension over there? I don't know how much you're aware of, but I do know how much the pension is there. We see that after a serious pension increase in Ukraine, the pension is well understood, well heard, 20 thousand forints a month, and not only in Hungary, but also in Ukraine, it is not possible to make a living in any form. Therefore, the establishment of a home address and the application for a pension in Hungary is starting to become a business. My fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, said that the main problem is that they are setting up a home address, but they do not live here in a lifestyle. And how many times has it happened, and how many times have we discovered that there are 150 people registered in an apartment or a dairy establishment. I'm saying that in this case, the government is repeatedly accomplice to circumventing the law. He's getting involved because he's failing to verify if these are real addresses, whether they're actually living here. A lot of people pass through when they take the pension, they come over the same day with a translation, because most of them don't know a word in Hungarian, so the person comes over from somewhere in Internal Ukraine, takes his pension, the interpreter turns him in the mail when he takes the pension, then goes home with the same momentum, and spends the pension he has acquired in Ukraine, pays the general tax on sales, the consumer tax, and everything will be used there in Ukraine, and in this case Hungary will only be paying. When I asked the government in this direction, I was answered that there were checks, and in 17 cases it was even revealed that the pension had been taken illegally in 17 cases, I stress. But there are thousands of these cases. I'm accusing the government of accomplice here because he doesn't want to reveal these abuses. Because if you wanted to explore them, you could eliminate them in Hungary with a mass of them, which is an abomination to so many people, and they feel unfair about this system. That is why I call on the Government to conduct these negotiations with Ukraine as soon as possible and to bring a similar draft before the Parliament, which will no longer be in force with Russia, but with Ukraine, and will be concluded with them. Please do this as soon as possible, because otherwise this will cause more and more problems in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[It's constant noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and to hold back the level of discussion a little, because there has been a great deal of background noise. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and place their voting cards in the apparatus. I ask my fellow Members that there is another person who wishes to participate in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Lőrinczi, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to allow the Secretary of State to say his answer in a calm manner. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-134	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. What I can say to the opposition is that even if I understand their one-sided love somewhere against the Ukrainian regime and the Ukrainian state, this is not the same as the fact that we can launch the Ukrainian state in the matter of whether it is a treaty like this that the Ukrainian State actually ratifys, finalizes, or even seriously negotiates. These questions should be asked the next time by the Ukrainian system, the Ukrainian government, because they will be able to answer this in the most precise time. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate is adjourned. Further items will be discussed after the decisions have been taken. Now we have decisions to make. I will wait for my fellow Members to take their seats and place their cards in the apparatus. [[It's a short break.]] [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, It's 2:01 a.m., and we'll continue our work with a decision. As I said, the adjourned agenda items will be discussed after the decision has been taken. It follows that T/9272 amending the Agreement on maritime transport between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the People's Republic of China, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9272. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 187 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The T/9273 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on international carriage of passengers and goods by road is now being published. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9273. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 179 votes against, 1 against and 8 abstentions. It follows now that the T/9274 on the announcement of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the construction, operation, maintenance, reconstruction and response of natural gas transmission lines crossing the common border. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9274. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 177 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. We now have T/9276 on the announcement of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the United Nations on the establishment of a Regional Programme Support Office for the United Nations Office against Terrorism in Budapest. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9276. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 189 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now time for T/9280 to amend certain laws necessary to combat the exploitation of victims of trafficking in human beings. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9280/11 and T/9280/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of § 3, the DK Group proposed to maintain Amendment No 3 and the MSZP Group's amendment No 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gergely Arató and Ágnes Vadai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and László Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 132 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9280/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 184 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9280/15. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 188 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now up to T/9283 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of investments to achieve the public interest objective. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9283/6 and T/9283/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House that the House Rules of the Decision are 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/9283/6. A separate vote was initiated on points 4 and 8 of the proposed amendment. [[14.10]] First, we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the points requested for a separate vote, and then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 1 and 2 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9283/6. Points 1 and 2 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. We now decide on the adoption of points 4 and 8 of the substantive amendment, which require a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9283/6. Point 4 and 8 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed amendments by 133 votes to 53, with three abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9283/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 53 against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I would also like to inform you that if, during the final vote, the Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority, the House Rule 50 of the Decision shall apply. In the absence of a separate decision pursuant to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of Section 3 of this Article, it also covers the withdrawal of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the provisions not adopted. Therefore, in this case, we do not decide on this among the provisions of the single proposal which require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9283/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes to 54, with two abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9283/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 54 against and 2 abstentions. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. T/9284. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. Dear House, T/9284/6 and T/9284/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 3 and 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9284/6. Point 1, 3 and 4 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 53 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point in the summary amendment requiring a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9284/6. Point 2 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted point 2 of the summary amendment by 133 votes to 53, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I would like to inform you that if, during the final vote, the Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority, the House Rules of Decision 50. In the absence of a separate decision pursuant to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of Section 3 of this Article, it also covers the withdrawal of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the provisions not adopted. Therefore, in this case, we do not decide on this among the provisions of the single proposal which require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9284/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9284/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are now at the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[14.20]] I would like to ask my fellow Members who will not participate in the debates over the coming period to try to leave the Chamber so that we can continue our debate. Dear Parliament, We continue our work with general debates. A joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol to the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, with a view to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, on the draft law on the publication of a protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, until closure follows. The government referral is T/9467 and T/9469. can be accessed by numbers on the House's IT network for all of us. I declare that the proposals will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear House, First, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, the author of the bill. [[It's constant noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that the Secretary of State can say his expose. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the legislative proposals is to recognise the publication and binding effect of two protocols which have become necessary as a result of Croatia's accession to the European Union. Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and to the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, having regard to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Under the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia undertakes to accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the Union and its Member States by means of protocols annexed to these agreements. Accordingly, the purpose of the protocols to be published is Croatia's accession to the agreements. The Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union was signed in Brussels on 20 December 2018. The ratification of the Protocol is currently under way and has not yet entered into force. The Protocol shall be applied on a provisional basis as from 1 July 2013, pending the completion of the procedures necessary for its entry into force. The Agreement on the basis of which the Protocol is based has been in force since 1 July 2000 between Israel and the European Union. The agreement provides an opportunity to strengthen security and stability while maintaining political dialogue. The agreement has established cooperation in areas such as illegal migration, money laundering, drug trafficking, the fight against organised crime and corruption, but also covers communication and audiovisual and cultural areas. The Protocol to the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union was signed in Brussels on 21 June 2017. The Protocol entered into force on 1 August 2018, and should therefore be published by the Member States. Dear Parliament, The EU is an important partner for South Korea due to its Western attachment, economic weight and regional relations. Further deepening bilateral relations has many advantages for Hungary. One of the pillars of this is the Free Trade Agreement, which was finalised in autumn 2009, and the Framework Agreement signed in 2010, which brought political, environmental, development policy, scientific and educational relations between the EU and South Korea to a higher level. The Framework Agreement provides for cooperation in areas such as the fight against terrorism and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Cooperation areas include climate change, illegal migration, drug trafficking, money laundering, organised crime and the fight against corruption. I would like to inform you that the protocols are part of the agreements published by the law, so they must also be published by law. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-10-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-138	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It was a memorable year for us 2011, especially the first six months of this year, when Hungary, so to speak, passed the European Union's baptism of fire when Hungary was the first in history to hold the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It has been an ambitious six months and a Presidency for us, and the government has taken its part, but I could also say that the Members of Parliament have also worked for this success. It was a Presidency that, with its programme, I believe, has made a lasting contribution to the history of the Union, which, after nine years, has stood the test of time. After all, as I recall, in addition to and despite the many, many unworthy attacks, the goals set by the Hungarian Presidency have been achieved. This was, for example, the conclusion of the accession process in Croatia, which was successful in the last days of June 2011, allowing Croatia to join the European Union on 1 July 2013. I can safely say, Mr President, that if this had not happened during our Presidency, Croatia's membership of the EU would have suffered an impeccable delay. Today we can be proud that Croatia has been a member of the European Union for the seventh year, and this is a great step forward, not only for the benefit of our southern neighbour, but also for the benefit of Hungary. [[14.30]] And the next big step for full Croatian integration is the accession of our southern neighbour to the Schengen area, which would allow for the uncontrolled transit of passenger and freight traffic at the southern border. Mr President, However, Croatia's accession has had and has had a number of legal consequences, as Mr Secretary of State has said, and this joyful change must be passed through a number of agreements and documents. It is also true that the two agreements we have just negotiated have been preceded by a number of similar legislative proposals. The discussion of the legislative proposals before us by now, I could say, is becoming almost routine, and we can see that this process takes quite a long time. I believe that for its part, the Hungarian legislation can do only to adopt the bill on the publication of the minutes as soon as possible, thereby supporting the Croatian party in fulfilling its commitments. In view of this, Mr President, the Fidesz faction supports these two legislative proposals and recommends that Parliament adopt them. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to practical reasons, I believe that there is a kind of symbolic significance for this support, because Hungarian-Croatian relations are developing in a very positive direction, and we have a strong multi-layered relationship system with the country holding the current presidency. And the latest success is that our trade relations are soaring, last year the record of trade flows has been broken, and we can talk about more than EUR 2.5 billion. And I should also mention such a positive development, the cooperation agreement with the University of Fiume on the education of Hungarian language and culture. So it is clear that, thanks to the persistent work of the civilian government, we are building a close neighbourly relationship with Croatia. On the margins of these proposals, it is also worth mentioning briefly the Israeli-Hungarian relations, Mr President. With this strategically key player in the Middle East, I believe it is obvious to everyone that we have very good relations, characterised by close intergovernmental and political cooperation based on common values. I believe that one of the best examples of this is the UN Global Migration Package, which is jointly rejected. In addition to political cooperation, our relations also have great potential in the fields of cooperation in education and training, innovation and the defence industry. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to our bilateral relations, I would also like to say a few words about the importance of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership. These three pillars of cooperation, which, if I remember correctly, started in 1995, laid the foundations for a new regional relationship system. And I believe that, in all respects, we can categorize this as one of the most dynamic businesses in the Union, and we can only take into account the fact that it includes Israel and many Arab countries, thereby creating a kind of opportunity for a more inclusive dialogue. This cooperation, if I may say, is of greater importance today, given the common challenges facing regional states, and I therefore believe it is also important to draw attention to the untapped potential of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership. Honourable Congressman, Since 2004, the Hungarian Parliament has also taken part in the parliamentary dimension of this partnership. Since 2010, as Head of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Delegation of the Hungarian Parliament, I can only confirm that Parliament's representatives have done their work in this area in an excellent manner, regardless of party standing, which I would also like to thank you for. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I have to talk about South Korean-Hungarian relations. It is well known that there has been a diplomatic relationship between our countries for more than 31 years, and I am proud that in the autumn of 1990 I was the first representative of the freely elected Hungarian Parliament to visit the Republic of Korea. I believe that this visit to Parliament's relations was perhaps an event that brought about a new impetus in the relations that were still primitive at the time, which was beginning to develop between the two countries. Since then, a strong and decisive relationship has been established, characterised by mutual friendship and cooperation. South Korea is one of the world's largest and most innovative economies and one of the central players in the government's Eastern opening policy. Mr President, The Republic of Korea trusts Hungary to further strengthen our relations In November 2019 the new building of the Korean Cultural Centre was inaugurated. Last but not least, I have to mention that the third meeting of the Hungarian-Korea Joint Committee on Economic Cooperation was held in December, on the outskirts of which the Hungarian Government concluded a strategic agreement with the Korean development bank, which would thus open a regional centre in Hungary and further encourage Korean investments. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, I would like to ask you to support the two legislative proposals, taking into account the above. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Since both the Secretary of State and the Chief Speaker of Fidesz have described very in detail our relations with the States concerned by these two legislative proposals, I would disregard to say them again in the walls of this House. I would like to draw your attention personally to two things, because yesterday, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we had the opportunity to exchange ideas with the Croatian Ambassador on the most important strategic goals of the Croatian EU Presidency and on Hungarian-Croatian relations, and in this debate I pointed out that the year 2020 is also a Zrínyi commemorative year connecting both countries, according to the decision of the Hungarian Parliament, and it seems that the Croatian State will also join. My fellow Member, Ádám Steinmetz, as Vice-President of the Hungarian-Croatian Interparlamental Union, presented a proposal to name 3 May as the Day of Hungarian-Croatian Friendship. Preparatory negotiations are also under way. So I think that, in such a very serious symbolic year, we will be able to ratify these international treaties, which I naturally support on behalf of Jobbik. In relation to South Korea, I would just like to mention here with respect that I myself am a member of the friendly department of the Hungarian-South Korean Interparlamental Union, which is doing an extremely intensive and meaningful work, by the way. In addition, recently, Moses Csoma became an ex-college colleague of mine and a good friend of mine, the South Korean Hungarian ambassador, who became a very seriously listed scientist at international level, a representative of Hungary in South Korea, and his person is a guarantee that the cooperation involved in this contract will reach a higher level. I therefore, of course, grant both proposals on behalf of the Jobbik. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, in view of the very detailed history, I would also like to highlight the essential elements of the two legislative proposals. [[14.40]] The T/9467. Proposal No 3 provides for the publication of a Protocol to the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, with a view to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Framework Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Korea puts political, environmental, development policy, scientific, educational and civil relations between the two parties to a new higher level. It provides an opportunity to significantly broaden cooperation, dominated so far primarily by economic and trade issues, and to take joint action against global challenges. The agreement complies with the political interests of the European Union and envisages cooperation in such important areas as the protection of human rights, the fight against terrorism or the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In the spirit of joint action against global challenges, it will create greater cooperation in areas such as climate change, illegal migration and money laundering. The T/9469. Proposal No 1 provides for the publication of a Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, with a view to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The aim of the Agreement is to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue, enabling the development of close political relations between the Parties, and to promote the harmonious development of economic relations between the Community and Israel by enhancing trade in goods and services and by stimulating scientific and technological cooperation, thus contributing to the development of economic activity in the Community and Israel, the improvement of living and employment conditions and financial stability. The agreement also provides for further cooperation in areas such as money laundering, drug trafficking, extending cooperation to communication and audiovisual and cultural areas. KDNP supports both legislative proposals and ask for their support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-143	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am in a very easy position to speak for such educated friends, and I am only doing so to take up a few minutes of their time to join in all the wise, clever thoughts that have been said here in the last few minutes. One small thought: we were lucky here in the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday to listen to the Croatian ambassador, and I think that the relatively clear and clear thoughts and intentions that came out of his mouth, but obviously on behalf of his government, for this six-month year, are a serious guarantee that Croatia is serious about this whole thing. So every proposal, whether it was an agreement from 10 years ago or the ratification of an agreement from 25 years ago with Croatia in this way, I think it is in Hungary's primary interest, which is why I stood up. By the way, I would have said that I would join the speakers before me, and our faction would support this in the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-10-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank all the keynote speakers for their support for the proposal that has been tabled, and I would like to ask them to continue this way during the debate. Thank you.
u2020-03-10-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the declaration of Káptalandomb as a national memorial place in Győr until closure. The government referral is T/9475. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-10-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill on the declaration of Káptalandomb as a national memorial place in Győr proposes that one of the most important parts of Győr with a historical history be declared a national memorial place, to which the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. It is necessary to amend Annex 2 to the Act. The protection and accessibility of national memorial sites is a public interest in which public and municipal bodies, religious communities, religious legal entities, civil and other organisations and natural persons themselves are involved. The protection covers the preservation of the dignity of the national memorial place and the conditions of worthy commemoration, the maintenance and maintenance of its historically authentic, uniform image and historic appearance, as well as the promotion of development and investment for these purposes. National memorial sites are sites of major importance in the history of the nation, which, by virtue of their identity-forming nature that strengthens the union of Hungarian nations and nationalities in Hungary, are of particular importance in the nation's self-image, as well as sites that can be the scenes of national state commemoration. The National Assembly can declare such sites to be a national memorial place by law. Currently we find 16 national memorial sites in Hungary. The last three, the Széchenyi Castle in Nagycenk, the castle in Szigetvár and the parts of Esztergom Várhegy and Víziváros were declared national monuments in 2016. The heart of Káptalandomb is the largest city in northwest Hungary, where the majority of the city's monuments are located, including the basilica, the Bishop's Castle, the Saint László Visitor Center, the Győr Church County Treasury and Library and educational institutions can be found on this site. Apart from the people and workers here, more than 100,000 visitors arrive every year, hundreds of tourists visit the cathedral and the visitor center every day, and virtually every weekend there is a ceremonial event at the Chaptalandom. The Basilica and Bishop's Castle on the Chaptalom are symbols of Catholicism in Western Hungary. A multitude of believers walk away every year to the image of the basilica's bleeding, tearing virgin. The herma of St. Laszlo is also preserved here, which is the most important sacral monument of Hungary next to the Saint Crown and the Saint Right. The Szent László cult, the maintenance of common traditions in Győr and Pannonhalm also offers a great opportunity in church tourism. The cathedral also contains the tomb of Bishop Vilmos Apor, who suffered martyrdom during World War II and was blessed in 1997. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I believe that it is justified to declare the Káptalandomb in Győr a national memorial place, and I would therefore like to ask you all and encourage you all to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Robert Simon. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-150	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In my parliamentary constituency, in the centre of the historic downtown of Győr, there is Káptalandomb, which is of outstanding importance and is one of the most historic parts of our city. This is the oldest part of the town of Győr, situated at the intersection of the Mosoni-Duna and the Rába rivers, whose picture today is the result of almost three millennia of development. The line of the building of the streets and the squares, the layout of the houses, the apparent installation irregularity is not a coincidence: every corner of the Káptalandomb has a specific reason and a history. Here are two of the oldest and most important monuments of Győr, the Bishop's Castle and the Basilica. The bishopric of Győr was founded by our King Saint Stephen during the first decade of his reign, and the foundations of the Basilica of Győr were laid during his time. One of the most precious treasures of the diocese, the herma of our King St. Laszlo, and the tomb of our martyred bishop, Vilmos Happy Apor, can be seen in the impressive building. It is an important historical memory that II. Pope John Paul held a Mass here during his visit to Győr in 1996. The Szent László-herma is the most important sacral monument of Hungary in addition to the Holy Crown and the Saint Right. [[14.50]] The sacred relic was brought to Győr by the Transylvanian bishop of Napragi Demeter when he was appointed Chief Shepherd in 1607. Each year, on June 27, László Day, they carry around the herma of our holy king on a ceremonial procession. Another treasure of the basilica was the Tears' Lady's image, which was taken from Ireland by Irish bishop Walter Lynch in 1655 to Győr, which shed tears of blood at the Irish patron saint Saint Patrick's feast on 17 March 1697. In 1767 Bishop Ferenc Zichy erected a beautiful Baroque altar. It is also the tomb of Bishop Vilmos Happy in the Basilica, who was murdered on April 2, 1945 while protecting women and girls who fled to Bishop's Castle by Russian soldiers in a bad way. The martyred bishop, November 9, 1997, II. Pope John Paul made him happy. Ladies and gentlemen, A few thoughts about the buildings in Győr's Chatany Hill. This is where the Hotel Conference building operates, Apor Vilmos Square 3rd. The building is located in the center of the 1980s, according to the plans of József Lőrincz Ybl Prize-winning architect, as the guest house of the then Rába Magyar Vagon and Machine Factory. Partly in the building, part-supporting walls are included in the former III. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The walls and watchtowers of the Roman fortress of the century. The sidewall of the building's hill-floor terrace is partly the latter monuments, partly the XV. The Gothic wall of the century and the hidden base walls of the former city tower. The latter are therefore particularly significant, because they were the patronage of the only Hungarian castle that János Hunyadi himself could not take with siege. In front of the northwest facade of the building is the base wall of the former church older than St. Stephen's, as well as the statue of St. Michael's archangel. Second, I mention the building of the College of Faith Sciences, entitled Káptalandomb 7. The building was built in neo-Romanian style in the early 1920s, initially as a priestly seminar. He has been active in his current college since the 1990s. The bridge-like main entrance of the building is the XVI. It relies on the fortress wall of the century, the Castle Bastion in the garden of the building, which is the 16th century. The fort of the Renaissance corner of the century opens the entrance to its cannon room. The building is not primarily built as a monument, but is very high-quality training of the pastors of our faith. This is where I note that the building is being renovated today. Third, I refer to the Győr Diocese Treasury and Library building called Győr, Gutenberg tér 1. During several construction phases, the building gained the image of the present late Baroque. The former church-owned and priestly home building is the 18th. During the century, he gained a building upgrade using the building material of the medieval city tower, which was severely damaged in the former earthquake and demolished to the lower wall. The architectural significance of the book and treasury building is far superior to that of the collection of petty and rare books. The diocese treasury, most of which is a very significant collection of priestly and high priestly liturgical objects, clothing and sacrament facilities in Europe, was walled up in the church crypt of Carmelite in 1945 under secret conditions. Happy Bishop Vilmos Apor has at his disposal the Carmelite Prior, Bishop's Secretary, Dr. József Zagon later Secretary of Prince József Mindszenty and Diocese architect Gyula Szabó placed the treasures in boxes and walled them on 27 March 1945. Happy Bishop Vilmos Apor made a vow to the grave that the whereabouts of the hiding place would not be revealed until safe times came. At the end of the 1970s, the former Carmelite Prior announced in his will in Canada the hiding place of the treasures, which were completely and completely recovered, thus forming the most important treasures of the collection of the current treasury. Erzsébet Galgóczy made a memory of the novelous treasurery in a novel from which a film was made, called St. Christopher's Chapel. The diocese library preserves very important written material, from which the Corvina of King Matthias is of particular value. Fourth, I mention the Szent László Visitor Center building, called Győr, Káptalandomb 13. It has won its present form through several construction phases, its middle and base walls are medieval, its mass is Renaissance, its facade is Baroque style. The pass-through courtyard preserves the memory of the smaller medieval publics in the direction of Mosoni-Duna, which are characteristic of the present stage of Káptalandomb, in the form of a space wall. In front of the south wall of the building, the IV. The unexplored wall of the Roman fortress of the century. It carries its function on behalf of the building, which was completely renovated in 2012, to inform visitors of the sacral monuments, to help with publications and to receive groups. The building also features a public goods store, a buffet and a social block, which also meets the needs of disabled visitors. And last but not least, I would like to say a few thoughts about the Bishop's Castle building. It's called Győr, Chaptal Domb 1. One of Hungary's most important architectural heritage elements. Its origin dates back to Roman times, and its central tower has an age of 1700 years. It combines the administrative centre of the diocese with the seat of the bishop, the memorial place of the martyrdom of Bishop Vilmos Happy Apor, and the sacral and military architecture of Győr IV. From the century to today. From the point of view of protection, the sacral function and the built memories in this circle are clear, but the image is much more complex in terms of the architectural aspect of the war. The building of Bishop's Castle contains the walls of the former Roman watch tower and the connecting fortress, the walls of the castle of Ispanese from the time of King St. Stephen, the XV. The walls and structures of the Gothic Castle of the century, as well as the 16th century Gothic Castle. Renaissance fortress of the century, the fortifications, binding dams and the multi-storey kazamata system that embraces the entire Bishop's Castle and the entire historic downtown of Győr. The Bishop's Castle's garden is the latter, XVI. The Renaissance Fortress of the century rests on its corner fort called Castle Bastion above the rivers Rába and Mosoni-Danube, several floors high. The Castle Bastion forms a very tight built unit with a subterranean and subterranean kazamat, the Sforza half-stilt of the south and the Vienna Gate square, which is currently with lapidarium function and the Danube Bastion, which is the eastern continuation of the Castle Bastion. The unique value of the Renaissance Fortress is represented by its entire built unit, which also includes the Bishop's Castle, but significantly exceeds it in its territory, so it requires total protection. The value of both consciousness and Christianity is unique in Europe. In 1598, when recaptured, the world was celebrated at the time, and from today's perspective it is a significant historical event, together with most pamphlets, reports and a wide variety of artistic works. By him they called Győr Europe's gate, Europe's protective shield. The most important symbol of this world-historical event is the iron cock of Győr, which uniquely depicts the apostolic double cross, the orbock of the Reformation and the crescent moon. Its message to the world is still eternal and universal: -One is God! To commemorate the recapture of the castle of Győr, so-called Győr crosses proclaiming the victory of Christian faith still stand throughout Europe until Strasbourg. The Bishop's Castle of Győr thus includes four castles, each of which is of significance beyond the borders of our country. The Bishop's Castle, in the form of an inner courtyard with closed vaults outside the official buildings of the diocese, also includes the so-called Zwinger, a medieval, so-called dog pusher, which served as the foredoor for the Arx by melting the castle of Ispania into a Gothic castle. The two-storey Dóczy chapel is located at the intersection of the residential tower and Zwinger, which is a rare star of Gothic. [[15.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Joining in the introduction of the Secretary of State, I confirm that hundreds of thousands of people visit the Káptalandom on an annual basis, visit the celebrities and attractions I have just described, and, as I have said, there are several important institutions in Győr on the Káptalandom. On this basis, I fully support the declaration of Káptalandomb in Győr as a national memorial place, while at the same time calling the attention of my fellow Members, and giving an invitation to the fact that, if they are in Győr, they should definitely take a look at the interests and historical sights of the Káptalandom in Győr. For my part, on behalf of Fidesz, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, I confirm that I am fully in favour of the law declaring Káptalandomb a national memorial place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you very much for speaking with an artistic historical value. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I was very pleased when this proposal came before us and saw its title, because I fully agree with this and I also share the general explanation. I do not wish to extend my speech too long, as the pro-government proposal and the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction have well painted why the Káptalandom of Győr should become a national memorial place, so we can naturally support this in this form. I too have many personal memories attached to this place, and I also believe that it will be a worthy place among our national memorials. It would have been good for others to be given more serious attention on the part of the government and on the part of the former city leadership in relation to the historic memorial places in Győr, but I would not have brought these less pleasant stories here now, because I have spoken about them several times in Parliament, and I do not think that it is worthy of this elevated atmosphere that I am now messing with these stories, but it would have been really good if they had paid more attention to these historic monuments in Győr. So, in short, I wanted to say that the Jobbik faction will be able to support this bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-154	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I thank the Government for this important and forward-looking proposal, and I thank my fellow Member for giving us such a detailed presentation on the Káptalandom Hill and its history and values in Győr. Who would be more skilled at this than the elected Győr representative? The Secretary of State said that the last time he came here before the National Assembly was in 2016, there were 16 such national memorial sites in Hungary. Since it was four years ago, let us recall what this is, because the national memorial is a site of decisive importance in the history of the nation, which, by virtue of its nature, is of outstanding importance in the self-image of the nation, which can be a place of national commemoration, and which the National Assembly declares by law. I think that the justification also explicitly states that the protection of national memorial sites and what is very important to make available is a public interest, so that public bodies, municipal bodies, ecclesiastical legal persons, civil society organisations, various natural persons, historical institutions should be involved. I think that everyone has a job in caring for national memorial sites and preserving them for posterity, because when you think about these historical places, you often think of the word heritage. This is the legacy that our ancestors have built, and it is adventurous, often difficult, but yet glorious history, as my fellow Member has mentioned, we are now here because of the 21st century. In the century, and let's try to preserve this legacy. So this heritage is not only a legacy, but also a future, because it is our priority here in the Hungarian Parliament to preserve these built heritage, cultural, spiritual and spiritual heritage for posterity, and thus to become a future heritage, and we have a special responsibility in how we cultivate these memories, how we cultivate these memorial sites, how we protect them, how we protect them and how we support them. I therefore believe that the current bill is of particular importance. For the thousand-year-old Hungarian state owes its survival, its thousand-year history, and for us the preservation and protection of the memory of the thousand-year-old Christianity is a priority task, which, in addition to the development of local monuments, clearly promotes domestic tourism, as well as the reception of believers wishing to live their faith in decent conditions by well-established religious institutions and pilgrimage places. In the last ten years, a number of significant religious and historical sights have been renewed in the country, which are also welcomed by Hungarian and foreign tourists on the basis of the figures. Among other things, the historical building complex of the Zirci Cistercian Abbey has been renewed, the more than a thousand-year-old Pannonhalmi Bencés Abbey has been renovated, in 2016, the Tourist and Visit Centre of the Egri Archbishop Palace was inaugurated, which enriches the tourist attractions of the city with its unique collection, and so on. In many places in the country, a church, religious, building complex and tourist attraction related to our past and present have been renewed. The current bill aims to include the Káptalandomb in Győr on the list of national memorial sites, which is an outstanding part of Győr's history. In this part of the capital of Kisalföld there is the majority of the city's monuments, such as the basilica of Győr, Bishop's Castle, St. László Visitor Centre, the Treasury and Library of Church Diocese or the College of Faith Sciences. I myself have experienced these sights several times, as my fellow Member has said, hundreds of thousands of people visit each year, the significant engine of Győr's tourism is given by Káptalandomb. In addition to the Christian values, Káptalandomb also preserves the decisive memories of Hungarian history, the herma of St. László, which is one of the most important sacral monuments of Hungary in addition to the Holy Crown and the Saint Right. For all these reasons, the declaration of the Káptalandomb part of the old town of Győr as a national memorial place, we believe that not only the Győr people, but also the interests and common treasures of the Hungarians as a whole, so the KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Here and now, I can be brief again, and I stand up to make up for our serious debate last night, to say that I deeply agree with those who spoke before me, and I agree with the presentation. Obviously, this is an important and symbolic matter, and this is beyond discussion, and I would like to add one thing to this now: you have given me a very nice list, but you have left out one thing. What you missed, Szabolcs Szabó will do about it, as far as I know... [[Szabolcs Szabó: No!]] You won't? Aren't you going to get in? [[Szabolcs Szabó says no.]] I'll do it. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Anyway, he made a list of the basilicas of Győr, the Bishop's Castle, the Visitor Centre of St. László, the Treasury and Library of Győr, the College of Faith Sciences, and the Hotel Conference are also here, so there is a hotel in this ensemble. I don't think it's a tragedy, I'm telling you once again, it's just, you know, lately, we've been talking about what's going on in tourism, and in some way, the state and, by the way, private tourism are getting together, we're always a little sprained, and we feel like this is what we're dealing with, at least to draw the public's attention to this. Well, that's all I wanted to add. Obviously, I can honestly say that, from both the point of view of Hungarian history and the Church, I think it is deeply justified that this Káptalandomb is declared a national memorial place, it is at a very right moment, and it is clear that the government is working with steam to solve all kinds of problems, and has now come to this point. This is an important and right thing, just so on, we would like to say this on behalf of the opposition, move forward with this pace! Thank you very much. We will support this proposal in the vote.
u2020-03-10-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now is the opportunity for two-minute speeches, I ask you that someone would like to live with that. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. To make a proper speech, Mr Ákos Kara from the Fidesz Group has applied. I'll wait for the congressman to put his microphone on. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-158	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Győri, I was very pleased to see the bill before us, and I think that all people living in Győr and the region are pleased with this proposal, because there are few places in the country where Hungarian history is so felt. [[15.10]] In Győr's Chaptalom not only can be felt, but can be seen, and can be seen, the countless thousands of years of monuments, Roman times, the bishopry and church of St. Stephen, the Árpád-age, Gothic, Renaissance, Classicist and Baroque architectural values, the rook, the kazamats, the Turkish era, and we can still list the values of Győr for a long time. Not only for Christians, not only for Christendom, but for all members of the nation, the place of pilgrimage is the relic of St. Laszlo and the memorial of the martyrdom of William Happy Apor. The Káptalandomb and the Bishop's Castle, the Basilica stood up to the Tatars, the Turks, the French, the Austrian sieges, the destruction of the earthquake as well as the Hungarians survived the storms of the millenniums. Of course, I support the proposal as a Győr Member of Parliament, and I also ask the House to support the law, acknowledge, acknowledge, recognise the Káptalandomb in Győr, the Káptalandomb in Győr as a memorial place of great importance in the history of the nation and the Hungarian state. But before I tell you this summary, allow me to remember a few more things so that I can remember a few things, since our grandparents and great-grandparents rebuilt the II. After World War II, our city, together with our parents, was strengthened as a leader, and today we can remember, remember, the last 30 years, after which we recovered from the economic and unemployment shock after the change of regime with the diligence of the people of Győr and the people in the neighbourhood, and I would stress specifically that in the last 20 years, our city has developed and developed significantly with much government support. I'd like to spend some time at a building, one at a time, one at a time, one person who reported a lot to Győr, they mean a lot to Győr today, because they have done a lot for the city, but they mean a lot to Hungary, so I'm happy to share this information, because as you know, we are in the heart of Győr. Our cathedral, the first written memory of the Basilica, can be found by Bishop Hartvik of Győr. This document already includes our cathedral as a three-ship basilica. He experienced several renovations and reconstructions during the stormy centuries, of course. In addition to the devastation, church builders can be mentioned in great numbers, of course I will say them now without the need for completeness, but it is good to talk about them and to talk about them in the house of the country. János Hederváry Bishop of Győr, Bishop Ágoston Salánki, who had just begun the Gothic reconstruction in 1466 according to the documents. Later again came the period of destruction, which Bishop György Draskovics ended between 1634-1645. He's one of the church builders, the Győr builders. Giovanni Battista Rava signed a contract with Italian architect to rebuild the cathedral. And here we have to talk about that it is very important for us Hungarians and us Győrians that many people, professionals and masters from other nations have helped Győr develop over the centuries. The interior of the church was commissioned by Bishop Ferenc Zichy in another period of the XVIII. Hefele Menyhért was transformed into its present form by architect in the century. If we go further, as my fellow Member has mentioned, the Treasury and Library of Győr Diocese contains fantastic treasures: 67 thousand volumes of books, 190 ancient prints, the Corvina of Győr, which is a code from King Matthias's library, or even the Zalka codex, which is Hungary's largest, hand-made code, Pál Bornemissza's Renaissance Bishop's glass, which is quite unique and rare, and I could even mention here the Renaissance mass clothing called Matthias's Mass clothing, which was made in the workshop of Italian masters. Ladies and gentlemen, The date is very important for the Győrians on 28 March 1598 and it is also linked to the Káptalandomb and the castle of Győr, because this is the time when the troops under the command of Miklós Pálffy and Adolf Schwarzenberg blew the gate of the castle in Fehérvár, and it was possible to take back and recover Győr. It is connected to the beautiful and important Győr historicalism, which was a failure for the Turks and a great glory for us. In order to recall the iron cock legend of great importance to the Győrites, I would like to point out that in 1594 the town commander Hardegg handed over the castle to the Turks, the imperial cavalry did not arrive, that at that time the castle of Győr was considered impregnable, and that all of Europe was stunned by the fact that the well-built, well-equipped castle was transferred to the Turks. The Turk, trusting in the impregnability of the castle, built nothing permanent but a small pavilion above the Danube gate, on top of which the wind direction was erected a windcock and a crescent moon. It was proudly stated that Győr will be the Hungarians' again if the iron rooster speaks, and so for the Hungarians it is a hopeful tradition, and in today's times it is a beautiful story, a legend. After all, according to tradition, a Hungarian soldier, who knew the Turkish's prediction of the iron rooster, fought his way forward to the Danube gate, climbed up to the rooster, and there at dawn he began to croak with his trumpet. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the iron cock legend, this is the iron cock story that stitches up the Győr and the Győr neighborhoods. We are also proud of this as Győr, and, of course, of all those who have preserved, built, and, of course, we are proud of those who, in today's life, are helping the city to thrive with their daily work, their diligence, their ideas and their determination. I would therefore like to end by asking my fellow Members to support this important bill, which is important to us, and to help us to vote unanimously here in this House. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-160	Very briefly. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Member, I look around ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would like to thank all the speakers for their supporting contributions. I hope that there is a chance that Parliament will, indeed, unanimously support the bill before us, which is crucial for preserving our cultural heritage and our built heritage. Here, I would like to respond briefly to the comment on the hotel that Mr Molnár has made. On the investor side of the national memorial, and on the general private economy side, it is not a blessing, but a curse. So if anyone in this area, even in the context of the hotel, had real estate speculation or private investors' goals or profit-making goals, then they would have to lobby here in order to prevent national commemoration, because after that, precisely because they are placed in a high status, both because of the heritage protection aspects and the committees that are involved in the definition of developments and development directions, in the period or period prior to the declaration of a national memorial place, these institutions do not play a role unless this law enters into force and the annex to the law is added to the Győr Cabalandom. So I hope that with this brief comment or addition, we will be able to resolve all possible opposition concerns, and thank you again for your support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.20]]
u2020-03-10-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general discussion of the bill on the free distribution of wealth to the Hungarian Catholic Bishops' Conference will follow in order to facilitate educational tasks performed by Pázmány Péter Catholic University until closure. Government referral T/9474. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-162	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Under the Fundamental Law, the state and religious communities operate separately in Hungary [[Gergely Harvester: Or not.]] In order to achieve the so-called Community objectives, I would like to welcome once again Mr Arató. Therefore, the State grants special entitlements to established churches involved in cooperation in view of their participation in their duties to achieve Community objectives. This construction, which I say once again, is also confirmed by international treaties in the Hungarian Fundamental Law, and the uniform practice of the Constitutional Court has pointed in this direction since the change of regime. Therefore, the Government of Hungary looks to the churches as strategic partners in the work on the renewal of our country. The aim of the proposal is to prepare for the distribution of state-owned property necessary for the expansion and development of educational property of Pázmány Péter Catholic University to ecclesiastical property. The university is one of Hungary's top universities, the oldest continuously operating and the largest higher education institution in Hungary since 1635. Several now independent universities developed from the University of Pázmány. Pázmány and its successor institutions have been prominent in Hungarian and international scientific life since its founding. Thanks to the foundation of the 1635 university, Hungary joined the European scientific life again after decades of lag. The university is popular among the students, even in the rankings of HVG, which are not really accused of pro-government. In terms of student numbers, we can talk about 8139 people at the moment. The Pázmány Péter Catholic University performs its current educational activities here on several training sites, we can talk about educational and research units and institutions in Budapest, Piliscsaba and Esztergom. In view of the utilisation of training sites, surveys show that the number of applicants for training in Budapest is increasing, while the number of applicants for training in Piliscsaba is decreasing. Already in 2018, the government decided on the necessary measures to eliminate the fragmentation of Pázmány Péter Catholic University. As a result of the subsequent negotiations, the concept was developed that this university could be solved by moving to Budapest, whose territorial base would be the Szentkirályi utca building of the University. The university promised to grant the Piliscsaba campus state planned by Imre Makovecz, given that the focus of education and research activities will be transferred to Budapest when this bill is adopted. It is planned that the former Hungarian Rádió complex is considered the most suitable for the complete development of the Budapest campus, since the building already in place in Szentkirályi utca is a logical and long-term sustainable solution to support the expansion of the university with this view. Although in recent years there have been various ideas for the exploitation of the former Radio building, I believe that at some point in the debate it will be inevitable that we will also be fighting the related political battles, but I will wait for opposition representatives to put forward arguments in this case, but these exploitation ideas could not be realised for various reasons. To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again that the aim of the bill before us is to reduce the problems of organisation of education caused by fragmentation, to create quality higher education, to increase the quality of education, and to provide a service that meets today's expectations, whether we are thinking of friendly community spaces or library services. I think that this bill is good for Hungarian higher education in general, and that it also increases the international competitiveness of the University of PPK as one of the flagships of Hungarian higher education. In view of the above, I ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Bajkai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-164	Mr President, Dear Parliament, At that time, the government, supported by a significant majority of the Parliament elected in 2010, decided to maintain close contact with the Hungarian churches in order to achieve the Community's objectives ahead and to address social challenges. This is a clear idea, because historical experience is proof that the leadership of the Hungarian state and our Christian churches have always worked together in the spirit of mutual assistance in order to bring our country to economic, spiritual and cultural prosperity and our survival. There is no question that we will survive, that we can live as Hungarians, that we can think as Hungarians, that we can discuss laws in this House, because of Christianity and the Christian churches. In support of the importance of this cooperation, I would like to quote the idea of the excellent statesman of Hungarian history, the deeply believing Protestant, István Clean:, I see much more power in the church, I see a lot more kinship between the church's religious vocation and the state's highest purpose, and I even see the relationship and cooperation between the two more welcome, much more damaging if these two work against each other, rather than being able to approve of the state simply interrupting all ties with the church. I believe that what has been said is sufficiently pointed out as an indispensable institution of nation-building for the work of our churches, which play a role in the life of our state. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of our country, VII. Article 3 (3) of the Act states that the state and religious communities operate separately and that religious communities are independent. Secularisation, on the other hand, does not mean neutrality at all. We can also read in the standard text of the Fundamental Law that the Hungarian state and religious communities can cooperate to achieve Community goals. This is the VII. Article 4 (4) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The Fundamental Law itself offers the possibility and the right for the state to provide financial support for the operation of churches, and, in addition, according to the norm, the State grants special entitlements to established churches involved in cooperation in view of their participation in the tasks of achieving Community objectives. Dear House, The bill before us seeks to remedy the disadvantages of the geographical fragmentation of the training sites of Pázmány Péter Catholic University, which affect the functioning of certain faculty. It should be noted that the university is currently active in education, research and belief in Budapest, Piliscsaba and Esztergom. However, given the outstanding importance of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, it is justified to ensure uniform placement of all the faculty and the necessary infrastructure conditions. The proposal submitted was made in accordance with Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. As defined in Article 8 of the Act of Accession, Budapest VIII. State-owned real estate in its district is the most suitable for the expansion of the university. [[15.30]] Under the relevant sections of the laws on national property and state property, the ownership of state property may be transferred free of charge under the provisions of the law. It is also important to note in the proposal that contracts for the registration of transfers of ownership in the real estate register are prepared and concluded by the owner-right practitioner on behalf of the Hungarian State. The inclusion of this clause in the norm is essential because of compliance with the State Property Act. It is also proposed that it is not negligible to state that the church has no obligation to report the property ordered to the church. In view of the fact that two of the properties to be held free of charge are excluded from the national assets of national importance for the national economy, it is appropriate to provide that the rules of the National Property Act concerning the prohibition of disposal and debiting continue to apply. In view of the size of the transfer of ownership between the State and the University, the relevant legislation on church law cannot be ignored. In this way, it may be necessary to initiate consultation with the Holy See and prepare for an appropriate international agreement with regard to such legal transactions. Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law of Hungary, in its preamble, acknowledges the role of Christianity as a national preserver, which accompanied the thunderstorm centuries of our history as a significant phenomenon. Our basic law, as the basis of our legal order, has made the protection of Christian culture an obligation for every organ in the state. A thousand years ago, our King Saint Stephen established a solid foundation for the state and made our country part of the Christian Europe. The bill on the table of the House also aims to promote the effectiveness of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University in the spirit of our Christian values and state traditions. In my view, this proposal makes a major contribution to ensuring that the higher education institution named after the prestigious theologian, which is one of Hungary's outstanding universities, can carry out its educational, research and faith activities for the benefit of all of us under the necessary conditions. In view of what has been said in the initial statements by its authors, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed legislation. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-166	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The move of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University into a new building complex is a goal that is eligible for us, since I myself, as a former university leader, know very well what it is like to have a university operating in different cities or different parts of the city scattered around its various faculties or institutions. I would argue a little with the introduction, as former leader of ELTE, that the Pázmány would be the oldest and the other, but I would not agree with this philosophical debate that the Jesuit College, founded in 1635, is the worthy heir, because I think that I would like to state that as a believer of both institutions, the Pan-ELTE Movement, but we will not argue with the Secretary of State in this, I think. By the way, I think that, as the secretary of the Hungarian Rectors' Conference, I have a lot of personal experience with the leaders of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, which absolutely supports this plan. The fact that the Radio building would be the ideal place to move in with you right now, I think we'll see it very soon. The fact is that on-site in the Palace district it is a very prominent quarter in the heart of Budapest, where many universities and campuses operate a few hundred meters from each other. This has a serious synergy effect, by the way, in my opinion. And the fact that we support a university with church reservations is natural for Jobbik as a national folk party. There is only one open question for me: what will happen to the Piliscsaba campus, because it is a very fantastic architectural masterpiece, which I will always show to every tourist or private guest in person. As a former university leader, I know very well that this is a very poor building complex, which cannot be properly heated in winter, and cannot be properly cooled in summer. So, if I may say so, it's beautiful, another question is that it's only suitable for what it's built on with certain restrictions, so I put it this way, and then, I think I'm not exaggerating. There are indications from various press reports that it may have been mentioned as a potential location of the National Széchényi Library. So the most important question for me is that, of course, on behalf of Jobbik, I assure you of our support for this bill, Mr State Secretary, is what your plan is with this building complex, because I think this is a building complex that costs a lot of money to maintain, and we have to figure out what to create there. I understand that when this idea developed, it was behind it that there would be a campus-type university, but life, if I may say so, has shown that this is so close to Budapest, it doesn't seem to be working, unfortunately. What I'm saying is, unfortunately, because the idea was the idea when this whole building complex came into being, I think it was an absolutely legitimate idea. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State with respect, in addition to once again ensuring our support for this bill, so that the fate of the Piliscsaba complex can be resolved with satisfaction. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-168	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a former student, I would not agree to the assessment of events in 1635 and to the interpretation of the subsequent period for posterity, but I would suggest to the Member that he not even raise this in his faction, although it is not certain that everyone there will clearly support the position of ELTE that you represent. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: I will separate him! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: ELTE is in the majority of us!]] In the current bill, I have to say that one eye cries, the other name. As a student of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University of Piliscsaba campus, the exchange of campus and buildings with less efficiency in terms of their functionality is obviously one of my eyes here, because that area, on the one hand, not only keeps a lot of memories of my wife, but this is irrelevant here, but what was originally designed for that campus was a good idea. Obviously, with the speeding up of the suburban transport, such a close-up to Budapest cannot be operated effectively or inhabitably, living on such a campus. Anyway, that's why one of my eyes is crying. However, my other eye laughs because the Pázmány Péter Catholic University gets a fitting placement, as well as its rank, reputation and instructors, because if we look at what has already been said before, from 2010 the Hungarian government will consider the churches as strategic partners. I think that the churches' work in providing public tasks and the social work of the churches, whether it be the life of faith, education, education, community building, nurse, caregiver, educator, educating work, should be clear to all of us that this community-creating social work that the churches are doing in Hungary today is an esteemable and powerful work that Hungary needs, what Hungarian society needs, to appreciate the churches for their social-building work. It is therefore welcome that since 2010, there has been a significant increase in the number of institutions in state reserve, whether we are talking about educational, educational, social or child protection institutions, a significant number of them have been transferred to the churches. We also think that they have a good place there, because the spiritual, spiritual, cultural plus that the churches can provide, the recipients, the educators, the schoolchildren, the caregivers, the members of the community can get from the churches. [[15.40]] Single placement in Budapest is a priority in the current bill. This is what I feel is the greatest strength of the bill. I think that single placement in Budapest could further increase the competitiveness of the Pázmány. In addition, in the vicinity of the Palace district, where the Calvinist University of Károli is located, I think that the student life in Pázmány, the cultural, scientific life, together with the University of Károli and the not so far away ELTE blocks, will be the centre of a vibrant cultural, scientific, spiritual life that carries value, which organizes a community, and which, I think, will benefit all Budapesters, residents, students here and perhaps the whole country. So I think that it is also very useful for international events to have a unified accommodation in Budapest, as there have been many problems with organising logistics issues in relation to various international conferences, international training courses and guest instructors in the Piliscsaba campus. The properties listed in the text of the current bill will be owned by the Hungarian Catholic Bishops' Conference, who is the maintainer of the Catholic University of Pázmány. The President of the Hungarian Catholic Bishop's Conference is also the great chancellor of the Pázmány, so I think it will be in good hands, the Catholic Bishop's Conference or the Catholic Church is a good farmer in this respect. Under this bill, the state will hand over the listed properties free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, and free of charge, if the Parliament accepts them, and then the church owns the listed properties. So I think that a very uniform, very effective, high-quality placement of the university will be created. I also think it is important that the state and I think it is a very important state task in the next period to find the necessary and correct, good function in terms of Piliscsaba real estate, Piliscsaba campus and buildings. I think it will be a top priority for the state, the government, in the next period, to use the Campus of Piliscsaba in such a worthy way that it can be used in any way, in any way, any institution, or in such a way that it can be used in such a way that it is worthy of the years spent there. Obviously, KDNP supports this bill, since it is in the interests of unity, competitiveness and the strengthening of Pázmány Péter Catholic University, not only in the church, but also in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-10-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-170	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm an economist myself, and I didn't graduate from ELTE or the Pázmány, so I can't comment on this debate, but I think Econ is the best university in the world, so I can get the lawyers' disapproval. [[Defiance.]] But to translate the word a little more seriously, but just a little bit, we mentioned Christianity a lot, we could also say that the idea that you are raising here is not from the devil, and it is certainly possible to agree with the target system if we want to improve the quality of a Hungarian higher education institution. I think that perhaps a little bit of the comment of my fellow Fidesz Member could be made clear that I was hoping that we would help the Pázmány not only because of Christianity but also because of the students studying there, because the aim would be to support teachers and students; I was talking about my fellow Fidesz Member, not my fellow Member from KDNP. So in Hungarian, the only reason is not only because Christianity is the bastion of Hungary, and so let us help the Catholic University of Pázmány, but because we want high-quality education for students and teachers working there, so that they can provide their work to the highest possible level. In English, we are not opposed to this at all, yet there are two points that we have not yet managed to understand, to say the least. One is what the fate of the Piliscsaba institution will be, because perhaps when this ambitious goal was set to work as a campus there, there may have been people who said that this is a brave idea, that the Hungarian education system is not entirely built up in the way it is in the United States. So you may have heard criticisms about the fact that this may not be the best choice. But if that's the case, and now they're moving this university into a better destination, I think, I'm pretty sure there's a question of what to do with the facility that's there. So this is not entirely clear to me, and if I understood Mr. Secretary's words correctly, it is not yet an accurate or a hundred percent idea of what would be there. The other thing is that they are not moving this university into a university building, we do not even see in Hungarian how suitable the new building is for the university to actually have educational activities there. In English, these two marginal conditions are that we do not know what will happen to where you move from, and we do not know how you will be able to use the one where you move the university, we believe these are two uncertainties in this bill, or at least as a result of it. That is why we say that while the idea is not from the devil, the right objective is to improve the quality and infrastructure of Hungarian higher education institutions and thus to help teachers and students work, it is worth seeing how much it costs and how it can be achieved in today's Hungarian reality. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party will abstain, at least as it stands at present, in this bill, because it understands the purpose, believes it is right, there are uncertainties in the solution. That is all I wanted to offer to the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-10-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-172	Mr President, Dear House, There was a particular charm when Mr Secretary of State started this debate by saying the constitutionalization of the separation of the state and church. Because if this proposal isn't about something, it's not about separation between the state and the church. The point of this proposal is quite the opposite: the further construction of the ecclesiastical state in public money. But let me not start with that, but let me just start by saying that what is happening here is an obvious, irresponsible and confusing waste of state property. What's happening? Because there are a number of state buildings of considerable value that the state is now giving to someone who is not the state, or the Catholic Church, if any, but you might as well give it to anyone else you think you are. So there's a very significant state asset that you're handing over to someone else, and we don't even know what it's worth, because no valuation has been made. So we don't know if it's worth 20 million forints or 20 billion forints, I just said two extremes. I'll add, as I know these real estate values, it's much closer to the second number than the first one. So there is a very significant fortune that you will take out of the care of the state with a simple law, and you will give it to an organization, where appropriate, the Hungarian Catholic Church, which is kind to your heart, for a number of reasons that I would not push here now, and then a little later. So, I have to tell you that what's going on here is nothing more than a very subtle way of saying irresponsible management of public wealth. I can be more serious than that, but there will be legal consequences. We are investigating the legal effect of this kind of exchange... here there is essentially an exchange, although the bill denies this, but this is essentially an exchange, where the Piliscsaba real estate is given to the state, and in return it gives valuable downtown real estates, so we're looking at the fact that there is a crime here. We don't think that's out of the question, either. I have to tell you. A very significant state asset is converted into private property by an unprepared, unsubstantiated decision. It is not Parliament's responsibility here, obviously, because Parliament is voting, but for those who propose such a proposal, Mr Secretary of State, which is suitable for a very significant loss of assets. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: He's making bigger and bigger nonsense!]] It's a very significant loss of assets to the state. [[15.50]] Secondly, let us consider what you refer to as the University of Pézmány's need for this wealth. That is certainly true, certainly all higher education institutions would be happy to receive billions of real estate assets. But are you sure it's the University of Pézmány that needs this fortune the most? The state has examined its own institutions, since we mentioned ELTE? Have you, by the way, examined the other higher education institutions in Budapest? Or he looked at the rural institutions and found that, by the way, all the institutions in state higher education are perfect, everything is fine there, and we have only one task to provide the ecclesiastical institutions operating outside the state with state money. That's not what I'm experiencing. If the state wanted to help higher education, they could start with their own institutions. Because you know, Mr. Secretary of State, you know, congressmen, students who have the nerve to go to state institutions who don't go to your state school, National University of Public Service and not to church higher education institutions. It is only your education policy to destroy public education, and for those who are considered worthy of it, to allow only church education, only to be held up with abundant money. They take the money from students in public school and give it to students in church schools. In essence, the same thing is happening here. Let me make one or two more professional remarks beyond that, as well as that of higher education. One of these concerns, and Piliscsaba has been affected by several of us, but let me tell you in person that I regret that in the case of the Piliscsaba campus, no other better solution has been found. I think it was also a promising initiative from the point of view of higher education that they also tried to introduce higher education institutions as independent campuses in Hungary, and I say very quietly that I know that the reference fund has described this on several occasions, that this debate has been going on for years, that the Pázmány is in the right place in Piliscsaba, or that it must be moved away. It is often argued that students do not go to Piliscsaba because they have to move out of Budapest. To be honest, I would have preferred to have proved that Piliscsaba can be a well-functioning university, but it's a real dilemma. I admit that this is an existing academic dilemma. I was very fond of the insistence that the university management wanted to keep this higher education institution in Piliscsaba. Similarly, my heartache: if I understand this clearly from the presentation, or I could not find it, if I understand it correctly, is the intention of the teacher to move away from Esztergom, where another important tradition was broken in Esztergom, let us remember that, and I am not sure that this is good for Esztergom. But if that's what I meant wrong, then correct me. In Esztergom's life, it was an important institution, whether it was a church or a local government or an apology, a state institution. It would be worth it or should have been kept there. If you've invited us to the dance, I'd just like to ask what happened to the new national museum concept. In 2006, the government was very happy to announce that these buildings would be used for cultural purposes, museum buildings and other cultural purposes. [[For signal:]] In 2016, I'm sorry, thank you, Congressman. In 2016. What's happened since then? If these buildings are available here, then why do you have to cut down trees in City Park and destroy City Park for the purpose of a museum district? Why couldn't you create the museum district here in an area that is more suitable in many ways than the City Park, for this purpose? And I am terrified to hear what Congressman Brenner Koloman said about the Széchényi Library moving to Piliscsaba. I ask the Secretary of State to deny that. It is an amazing idea that the Széchényi Library will be moved from its central location, because it needs the space for itself, because the government is more important than culture, and then it will be posted to Piliscsaba, because the buildings that my fellow Members have said were not suitable for students, so those books and the audience reading the book will be perfect. If that's not the case, I'll calm down. At the same time, and I said that I was also looking for private interests, I found that you do not have such a large-shaped transformation where there is some private interest [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] does not appear in the background. Therefore, I would be very interested in what the congressman asked me about what would happen to this property. It's not gonna happen to her that after the state gives her very expensive buildings, or someone gets these properties very cheaply, not next week, but a few years from now, and with some cool investment some close entrepreneur brother-in-law, son-in-law, relatives will build there, say, a leisure center, a big hotel, I don't know what to put there. I'm sure you can imagine a lot of good things. As I see the NER entrepreneurs, the Balaton is already full, then they'll look for new locations to invest in. I also recommend to you [[Interjection: Sukoro!]] I almost said something nasty about it, so let's just say that we look forward to it, and we will be watching who will be the winner of this real estate exchange at the end, because it is not the Hungarian students in the state institution and not the higher education, that is for sure. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-10-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm trying not to repeat myself, and I'm not going into the state church secularization debate here. I'd like to start by talking about it from an educational point of view. The bill raises two main reasons for the real estate change or for moving the university. One is that the Pázmány educational institution is currently fragmented, and that the buildings in Piliscsaba are less suitable for university purposes. In connection with fragmentation, I also ask the Secretary of State what will happen to the Esztergom Faculty, whether it will also move in, because if it does not, there will actually be an educational institution in Esztergom, then fragmentation will not be solved. The buildings in Piliscsaba are not suitable for university education, although I do not know how much more suitable the properties offered in the Hungarian Radio building are than the Makovecz buildings. By the way, I'd argue with people who say these buildings are less suitable here. Obviously not hypermodern, new university buildings, but in winter there was proper heating, obviously with a larger heating bill, and in summer, this is located in a valley otherwise cooler than otherwise. So I have my doubts about that. But my biggest problem from an educational point of view is that, yes, it was the first or perhaps the only university that really had a campus character, so it was isolated enough for university students visiting Budapest to live a social life. If there was a break between two performances, a few hours, then they did not go home or go back to Budapest, but stayed out there for a community life. Several students also moved out to Piliscsaba in Budapest, and there, in Piliscsaba, there was a really good university community life. Obviously, after 2013, when they took out several major majors, this relapsed, but when I went there, it was a very live community life, and I think that was a good example. So I am saddened to hear that this will not succeed and will be eliminated. But what's our objective problem with that is because obviously these were subjective insights, that's the economic question, questions. I'd like to know what's going to happen with the university buildings in Piliscsaba, what's going to happen at the university. Did you discuss this with Piliscsaba entrepreneurs, the local government in Piliscsaba, about how it will work? Here, entrepreneurs in Piliscsaba were happy about this university. There were a lot of services here that took advantage of the fact that he became a university here. What about them? Will there be any compensation? I'll talk to Piliscsabai and hear rumors. Some people have heard that they want to install a casino there. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Then Sucoro fits!]] Let's hope it's just a rumor, and it's not true. So we're very curious about what's going to happen to the buildings. And what's important is that VIII. the extent to which the properties offered are suitable for a higher education institution in connection with the university installed in the district. The cost here is not only how much the property itself costs to trade, but also the cost of converting these properties. [[16.00]] And with the local government, now the VIII. in the case of a district, has there been a discussion on how the university can work? What possible community functions can the university perform there? So until we have a reassuring answer to these questions, I do not think that we will be able to support this proposal, but we are not shutting down. I understand the rationality of it, and I'm not happy about Piliscsaba's termination of campus and university, obviously there are rational reasons for that, which are acceptable, but the existing real estate and the VIII. There are questions about district operations that we'd like answers to. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It would be possible to make two-minute speeches now, but before it takes place, because State Secretary Balázs Orbán has asked for the floor, and the representative of the government always takes priority, obviously, under the rules of the house, it is Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary.
u2020-03-10-176	Thank you very much, and I apologize to the Congressional ladies and gentlemen, and I did not want to take on a position of priority. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We vote...]] But I thought that perhaps the debate and the conversation, the emerging discourse, would lead me forward if I didn't respond to what was said now and at the end. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] First of all, what Congressman Brenner said, I just wanted to be polite. My lucky position is that I also have a degree in ELTE and papology, so I can accept both interpretations about the succession of the University of Nagysombat. If there will be a similar bill for ELTE and I will be the government rapporteur for it, then I will also say that it is the successor of the University of 1635 and then God will decide whether it was right or wrong. Some things about the transformation of higher education. So the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has talked a lot about the competitiveness problems of Hungarian higher education and the measures, plans and strategies that can be formulated against them in the last year and a half. Minister Palkovics also led the reconstruction of the structure of the Corvinus University's maintenance structure. I know, and I don't want to open this debate, there was a politically sensitive debate on this issue, but it is the case that the constraints that are in the current funding and university higher education management system have become the reason for the conversion of the Corvinus model, and this is why the government hopes that, through this conversion of the model of maintenance and a large amount of capital and a large increase in funding, Corvinus University can move forward in the competitiveness rankings. And the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has also talked a lot about it, and the government is also considering decisions that it would like to do these model changes with different constructions, but with similar logic in other universities, even before the cycle is closed. I just wanted to make this clear by referring to or referring to the fact that it is not at all that there is a church higher education institution that has a high priority, but that everything that is happening here is one of the elements of the strategy to increase the renewal and competitiveness of Hungarian higher education. The other thing that's said is what happens to the Piliscsaba complex or campus. I, too, think I would share the basically bittersweet attitude of the pro-government and opposition representatives on this issue, because we all feel that we would have been happy if this construction had been successful, but it was the leadership of the university itself, which has now been increasing in intensity and extremely polite for many years, but with an increasing voice asked that the state be partnered in some other solution because of the unsustainable nature of the construction. It follows that, although the government already made the decision to resolve this issue in 2018, we have now reached the point, so it took two years alone to prepare the agreement and to consider the construction of where these educational institutions would go if not for Piliscsaba. Moreover, it is not yet time to offer the Piliscsaba institution and the Piliscsaba complex for the benefit of the State and to take over the state, but only after the adoption of the bill, so I would like to ask you for a moment's patience in the future. Moreover, it is quite clear that each of these ideas is essentially intended to be used for educational, cultural or research purposes. This will be the result of a later decision, and it is not expected to be concrete in a day or two. First, we have to go through this transfer from state property to church property. And since Congressman Arato has brought it up, I would like to make some conflicting comments, if I may. This is the whole situation that came up in connection with the TV headquarters, for example, so that we have an empty building complex in the Palace district, which is due to one of the darkest real estate transactions of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, the sale of the public television building in PPP construction. They practically sold the property at Liberty Square, and then they rented it back for years. Consequently, the foreign investor had access to that property practically free of charge, and when the right-wing government came to power in 2010, he was faced with a complete situation. The building of the Radio and the surrounding buildings were left to crumble, only the technological conditions of the XXI. They did not meet the requirements of the century. It was a partial renovation, and it inherited a construction as a result of the PPP system or structure in Szabadság tér, which had spent many years on public television and MTVA's budget. That's why it was a rational decision to put public television and public radio in one place, on an external base. As a result, these buildings have been liberated, which, in their present form, are undoubtedly not suitable for an educational institution, but I believe that this is not a problem. In itself, the university maintainer, the Catholic Church, thinks that this is not a problem. They say that they have the right resources, the right infrastructure development plans at their disposal, and as soon as these properties become ecclesiastical property, the developments in this area can start immediately. So I think, and we can also ask for a guarantee, and we also have a guarantee that there is room for students and educators to have XXI. 20th century conditions will be available when this educational activity starts. And I also owe it to you to refer to you about the situation of teacher training in Esztergom. At the moment, there is no decision in this context, at least I don't know about this type of decision. Undoubtedly, the question arises as to whether it is justified to maintain the training place in Esztergom in this case. I think it would be an exaggeration to say that there is division, but there are different ideas. As a whole, we are obviously pleased that higher education activities are carried out in places outside Budapest, but this is essentially the responsibility of the maintainer, which in this case is the Catholic Church. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-03-10-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. [[16.10]]
u2020-03-10-178	Thank you very much. Mr President, Gergely Arató, the Fist of the Gyurcsány Party, arrived in the middle of a debate with intelligent questions and suggestions to give his speech. The Constitution, our Fundamental Law, states that the state and religious communities operate separately. Religious communities are independent. The State and religious communities can work together to achieve Community goals. This is the cooperation that we are now seeing in this bill, and the fact that you, as MSZP State Secretary and DK representative, are talking about squandering state wealth is, to say the least, cynical on your part, since in 2010, the state's wealth was HUF 11 650 billion, which is HUF 17 743 billion by 2020. [[Gergely Harvesto: Say the fortune in Euro!]] You have squandered 2300 billion forints of state wealth, privatized. The problem is that at the peak of their robbery privatisation in 2006, 9.6 There was a budget deficit, so revenues were not spent on Hungarian people, but 15-20 people were enriched out of 99 percent of the 2300 billion. Budapest Airport, PPP constructions, TV headquarters, cushion gas transactions, MOL, Postabank, MÁV Cargo, Antenna Hungária and 190 state companies were privatized during your time. That's when the state fortune was squandered, then it was carried out, and then it became private property of the state. As to the question of Kocsis-Cake Olivio: in the case of a casino, please contact Ferenc Gyurcsány, he is the one who is very expert in this case, so find this with him. He might want to be government commissioner on a case like this, to build a casino. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] This won't happen in our Fidesz-KDNP government. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-180	For my fellow Member, the debate was sensible as long as everyone agreed with it. I understand the possibility of debate in a broader way, and, if I may, I will continue to disagree, especially because, if I understand correctly, there is an agreement. He said it took two years to come up with an agreement with the Catholic Church. This is not an agreement, honourable Member, it is a transfer of wealth, it is a unilateral act. Anyway, there's no other arrangement. I thought they had done their homework, but we can't see it, but they didn't do it then, if I understand correctly, what you're saying, Secretary of State. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Bad!]] What I would particularly like to highlight is two more points. On the one hand, I would like to point out that the Secretary of State did not give a direct answer to this, but for the sake of the record, I will fix what will happen to the real estate in Piliscsaba. That means they've prepared this kind of exchange in two years. He says he'll serve educational and cultural goals, but we don't know yet. Either one of them is true, or only one of them can be true, but I'm afraid that none of them is true, because they know very well what they want to do with it, and I'm afraid it's not an educational-cultural use. But we'll see about that. I am excited to ask you, I think you didn't answer that question about what happened to the new national museum project; it sounded so good back then. As far as MTVA is concerned, we must have put a lot of pressure on MTVA, as you claim, but we do not see that MTVA has been cheaper since this PPP scheme ran out. Then where did that money go? Now, what's MTVA supposed to spend on PPP money? Finally, Congressman Nacsa refers to privatisation. When the Secretary of State himself praised here a sentence ago the model of privatization of state higher education, since that is what the Corvinus model is about, I must say, to put it mildly. Finally, I would like to say to you that this is your model of higher education: the ecclesiastical institutions are state property and the state institutions are privatised.
u2020-03-10-181	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Bajkai, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-182	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although I did not intend to comment originally, some of the sentences that I think should not be left without comment or without comment were said in this House. Part of the Secretary of State has responded to the operation of the Mafia methods in Gyurcsány. When it comes to law, a Faculty of Pázmány Péter University, I have to say that everything that happened during the Gyurcsány era will give examples to generations of legal generations, how to not govern, how not to engage in legal transactions, and how not to destroy a country using legal instruments. Several generations of candidates and candidates for lawyers will study this, as I think it should be, or should be, in part, today. The second, also in part, was already given a picture of Lőrinc Nacsa's reply: I think we should reject it. Here Gergely Arató said that if it is an agreement and a transfer of wealth, it is not actually an agreement. I would just like to tell you from a legal point of view that free transfer of property is also a legal transaction, it is also an agreement, it must also be developed and has a number of conditions. But once again, this is a legal issue, which you may not have reviewed or even understood. But what comes out of the comments is that when we pronounce the word Christianity, and we pronounce the word that we are a Christian-based society, or that the nation of Europe has built on a Christian basis for thousands of years, you have a chill on your hands. Now, when it is possible to support a major university, which, once again, if we take it very strictly as a former university grant, be it the ELTE, University of Pécs, University of Semmelweis, which also received support as a state university, we will now help a prominent institution in another form with support, and we will strongly support it, so to speak, as an exclamation mark for you. I think that goes with your nature. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-183	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-184	Thank you for the floor. I thank Mr Secretary of State for his reaction to the debate, because it is usually only in the end that he says the monologue. Here I have the opportunity to react a little bit and ask back. Mr. Secretary of State said that this has been going on for a long time and that this has been prepared since 18:00. In this case, the question is even more pressing, that if you have been thinking about it for a long time, there should be some concept of what will be in Piliscsaba, so what will be at the University of Piliscsaba. I didn't get an answer to what happened to the local government, the local entrepreneurs. There's a major infrastructure around the university. By the way, I have to add that I think there was a decision there in 2010, in 2013, I don't know whose decision it was, and I understand that it was Professor Maróth who insisted that such a campus be built there, and then there was a decision when the majors were disorganized. So I think it could have been a successful project, but not everyone wanted it. Anyway, it's all in the past. I'd just like to respond to Congressman Nacsa that he's okay, and then ask the socialists about the casino. All I ask is that you, if possible, do not let Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz come close, because when it comes to a beautiful environment, it is a beautiful landscape, usually with their real estate investments there is not much wood and not much nature. So let's hope they're not the ones who will get this property there. Thank you very much. And if I can still get answers to my questions, the faction may change its position on its support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-10-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, an independent representative. He asked for a word in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2020-03-10-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As an ELTE instructor, it is very tempting to join the 1635 debate, but I will let you do that now, because it really doesn't matter in this debate. I'd like to ask you a few more questions, which I'd like you to answer. On the one hand, the, what will become of the Piliscsaba campus, answered the question, and it turned out that it had not yet been decided. I'd like to ask you back here: did you calculate, say, how much this will cost every month? I, when I vote on a proposal like this, always wonder how much it will cost. How much will it cost to guard it every month? I'm guessing it's been calculated. Or on an annual basis? Obviously, until there's nothing there, it's got to be guarded, it's gonna cost money, it's got to be maintained, because if there's no protection there, it's gonna be in a condition within two years that's obviously gonna require a complete renovation. [[16.20]] In parentheses, I have also heard the rumour of OSZK from some places, which in a sense seemed logical from the point of view that I went to the National Asset Manager and saw the plans of the logistics centre or warehouse of the OSZK, which was planned not so far from there, near Avicenna, practically; but I am glad that in this sense it did not occur to the NSZK cakomakk to move there. I'm sure it wouldn't be an ideal solution. What I would like to expect a concrete answer, and also a HUF-based answer, is that obviously, if we vote on such a proposal, we should know the value of the real estate that comes to the state now, the Piliscsaba campus, and the value of the property that will now be invested in PPK's property and its maintenance property. I'm interested, just so I can see that once I vote on such a proposal, how much forints will the state take back and how much will it give. I am not interested in this from the point of view of what my fellow Member Arató said here, I simply want to see the specific figures. I would also like you to say something about who will finance the renovation of these newly transferred buildings. He said they've been negotiating for a long time, so I'm guessing this came up. So it came to mind that, after the state transfers this property into PPK's use and ownership, the government will add a unique decision to the renovation money, because it is obviously not suitable for educational activity in this form, it is assumed that the buildings must be restructured from the inside, and in any case it must be put in a state that corresponds to a university of the same quality as the Pázmány Péter Catholic University. I'd like to ask you one more question, of course, for a long time I've heard of the ongoing consultation, but I've only heard of such background discussions, of course, about the fate of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, and I didn't know that you were negotiating for two years, as you just said. The reason I don't understand this is because the Rector's Office of Pázmány Péter Catholic University wrote a letter in June 2019 stating that the university doesn't have a plan to get rid of the Campus of Piliscsaba. It then describes in detail that it is on three sites and will continue to be an educational activity in the future. That was six months ago, six months ago, three quarters of a year ago. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Ask them!]] Then someone's not telling the truth. It just occurred to me that either the rector's office isn't telling the truth, or you are. To tell you the truth, I don't understand this kind of communication, why you can't talk about it openly to everyone. If you were negotiating... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán's intervention:]] I believe you're telling the truth, but just talk about it then, please, Mr. Secretary, so you can speak with one voice, because I think you're taking this kind of conversation a little sidetracked. To sum up, my specific questions would be exactly how much forints will cost to guard and maintain these buildings until they stand empty, either for a month or a year. Forint's wealth is the value of the property that comes to the state and avoids the state, and what they agreed in advance to finance the renovation of these new properties to PPK. I would just like to make a parentheses comment, since Congressman Bajkai has already said that, for example, I never have a problem with it when I hear that something is Christian, and then I have a red light in my head, especially in higher education, there is absolutely no prejudice in me, let me say, from my point of view, simply that one would like to make a rational decision. On the other hand, and this is more important, perhaps we are talking about an institution in the case of PPK as well as, in the case of the conversion of Corvinus, we adopted a bill that from then on Corvinus was no longer a state-owned university, but had become a quasi-strange private university, and PPK was not a state university. From this point on, logically, when such a transfer of wealth takes place, we simply want to see clearly what it is. In parentheses, so inside the closing point, I might add that in such a case, I have always asked the question of what we expect in return. In the case of Corvinus, too, I said that I would expect the government to give over hundreds of billions of forints of assets to management there, and we also transferred shares to property a lot of real estate, so let's ask for something in return, by signing a scholarship to an Eks student every year so that they can study free of charge. They didn't put it in there either, and it's just a little dissonant for me now that we're giving you a big real estate fortune, it's okay if I get the answers to my questions, I'm willing to vote for it, but in return, I'd also ask you to include in a contract what we expect in return, for example, how many students are taught from their own sources, their own scholarship, or something. After all, we are talking about a large fortune, and we are not talking about institutions with state reservations. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-03-10-187	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches again. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]]
u2020-03-10-188	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would just like to make a very short comment. I should have said before, that when you get to the mill and the past eight years, it always shows that you are running out of arguments for your own governance. Let's face it, you've been on the government for 10 years, and you take responsibility for what you've done and don't point back at me. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2020-03-10-189	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, for a two-minute speech. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Madam Congresswoman, I would ask you to wait patiently for the Member's speech. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're already doing it on purpose.]] I'd like the clock back on, please. [[It's happening.]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There will certainly be a congresswoman today. I would like to tell Mr Gergely Arató that we have streamlined the maintenance and funding structure, created the chancellor system, increased social scholarships by 40 percent, increased the number of state scholarships that could be admitted to doctoral education from 1300 to 2000; from this year the amount of student norm increased by 30 percent to 166 thousand forints, the budget for higher education grants increased by 40 percent over two years, and the government spends HUF 606 billion more on education in 2019 compared to the 2010 budget. These are the results you've missed. We still maintain our claim that you have squandered the sum of 2300 billion forints, an amazing amount of state wealth, made it private property, and this is not a reverse display. It's not pointing backwards because you have a political responsibility, as you were a secretary of state for education in PPP constructions. Even last year, there was a Hungarian budget spending, billions of forints, which you said could have been spent for any purpose, otherwise, if you hadn't concluded those harmful contracts, and you didn't wrestle them out like that. About Hungary, the state wealth for both foreign companies and their buddies, is being moaned by the Hungarian budget in 2019 and even in 2020. It's not pointing back, it's justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, Fidesz Group, for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-10-192	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I couldn't stand not talking to him after Mr Arato's last comment. [[16.30]] I would not repeat what Congressman Nacsa said because he said how much the Fidesz-KDNP government has done for education, higher education, how much we are spending now, what measures they were. I understand if Mr Arató does not like to hear about the problems between 2002 and 2010. I also understand that you don't care. One of his former fellow Members said that one of his cases had expired. If that's the attitude, I'm sure it'll be okay. However, I am convinced that what you have done, even as secretary of state for education, with higher education and the Hungarian education system, has always reduced the quality of education and has indebted higher education. Just as Congressman Nacsa mentioned the PPP schemes earlier, if we only looked at the only building at Corvinus University, what you were doing there, it would have been a certain type of theft if we had been able to examine this a little bit more, because actually it was a private investor who built the Corvinus' new campus that became the building, despite the fact that the university had paid more than a billion forints a year. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] It's called stealing, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-03-10-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-03-10-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I thank you very much for the supporting and critical comments made in the debate, but what I am trying to do is to decode from what has been said here and from an hour we have spent together that you will be able to accept this bill with support beyond multi-party and pro-government sides. And if that's the case, thank you very much. I think, by the way, that Pázmány Péter Catholic University, the issue of Hungarian higher education, would be particularly good if this could happen. In the context of the questions raised by the Members, it is worth clarifying the basic role. So the Hungarian government has a role in this whole construction and in the transformation of higher education, the Hungarian Parliament has a role and the Hungarian Catholic Church has a role as the maintainer of the higher education institution. And then there's still a role to be played by the MSZP-SZDSZ government, and a lot of other people have a role to play. But these three actors are separate, and the fact that they can achieve the goals they consider desirable in this asset transfer and in this higher education transformation project requires them to carry out different negotiations and cooperation. So, for example, it has not been said here, but it is also mentioned in the bill that it is necessary to consult the Holy See in this regard and, where appropriate, to conclude an agreement there. I would only have indicated this to the Members of Parliament to understand that it is born in vain, say, in 2018, a government intention to declare this construction fundamentally and in principle eligible by the Hungarian Government, and then to put time, resources and energy into it so that this construction can come in this form, as you see it now. And by the way, the fact that this is a swap, as you have referred to it, cannot even include it in the bill itself, because I now say in civil law terms a private actor will grant the State a grant. Obviously, Parliament cannot confirm this by law, because it must be their sovereign decision, otherwise the Hungarian Parliament would adopt an unconstitutional law. So I would just like to draw attention to the fact that all the situations that have come up now are the result of multi-stakeholder negotiations. And that is, once again, what will happen to the training centre in Piliscsaba, and then after taking over the state ownership, in the clear knowledge of the maintenance costs, then a decision can be made. I advance that in an institution of this type, there should be some kind of public purpose, some kind of educational, cultural, artistic, scientific activity, and all the other important issues that Mr.Operator has mentioned will have to play for the local economy, what role this change of function will have for local voters, what does the settlement say, not only that settlement, but also the body of representatives, the leadership of the settlements in the area, these are the issues that need to be examined after the acquisition of state ownership, and a sound decision will have to be taken at the end. I'd like to respond to one last suggestion. And I am not going to say anything concrete because the government intends to take decisions on this at a later stage, but I would like to predict that the government is planning to increase funding in relation to all higher education institutions. It will therefore be possible to increase funding for most higher education institutions in the coming years. With the related government decisions, you will meet either in front of Parliament or in the Hungarian Gazette or in government communication. So I would like to ask you that there is no point in creating conspiracy theories in this matter. Yes, it is possible that the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, as one of the other flagship educational institutions, may receive additional budgetary resources over the next period, just as other state and church higher education institutions will be expected to receive such additional benefits depending on the performance of the Hungarian economy. We are pleased that we have finally come to a situation where it can not only be true what Congressman Nacsa mentioned, that there is more than HUF 606 billion in the budget for education than in 2010, but we hope that we can continue to expand these amounts before the end of the term. So I would like to ask you, in general terms, if you will allow me to do so, with your support. Thank you again for what has been said in this debate. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-10-195	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Ms Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, spoke with her address in memory of the first representative of women's rights. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-10-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This day is not only wonderful because our fellow Member Márta Demeter's child was born. But also because on this day Éva Takács was born 241 years ago, she is the first female publicist of law, who may not have heard her name on 10 March 1779. When we talk about women's rights and feminism, we think of the 1800s more strongly, the second half of it, but indeed there was a wonderful creation, Éva Takács, who was the XVIII. He was born in the first century. His father was a noble Reformed minister, Adam Takács, and his mother was Lady Éva Bessenyey. Two of the grandparents in the family were Reformed clergymen, so they were surrounded by an extremely wide range of scientific and educational environments. But her parents passed away when she was 17. So, after he was the largest child in the family, he had to work to support and teach his brothers. This gave him a life experience that inevitably brought about the fact that he was the first truly great advocate of the progress of women's rights, women's life and women's intellect in our country. When he had to take up a job at 17, he taught me how to embroider ladies, baked bread, 20-30 pcs a day, felt what a two - hand job was after raising a gentleman's family. In 1802, he married Ferenc Karacs, a copper incisor. They had a house in Pest, in which there was a so-called Karacs Tusculanum, a gentlemanly intellectual salon that became a meeting place for contemporary intellectuals and artists. [[16.40]] They had six children. Károly Kisfaludy, Róza Laborfalvi, András Fáy, Benedek Virág, and even József Katona lived with them for some time. His friends encouraged Éva Takács not only to express his criticisms and comments about social problems in words, but also to put his thoughts on paper. His first request was when one of his friends encouraged him to write a review of a play by a certain Gábor Sebestyén. Well, this request should not have been made, because from this point on, Éva Takács wrote a very vitriolous and clear criticism of this play, calling it a waltz, because in the work the author made women look stupid and immoral, and in an extraordinary way rejected Éva Takács to even talk about women in this manner. There was such an echo of this criticism that it generated five whole years of debate on the columns of different newspapers. She was the first Hungarian woman to publicly proclaim the intellectual equivalence of women and men. In 1822, it appeared about the domestic education of the maidens, in 1823 The married women about their duties, in 1824 the Friendly talk about the state of the land-making people, and in 1825 and 1826 the two scientific publications of my two letters to a friend for the sake of our sex were published in the first issue of the Scientific Collection. In 1828 the Works of the Answers appeared from the Mount of St. Gellért, in 1829 the Thoughts were published under the sun and the original narratives, and in 1935 all his works were published in the series of Hungarian literary rarities in the care of the University Printing House. According to Éva Takács, regular mixed education must be carried out, because then girls get used to the idea of the twist of fate, and they can gain a wide range of social experience in this circle. He urged the students not only to learn the chores of the housewife, but also to learn all the skills that they might be able to earn bread later. He also inherited a great child besides his works, Teresa Karacs, who first founded Miskolc's daughter-rearing institute in 1846, in which the first education of women of citizenship could take place in Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-10-197	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. I give you the floor.
u2020-03-10-198	Mr President, Dear House, On the 100th anniversary of Trianon's disgrace, on the occasion of the Szekler Day of Freedom, it should be noted that perhaps thirty years ago, at the time of the method change, we all expected a little more in terms of indigenous Hungarian minorities and at all Hungarian autonomy efforts, and, unfortunately, the last thirty years of this look and of this approach, if it has not proved to be wasted, it is full of self-absorbed and missed opportunities. And we also see that, although we have a very combative government for 10 years now, rhetorically, it is not as tough on this issue as, say, migration. I myself do not recall the occasion when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán left Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's mouth to express autonomy in relation to Hungarian minorities in any field of war in Brussels or Strasbourg. We also see that, while June 4th in our eyes is certainly not a day of celebration, but a massive, very brutal day of mourning, we obviously have to think about our solidarity with regard to Szekler's day of freedom, that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, and we must draw attention once again not only to the fact that, on the basis of the Szekler National Council's resolution of 6 January 2012, we celebrate the day of freedom every year, but also to the fact that, in the case of indigenous national minorities, there is still a signature collection campaign that can be supported by all well-spoken and democratic Hungarian forces, I also expect you to support me, because every tiny step that may seem unhesitable in terms of the Hungarianness of the future and its survival. I have also said many times in this House that in the long term, I believe that the dominance of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin can only be imagined and founded in cradles, so in any case, it should be subject to the support system, not only to economic and efficiency aspects, but to the principle of Hungarian survival, which is absolutely clear and symbolizing belongings, that everyone should be able to thrive in their homeland. Obviously, our goal cannot be to speed up emigration from separated parts, or to allow our brothers living there to migrate to Western Europe in a mass, but the only objective, obviously, is to gain the positions that allow Hungarian survival in the Carpathian Basin by setting up an independent Ministry of National Policy. And to quote one more element about our 2018 programme: the operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, its transparency, even with the increase in the amount of aid transferred here, is possible. For many years we have said here in Parliament that, as compensation for British farmers before Brexit, the British reimbursement paid by the Hungarian budget was higher in some years than the total budget of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which became a symbol of self-destruction in the Carpathian Basin. This budget line is therefore a symbol of self-destruction, because the Bethlen Gábor Fund should be classified with higher amounts than the form of reimbursement mentioned in any year. And we also have to say that some of the demographers have recently come from the direction of signals that, indeed, the population loss in Romania has reached record sizes, but fortunately, the population loss of Hungarians living there has been somewhat reduced, but I would warn against it, since Romania has had the greatest loss of population among the countries of the European Union in the last decade: according to one of the statistics, 17 percent of its citizens have gone abroad and, at world level, is second in terms of the dynamics of this migration rate following Syria; this is clearly not the pattern for Hungarians. And we also see that although we find counties and periods when fortunately the weight loss of Hungarians has slowed down, according to the data available for almost a whole year in 2018, the number of live births in this region was half a percent lower, fortunately the number of deaths has moved by 4 percent compared to the previous data, but we cannot say that the picture would be positive overall. We can say that the rate of weight loss has not slowed down substantially in recent years, decades. Obviously, a support system that supports prosperity in the homeland could be the basis for everything, and it does so in a transparent way, not just on government good relations, but on all Hungarian children across the Carpathian Basin, allowing them to meet the right amount of support. And I would also like to say on this matter that in Hungary we have found four years since 2010, I am talking about the truncated country, where the number of live births is below 90,000, and all four are after 2010. It is not possible to hold the current government responsible for this, but it is necessary to face lifelong dissection in order to develop a common national minimum, because this is the basis for Hungarian survival in the Carpathian Basin. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-10-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed.
