u2020-10-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th session of the Parliament's autumn session is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Victor Vinnai and notary Bence Tordai will be of assistance to me. Welcome to all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, He applied for a pre-meeting speech about our current affairs! The title is Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2020-10-26-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Fidesz has no answer to the real problems, and on important issues, the majority of people are behind opposition parties. And it's not just an opinion, it's the factual, numerical results of a recent research. Last week, the research of Policy Solutions and Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, Green Left Policy in Hungary, was published, and we can learn from this [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] that there is no substantial social support behind the Fidesz government's policy. On the most important issues, the government does not perform well or goes against the will of the electorate. So the Fidesz voters who still exist are victims of a scam. The popular brainwashing propaganda machine tries to make them believe that the ship of Hungary is nodding in an,,,,,,,,,, soros-gender,, Bermuda triangle, and it is only Captain Orbán who can lead the country's ship out of these dangerous waters. [[István Szilárd Németh: Now you're telling the truth!]] Distraction is still successful for many, but if people are asked what they think are the most important issues in Hungary today, then the following list of six is drawn up: the quality of health care is low, salaries are low, the cost of living is too high, the social differences between the rich and the poor are too big, pensions are low and the level of corruption is huge. So, in the opinion of the people, these are the six most important problems in Hungary today. Let us see, one by one, what answers the Fidesz government gives, and what answers the opposition gives. With the low level of health care 49 percent agree, half of the people are among the most important three problems, as we see the emigration of health workers, empty practices, overloaded doctors and professionals, and the fact that the third worst numbers in Hungary in recent weeks have been caused by the epidemic, not regardless of the fact that we have a loser health minister, who is replaced by the Minister of the Interior. The solution is that money should be spent not on football, but on health care, instead of a stadium, instead of building a hospital, instead of raising soccer wages, we need a health worker's salary increase. The next most important problem, according to people, 44 percent say that the top 3 is that people's salaries are low. The figures also show that not only do we not catch up with the old Member States of the Union, but we are also breaking down from the Visegrád countries, there is already a higher minimum wage in Romania than in Hungary. A number of solutions are offered by the opposition, which can be well coordinated, such as the basic income of employees, such as the minimum wage increase, such as the increase in the civil servant pay table, which Fidesz has not done in ten years, such as the reduction of the rate of low wages, the introduction of the EU wage union or the minimum wage. The third biggest problem, according to people, is that the cost of living is too high, 43 percent believe that this is part of the top 3 problem. We see inflation on the run, we see that wages and pensions do not keep pace with price increases, we see that this is largely the result of the economic policy of György Matolcsy and the Fidesz government, the weak forint, and we see that there is a solution at the same time, because basic services can be provided free of charge, there can be stronger forints in economic policy, and then people would not be able to bear the cost of living so much. There are too many social differences between rich and poor. Private aircraft, luxury yachts, helicoptering, stadium and small railway at the back of the garden, hundreds of billions of dollars in Orbán's assets at the gas plant, son-in-law, rope boyfriend, soty partner and others, so fidesz urization in the nose and mouth on one side, and month by month millions living on the other side. The solution is to tax up to ten thousand. Pensions are low, there are 100-fold differences between the smallest and the largest pensions, and there is no pension increase. There is great corruption, Orbán and Mészáros; Tiborcz, Orbán and Garanchi; Szijjártó and László Szíyj; Rogán, Lazarus, Borkai, Mengyi, Happy, György Simonka, and we can continue the line. Compared to this, migration is a serious problem for 8 percent of people, but there is great openness to solutions. The basic income is supported by 73 percent, the extension of unemployment benefit is 70 percent, the multi-key tax is 78 percent, and the Fidesz group is close to 70 percent, and the taxes on giant wealth are supported by 88 percent. So the content of Fidesz's policy goes against the belief of society, people want change, because this government is not legitimate, and this change will not be brought by the representatives of the power elite, but by a new set, today's opposition parties in 2022. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-26-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2020-10-26-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We had a little feeling he was giving a selection of speeches from the last few years, so you'd like to ask yourself, don't you realize that we're in the middle of an epidemic? I understand that you can bring studies here, and you could even argue about the issues, but if you ask me the question of what is most concerned with people right now, that epidemic, including two things, is how we can protect people's lives and how we can protect the economy, how we can create jobs. So allow me to respond to this because I think that this is the most important thing right now. He mentioned health care in part. They usually make all kinds of misleading allegations; they are the same people who said that the worst are mortality statistics in Hungary, so let's look at the facts. You know very well that the epidemic is deteriorating throughout Europe. The number of new infections has reached a record among others in Belgium, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Italy, Poland, Germany, Portugal and Austria. And I wonder if in these countries the opposition there takes the liberty of claiming that the governments there have released the epidemic because that is what you are doing. And if I look at the number of deaths per 100,000 people, we can still say that Hungary is among the more effective countries. And as far as actions are concerned, in addition to political accusations such as yours, what matters is that the government considers it important to protect people's lives, which is why we had to mobilise all the energy to prepare health care over the last few months, and that is why in the days we had to tighten up, among other things, the rules of masking. You, like those who often talk about the importance of testing, should know, or already know, that a new type of testing procedure has been introduced, called antigen tests, which make diagnosis faster, which is very, very helpful to the institutions. We do not expect you to sign and support any decision of the government with your eyes closed as an opposition party, with your hands held up, but the case is that when health workers criticize the functioning of the health system, the performance of nurses and doctors fighting in the front line is debated. [[11.10]] And if you care about the wage increase, please add that the government has decided on the largest medical wage increase in recent decades, while the increase in nursing wages is in progress, which, in total, will be 72% in the coming years. As far as social differences are concerned, this government has raised the minimum wage much better, doubled it than your allies when they had the chance. The proposal that you are pushing for, the proposal for basic income, would mean a return to an era where it was much more worthwhile to live on aid instead of work. As far as your attitude and actions are concerned, it is worth asking what you, the left-wing authorities, or your mayor, have added to the epidemiological defense. If I'm okay with it, I'm gonna say "inaction" and "involvement" to something else. But if I'm tougher, I have to say, the worst fake news campaign in recent years. The fact is, you, you continue to do this weekly in this House. What you are able to do in the field of health is very well illustrated by the reports on nursing homes. We still do not know what they have done to strengthen the protection of nursing homes. Let's look at the economic issues. As I understand it, that's what matters to you. We know that Budapest is sitting on more than a hundred billion dollars, yet it is not willing to sacrifice it to strengthen the troubled sectors. Insect hotels, they're established, now there's a wasp garage, but there's no lifeline for companies. There's no such thing. What we have is an idea of a massive tax increase. You confirmed that. They want to raise corporate taxes. It seems that everything on the left always comes to mind the same thing, and this is the tax increase; and it is not a single plan, because we know that they want two-key income tax, we know that they want to reduce family tax incentives, and we also remember well how they flirted with the idea of property tax. So, honourable Member, I think that some insect hotels, some wasp garages, with the thoughts of Facebook posts and tax increases, will be very little for the leadership of a big city and for the control of the epidemic. I think the time has come for you to play your part in the fight against the epidemic. There's a chance of that every day. Go ahead. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Bence of Turdai takes his place in the notary seat.]]
u2020-10-26-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Parliament, The fact is that the government mocks the local government with another decision is ignoring the electoral will with another decision. But in order not to leave my fellow pro-government Members in doubt, let me clarify what I am talking about. Last week, October 20, 460/2020 came out. a decree of the government, in which new powers were removed from the I. district municipality, another package of decisions has been put into law or made binding by decree, which renders the implementation of the local will impossible in the district. But what does this government decree contain? It is part of the fact that the information on the protection of settlements and professional consultation in the Castle are not mandatory in relation to investments. There is no need for an impact assessment on heritage if there is a government-supported investment. It also includes changes that the construction of new constructions does not require the construction of a parking lot for a passenger car or, in general, not only a parking lot or a parking space for a motor vehicle or a bus, but also the possibility to place a bicycle. You practically allow the roof space of all buildings to be built on several levels in this government decree. The height of the inner courtyard façade, the height of the spine, the angle of inclination of the roof and, for all buildings, the maximum level of installation above the ground level may be up to 100 per cent. I think it is worth talking about, because they say that regulations, construction rules, which are in force in different districts, are pointless; they say that building regulations are only such an obstacle, but building regulations are important because of the development of healthy and functional urban fabric. We believe that environmental legislation is also important because of the protection of a healthy environment, and that the protection of monuments is important because of the preservation of our built heritage. You don't care about all of this, because you have a vision, and you cut off the will to vote, cut off the fact that you lost the election in the 2019 municipal election, you're crossing the district regulations. For example, the current decision lists 23 places where construction area can be occupied occasionally by 2026. Don't get me wrong, we don't usually oppose developments, because there are good examples, for example, in the case of the Gellért-hegy shuttle, where a good trilateral agreement is outlined between the capital city, the I. district and the government. But you also need to see that these rules go beyond electoral will. We can see that the decisions that have already been made have had shocking consequences, since let's look at the story. First, the state took the municipal-owned land around the Buda Castle, without compensation; then it gave more power to a company than the municipality. And we are now at a point where, when you noticed that the municipality refused to assist in the destruction, for example, it did not grant a tree cutting permit for the construction of Dísz tér 1-2, you declared this a major investment, you bypassed the elected and empowered municipality in terms of its licenses, and you practically crossed over the head of the municipality through a government priority investment. I respectfully ask you not to represent the interests of your own entrepreneurs, but of your constituents. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-10-26-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2020-10-26-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First, it made a general comment on the municipalities and then expressed its position on a specific case, so that I would first respond to the general remark. I would also like you to see clearly in this respect: the Government of Hungary considers the municipalities, all municipalities, regardless of their political affiliation, as partners. This, by the way, is clearly seen in the language of the numbers and means that, for example, in the difficult budgetary situation of the control of the epidemic, there is an additional 16 per cent budget support available to municipalities for next year. [[11.20]] This is also true for the municipalities of Budapest. In addition, we see from the statistics of recent years that both the metropolitan and district authorities' income for business tax has increased significantly, obviously not independently of the good economic performance before the virus. I only considered this important because it seems that if the country goes well, this government will make sure that it goes well for the municipalities, regardless of the political color. We believe that this must also be true, so if there is a difficult economic situation, then all actors must join forces and work together to protect the negative effects of the corona virus on human life, human health and on our jobs, on the economy. Everyone must take part in this burden in a proportionate and appropriate manner. We believe that this system is in operation at the moment, and that the municipalities, whether pro-government or opposition leaders, who are working seriously to resolve the situation, do not protest. It is clear that there are some municipalities that want to use this situation for political hysteria, just like many other situations before. From them, we hear all the criticisms of facts and realities that are completely out of control. I don't think it's worth bringing them into Parliament. Moreover, Mr President, after his speech on the general government sector, he also spoke about the National Hauszmann programme, namely the renovation of the Buda Castle. With your permission, I'd like to tell you a few things about what we've done in the last few years. Because you said something about what would happen in the future, and I can tell you to look at the results of the program. You claim that we are going to do something that is not good, and I am talking about what has been happening in the past few years, and I think that both the Budapesters and all Hungarians in the context of the nation's capital are the opinions of all Hungarian people in the context of the Buda Castle, and their views are supportive in this respect. In recent years, the Carmelite building in the Buda Castle district has been renewed, the once ideologically demolished buildings, the horseguard, the main guard and several circular stairs have been rebuilt. The horseyard opens as a multifunctional event hall in the second half of 2021. Accessibility and settlement of the environment are taking place. In the building of the main guard there was a café, an exhibition that commemorates the Hungarian guards. We have handed over to the public the complexly renovated and beautiful well of Matthias, one of the greatest attractions of the Castle, has never been through such a reconstruction. Greening and accessibility of the foal yard is underway. We are working on the restoration of the southern connecting wing of the Buda Castle and the St. Stephen's Hall, and will open it to the public on 20 August 2021. We continue to renovate the stairs, promenades, parks, gardens, the castle walls, and we will clean up all the walks leading to the Buda Castle. Several sections of the unparalleled panoramic promenade have already been renovated, in 2020 we will complete the renovation of the entire promenade and begin the renewal of the surrounding green areas. We've restored the King's staircase, the lower section of the Hunyadi staircase. St George's Square and Theatre Street have been disabled and returned to the pedestrians. In the square, we planted a number of flowers, a new tree, and began to repair the streets. The country's historical main square will soon become more beautiful and more comfortable to walk on. I think it is still worth highlighting the renovation of the well of the children fishing on the Savoy Terrace, and indeed, the preparation of the reconstruction of buildings which were organically included in the view of the Buda Castle, but destroyed for ideological reasons. The reconstruction of the Archduke Palace of József, the Honvéd High Command and the Red Cross Association's headquarters has also started. I think these are improvements that would be worth supporting beyond political logic if they enjoyed it. Once again, the Buda Castle will shine in its old light, the capital will be decorated, greener, more family-friendly, cleaner and more local-living-friendly. I think we should all be happy about this. Thank you very much for your word and patience, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-8	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Lajos Oláh, representative of DK, also submitted a statement before the agenda. Who is responsible for the release of the epidemic? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán says that everyone should wear masks. That was an important and good sentence. But we all remember that only a few of the 133 brave Members used masks in the spring. By not using a mask, you then showed people that this is some kind of pointless clowning. It is very difficult, fellow Members, to explain to people that the same virus does not hurt in the spring and hurts in the fall. By treating the epidemic in the spring and refusing to wear masks, you have shown the country that this does not need to be seriously addressed. And now everyone's struggling to tell you, but yes, you have to wear a mask. Better late than never, of course. And the same is true for testing. Now you're saying there's no need for a free, large amount of rapid testing. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, life will show that there is a need, and you, as you refuse to act immediately, will react late again. There is a need for a free test, because if, for example, a trainer working in a gym today found out that there was someone there who was sick and so trained, they would not officially test him, but they would have to go out of their own pocket and pay 20,000 forints because you would not do the test. And it's a specific case, and it's not some fictional story. In the teacher's room, two teachers became covids, and the others didn't get the test. If they didn't want to go home and get sick and leave the students to stop teaching, then they had to go out of their own pocket and do this thing. When I say that a lot of tests are needed, it is important to remind you that throughout the past period you have been told that you have been tested in accordance with WHO recommendations. With great respect, I ask you to honor the sick and the deceased by not claiming any more untruth. You didn't do the test according to WHO recommendations. Since September 10th, the percentage of positive tests has been above 5%. WHO says that if they can keep it below 5%, then the epidemic is controlled. September 10th, I repeat, since September 10th, you have been unable to control the epidemic according to WHO. So don't argue that the WHO thinks you're doing everything right, because you're not doing anything right, according to WHO. On the 20th it was 15.62, then 15.6, 12.4, 15.16, 15.2, 16.6, and then 23 percent of the positive tests. You cannot handle the epidemic, ladies and gentlemen, you are unable to protect the workplaces of Hungarians. Because if the epidemic breaks loose, then the workplace is in danger, not just health. We are saying that we need these tests quickly, because there are numerous examples of the results coming in days later, while these people are coming to work and infecting, because you have been unable to build up capacity, honourable fellow Members. And the delay not only endangers them, but also endangers others, causing health and economic problems. If they have to go on sick leave, they'll take less money home, and families will be in trouble. You're gonna have to shut this country down because you're always late. When Viktor Orbán says that the death rate should be seen, Hungary was the third worst in terms of mortality per million inhabitants after the Czech Republic and Romania last week. Of course, the President of the Republic doesn't speak in such a situation, I'm sure he's busy because it's carp season. Instead of coming here and telling us, at least he has to stop, my dear Fidesz, something must be done to protect people's health and to protect the economy and jobs. Dear Government, Dear Fidesz Members, Be a lot more testing points, have the right capacity, introduce the free test so that schools do not have to be closed, because of school closures parents do not have to stay at home, do not endanger their livelihoods and work. The plague can only be overcome if they believe in a government, if they believe that what they say is true. [[11.30]] Given that you were unable to comply with WHO recommendations after 10 September, at the same time you lied about it in Parliament all along, so you no longer believe, and that is the biggest problem. The plague can only be overcome... So I'm asking you to save what's salvageable, to introduce the free, large amount of test. Thank you, and I'm sorry, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-10-26-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond.
u2020-10-26-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I see the ambition of trying to come up with statistics from week to week that could challenge Hungary's performance so far. Since you mentioned the number of deaths per 100,000 people, allow me to point out the same thing in the first place. So, if you look at how many people died during the epidemic period per 100,000 people [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Last week!]] , then this number is 13 in Hungary; so, honourable Member, 13. In France, 51 is more than three times the size, Sweden is a richer country 58, in the UK 67 and in Belgium 92, many times the number of Hungarians, even though it is a much richer country. So Hungary is still among the more effective defence countries. As far as the basic circumstances are concerned, the epidemic is taking off everywhere in the world and breaking new records. A very active phase of the second wave is taking place, and unfortunately Hungary is no exception. At least 42 million people have been infected and 1 million have died. The epidemic is deteriorating all over Europe. In recent days, the number of deaths, i.e. now the number of deaths, has reached a record in Russia, Slovakia, Croatia, Poland. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: in Hungary!]] Now, as far as the individual measures are concerned, I take note that you think you know better than the CDC experts, but if you are attacking the government, at least do not dispute their efforts, because they do so day by day. It is not our efforts that are being debated that may be their goal, but that of the doctors and nurses. As regards the specific decisions: given the circumstances mentioned above, the government has decided to wear masks to outdoor events and sports events as of Friday. I won't say anything else by saying that in the absence of a vaccine, wearing a mask and complying with the restraining order is the most effective way to defend itself. When the government makes such a decision, I would like to emphasise here too, in every case on the basis of a proposal from the epidemiological experts. To mention one more thing: flu vaccinations are already being administered. The government is now giving this to everyone free of charge. In order to ensure the smooth functioning of schools, I believe that this is in the common interest during the fall break of antiseptic cleaning, and where the infection is returning, soldiers will also help with disinfection. With regard to the data, in part, I would like to say that the collection of data is not uniform. For example, Hungary regards any deceased who may have a fatal disease as a victim of the virus, who has ever been diagnosed with this disease. In some countries, however, they have much more affordable statistics. And as far as the tests are concerned, he also referred to this, and I would like to tell you either that he has not been informed of it, or he is deliberately silent about it, but in the last few days, so-called antigen-based rapid tests have been organized. As your name shows, it's a quick test, so it allows a quick diagnosis. We think that this is a great help to the institutions. We see that you continue to build a campaign for the deceased. We continue to find this callous and heartless. At least consider the dignity of those who have lost their lives and the dignity of their families. If I'm right about what you're saying, you're lobbying for tightening up. If that is the case, please tell us in which areas they would be tightened up, i.e. they would introduce digital education, or they might want to have a new curfew. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] Tell me, and we will be able to engage in a much more concrete dialogue. One left-wing party also submitted a proposal, a clear step towards the closure of the country. Take a look at the proposal, you'll get a chance. However, our basic principle is that it is worth taking measures that have high social support in the first place. We must continue to apply two fundamental aspects: the protection of human life and the protection of the Hungarian economy. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-10-26-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2020-10-26-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On October 23, the whole world celebrates a freedom-loving nation. On 23 October 1956, the Hungarian people showed that they did not tolerate tyranny and oppression and that people from completely different backgrounds could unite for a common goal. On October 23, this year, a crowd of ten thousand rolled on the streets of Budapest. They bowed their heads to the heroes and stood up for the University of Theatre and Film Arts, for the freedom of teaching, for the autonomy of the university, for the cause of freedom. The vast majority of the ten thousand were young people, but with them were health workers, nurses, doctors, educators and trade unions. It was an exemplary effort. Minister Gergely Gulyás was in a hurry to send a message to this crowd. From where else than from the bourgeois club, he told them that they were actually standing up for the government and the government. He also said in his speech that no one else is interested in this matter. I, too, would like to send a message to Minister of State through you. First of all, I'd like to tell him that there are some things we don't joke about. Destroying people's lives and careers isn't a joke. Our children, by killing the dreams of youth, we are not joking. That is exactly what they are doing, fellow Members. Minister Gulyás was not only joking but also lying cynically. He claims, and so do you, that Fidesz and the government have nothing to do with this case. But I ask you, fellow Members, who has put forward the law that has been used to destroy the university? The Hungarian government, of which Gergely Gulyás is a member. Who voted for this law here in Parliament? The Fidesz-KDNP fraction, of which Gergely Gulyás is a member. And who came to the Curatorium of the University of Theatre and Film Arts to appoint MOL's strategic CEO and, obviously, on a national basis, the CEO of Slovnaft? István Örkény would be on his way, my fellow Members. But they didn't stop because they appointed the Mechanized Shooter Colonel Chancellor. Tell me what you're doing, how much longer you want to go. Indeed, such instruments were allowed only in the darkest communist and Nazi dictatorship. This, done by destroying the SZFE, is like burning a book, where political power deliberately destroys a culture and universal human values that it doesn't like. This is the power pride and violence that Hungarians do not tolerate, and Hungarians do not tolerate fun and jokes with the lives of their children. Ladies and gentlemen, There's no way for you to go. Understand that every step you take against young people is a coffin nail in your system. And yes, you can destroy the university, fire the teachers, fire the students, but this will have consequences for you both personally and in terms of your political life. They can only make a victory in Pyrrh. I'm asking you to stop or, if you understand me better, turn your back. Today we have tabled a bill that speaks of nothing more than the fact that their law of 2020/72, adopted here in Parliament in a shameful way, must be repealed, the property and autonomy returned to the university, and leave teachers and students to live their lives with honor, and continue to create a value for the nation of pride. We ask you to vote on this bill now, or the next Parliament will vote on it without you. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you really need court actors, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that half the country is being carried out into the private foundation of Balázs Orbán. [[11.40]] They'll just find a castle or a palace where they can teach actors or filmmakers that you like and like, but leave the SZFE alone. I think the lesson is clear: this country does not tolerate oppression, it does not like freedoms to be trampled on, and there will be consequences. We're asking you to vote for our law and end this spree. Thank you for listening.
u2020-10-26-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda responds to what has been said.
u2020-10-26-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We agree that the heroes of 1956 deserve the greatest respect, and it is good to hear it from the representative of the Communist successor party [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] It's a good thing we agree on that at least. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán and Dr. Pál Völner intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] But, honourable Member, you spoke of a demonstration, a commemoration of 56 [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: You and your superior leaders! Intercoms.]] And let me tell you, we can't just walk away from what happened a decade and a half ago. You destroyed the 50th anniversary of October 23, 1956. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] a memorial, a demonstration that saluted the memory of the Hungarian heroes. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman! If you have one! Someone who went against freedom was you. It was you who chased old people, chased mothers, chased my mother, chased women and children on the 50th anniversary of October 23, 1956. Mr. Congressman, from you. We're not gonna accept criticism after this. And, honourable Member, we have said this, and we are saying this now, that we in civil Hungary are giving everyone the opportunity to protest peacefully, we are not shooting out eyes, we are not beating people, we are not chasing mothers, and we are not chasing old people. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán to Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Try it, it feels good!]] Mr President, that is the minimum. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, But also to talk about the University of Theatre, a few sentences that you want to acquire for your own political gain, honourable Member, in fact, no one has disputed from the Balliberal side even for years that the university needs to be transformed, changes are necessary, and it is in everyone's common interest to develop there. There hasn't been a debate in this for years. And a decision has been made to allow this change to be truly possible, with the possibility of achieving a better, more qualitative, more competitive education in this higher education institution as well. And there really is a debate, there is a debate between the people of culture, among the theater makers, among the filmmakers, about how this should work. In this debate, I think that we politicians have no task and no role. This debate must be conducted by people of culture. Honourable Congressman, What you can add to this matter is that you are not trying politically to settle on this issue, and you are not trying, honourable Member, to threaten me. Your leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, threatens all those who struggle and work to ensure that the University of Theatre and Film can provide better, better and more effective training. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] And, honourable Member, the government is giving us all the help and support, that is what it is about to provide more than HUF 3 billion next year in order to improve the infrastructure, to improve the pay of those in education, to enable teachers working there to operate in a freer way, to operate the institution in a freer way. The fact is, indeed, honourable Member, that you are not on the side of freedom here, nor are you on the side of freedom here, because this new model makes it possible to operate more freely anywhere else, including in this higher education institution. It is no coincidence that the model-shifting institutions welcome these changes, as they are well aware that this helps their work and helps their educational, research and professional activities. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that the debates that have been held here in recent months have, I believe, provided a reassuring answer to all the questions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-16	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda with the title "Our Common Things." You have the floor.
u2020-10-26-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When a few months ago the scandalously escaped Fidesz ambassador, concerning the aberrant Gábor Kaleta, do not be merciful to pedophile monsters! I did not express my speech before the agenda to those close to the NER, with the words of the Parliamentary Protocol, with the words of the Speaker's order, with the words of the Parliament's minutes, with these sentences:, in a given subject, you do not need to adjust the style of speech to the level of moralism which you have whipped, perceived or true. So it could have been performed in a slightly higher and fairer style. I hope you'll look for the splinter in the pro-government benches, and from now on, you won't just be looking for the splinter in our eyes. We'll remember XX this weekend. On the anniversary of the death of István Nagyatádi Szabó, the most important peasant-born politician of Hungarian history in the century, whose father was still the jealous serf of the Széchenyi family, and whose life course, I believe, can provide a lot of guidance for all my fellow Members here. As a prominent representative of Hungary's largest and most time-lived creative and sustaining social formation, peasantry and rural Hungary guarding the nation for a thousand years, he was able to remain a man in his native village in South Somogy and become a statesman in the parliament. Although he was entitled to the title "Monsieur Merciful" on account of his rank as a minister, he was happiest if he was simply called "Brother Pista"; and when he visited home, he always gave him a bottle and called his former elementary school teacher "Master." Of course, it wasn't an anti-knowledge and intellectual era, then no one even thought to unite with the populous kinship in the open street to beat up a teacher like it did a while ago at the Heves County Kombolt. In contrast to today, the state and society appreciated the teaching profession not only in a material but also in a moral sense, and everyone from those living in the worst conditions to the Prime Minister knew that the teacher is not the enemy, and the school is often the only option. On the foundation of the statue of István Szabó Nagyatádi before the Ministry of Agriculture, his political creed, his slogan is:. We came to Parliament not to hurt, but to heal wounds. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now, when the cancerist, who is not with us, is raging again through science to the arts, the Bolshevik is against us, I want to say: Nersevik's approach, then it would be good for those who have power to think about it. Of course, István Nagyatádi Szabó was not driven by the notion that he could do anything for money and power. I've already gone home from the velvet chair twice, and I'll do it a third time when I'm not needed. Just before he died, he said: "I have 45 cadastral moons, but only now, since my wife inherited 15 acres. How incredible is this in the world of luxurious yachtsmen, urizing stromanos and politicians who are attacking almost a hundred billion-dollar fortunes, thousands of acres of estates? In the end, another anecdote, perhaps also bearing lessons. When he was elected as the first politician of peasant origin in 1908, he insisted on wearing his boots, the little master's clothing, in the Chamber. At that time, the limping gentlemen said that he was being called a stinking jerk and called him a hired man. Our Pista brother wasn't an insulting man, and he looked around, and he just said, "You ought to have a hired man with all these jerks." [[11.50]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, if, by some miracle, István Nagyatádi, István Szabó, were to rise, I suspect that he would poke his moustache, roll up his sleeve, spit in his hand, and start cleaning out the stables of Augias, where the stench of dung is quite high. Ladies and Gentlemen, Members of the Government, I ask you, building a potato republic, going through everything and everyone, how do you feel about your ability to meet the standards set by the South Somogy peasant? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Attila Gelencsér takes the notary seat.]]
u2020-10-26-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Farkas, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2020-10-26-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the ideas that you have just brought up here, which you have said about István Nagyatádi, the former great Minister of Agriculture, are true in the ministerial characterization, but the merging of them with today's ideas and putting it in today's position is, in my view, unfounded. Just because, if we look at the development of Hungarian agriculture and the steps of the past decades, there have been a number of cases where, in fact, it does not always apply to the minister of small farmers, even if not to István Nagyatádi Szabó, there have been Vargabes in the development and interpretation of agriculture that we have not been able to fully recover from until today. Here is a current example: there is family ancestry, and before that there are difficulties arising from the compensation law, which are still decisive in the Hungarian land estate policy. How István Nagyatádi Szabó thought, how he dressed, how he participated in public life is history, but if we compare it now and it will sound strangely from my mouth to today's Hungarian agricultural management, because I think that heaven and earth compare the two ages. Nor can it be, because then there were completely different ownership conditions and, not least, economic development in agriculture. There was already a development, but, as I mentioned earlier, there were so many breaks, so many breaks, so many turns back over the decades, which had always to be re-educated, always had to be re-adapted, to re-establish opportunities in agriculture. This is the beauty of agriculture, that not only in agricultural policy, but also in the freshening of natural conditions, the freshening of everyday life, everyday life, I can safely say, is the greatness of the profession that we consider to be agricultural. At the same time, I have to mention that, in today's context, we see that the economic development that involves the appreciation of farmers and host organisations with different support policies, and I dare say this with a calm heart, not only with respect but also with professional agreement, but also with the view of these professional organisations, of course, to use them to further develop agriculture, to make it a valuable sector. And now, when it's time for the coronal virus epidemic, there is, and unfortunately, there may even be a few months or who knows for how long, it's clear that every worker in the agricultural sector is working without exception from the small ones to the large ones, from the gardener to the farmer, from the plant grower to the tractor owner, and I can't even complete all the professions, all working to ensure that the safe food production of this country and not just its production and production are on the table of all of us. I think it is such a huge task, not only that it is voluntary, but it is in the genes of everyone who lives in a large part of agriculture, partly because of inheritance and partly because of occupation. This is the task, this is the strength, which gives us all the ups and downs I can safely say, the social appreciation of the agricultural society, because let's be honest, in the last 60 or 40 years, I have not described the last 10 years, but in the previous period, the social appreciation of the agricultural society has clearly not been achieved. We have now come to the point that, yes, a significant part of the Hungarian society and the Hungarian people acknowledge this work, and we know that we, who live our lives as part of the leadership and part-active participant of agriculture, are able to put on the table the performance, the well-being, the security that we call food or even other products coming out of the agricultural sector. To do so, we need the political measures that István Nagyatádi started several decades ago, and today we can significantly increase and strengthen the role of this sector based on today's knowledge, taking into account today's technologies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ms. Hajnalka Juhász, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, spoke before the agenda: on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2020-10-26-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the second wave of the epidemic, it is very important to talk about how to preserve the functioning of the Hungarian economy, what we do in order to keep jobs and protect businesses, as the Hungarian government has taken a number of complex measures to this end. One of the most important cornerstones of this was the establishment of the economic defence operational tribe, as this operational tribe was created in order to recognise and remove administrative obstacles that would curb the re-launching of the economy. Thanks to the economic protection action plan, the Hungarian economy was supported by HUF 6000 billion, and thanks to this economic protection action plan and wage subsidies, it helped 280 thousand employees. The preservation and preservation of grey stock is very important, and the Hungarian government plays a key role in the field of researchers and innovation. Thanks to 17 billion HUF support, nearly 23,000 research and development engineers could have kept their jobs. These are very important things. The Hungarian government has always stressed that the protection of families and the support of families are of paramount importance, and, in addition to supporting families, the strengthening of the Hungarian economy. I would like to mention two grants, both starting on 1 January 2021. One is home-building support. Thanks to this support for home creation, the VAT on the sale of newly built homes will be reduced from 27 percent to 5 percent, and families using the CSOK can also claim VAT from 5%. In addition, the renovation program is very important. This will also start from 1 January 2021, which will allow families with at least one child to use it. The aim of this is that the state will pay for at least half of the renovation, but for a maximum of HUF 3 million. These are very, very important steps. We also need to raise the extension of the credit-payment moratorium, as it holds nearly HUF 400-450 billion in Hungarian families and businesses. This can be claimed by public workers, pensioners, unemployed people, families with children, and businesses whose income has been greatly reduced. I would like to stress that this credit-payment moratorium is unique in the world, since it is full, automatic and covers 9 months. We must not forget the importance of promoting tourism and tourism, so the government has extended the measures on the SZÉP card to include next year, which leaves the budget of 800 thousand HUF, because we do not know when foreign tourism and tourism will start in Hungary, it is obviously a question of vaccine, but it is very important to support our Hungarian accommodation and catering facilities through the SZÉP card. We all see in the second wave that, however, economic growth and job retention can only be achieved with a highly competitive economic policy and a responsible economic policy. [[12.00]] Therefore, investments in innovative sectors, digitalisation or the green economy are essential, and in this connection allow me to highlight the 6 billion HUF support that can be used in the Hungarian government's climate and nature conservation action plan to purchase more than 2,000 environmentally sound cars and scooters. Our aim is also to further promote the greening of transport and promote the spread of lower-price electric cars. We see that the Hungarian economy is facing the virus in a strong and stable financial situation, and the responsible measures of the Hungarian government have greatly contributed to this. Thanks to the Hungarian government's economic policy, a growth path has been launched since 2013, resulting in a 4.9 percent increase in 2019 with an average economic growth of 1.5 percent in the EU, so we will do our best to face the virus as successfully as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó will respond to what has been said.
u2020-10-26-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You talked about the epidemic, crisis management, and specifically about home creation and family support. Allow me a few thoughts on this matter. In Hungary, as everywhere in the world, there is an epidemic. The coronal virus epidemic affecting both the world and Hungary has a number of negative negative effects, from which no state can exclude itself, and therefore Hungary cannot. When we talk about Hungary's need to work, this means, above all, protecting jobs, and we want to maintain and strengthen the standard of living of families, and not only to protect the level and quality that Hungary has reached in ten years, but also to ensure that every year everyone can move forward. But, speaking of crisis management, it is worth comparing how the then Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments were facing crises before 2010 and what is happening today. Before 2010, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments remembered everything about austerity. We all remember that then they took a month's wages from public sector workers, took a month's pension from the elderly, taxed the family allowance, raised the retirement age, raised the VAT, and shortened the duration of the child. During that period, the country was indebted and the families were in a difficult situation. And everyone can see what is happening today, and the civilian government is not abandoning Hungarian families, Hungarian people or Hungarian businesses in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. We will rebuild the 13th month pension from the beginning of next year, the largest increase in medical wages will take place so far, we introduced it and extended it last week, as the congresswoman said, we have introduced the credit moratorium, employment protection wage support, and we will grant interest-free job retention loans to businesses. It is clear from this list that while former left-wing governments have only introduced restrictions, we help Hungarian people by all means. Dear Parliament, In 2010, the civil government took a family-friendly turn on the basis of the electoral will, the fundamental element of which is to build a family-friendly country in partnership with Hungarian families, working for Hungarian families, which does not hit it, but helps and supports the removal of obstacles to family formation and childbearing, and in which young couples have realistic opportunities to implement their childbearing plans. Our goal is to support the birth of every desired child and to break down the barriers to having children. Since 2010, in order to mention just a few examples, we have helped families with family tax reductions. In 2015, we introduced the family home support, the CSOK, which has been extended several times since then, and we also provide baby shower support to help children get home, mothers with children under the age of three can use the ged extra, we implement a large-scale nursery development program. And in 2020 we reached another milestone, implementing the biggest home-building programme of all time, which will increase the standard of living for families, boost the economy and help create new jobs, so it is good not only for families but also for the economy, it is good for employers and it is good for workers. To this end, as Mrs President mentioned, as from 1 January 2021 we will introduce the 5% reduced VAT on the purchase of new apartments, the families with children using the CSOK will be able to claim this 5% VAT back. We also support the renovation of the apartments for families with children up to 50 percent of the costs, up to HUF 3 million, and the purchase of new and used apartments for families with children taking the CSOK will be free of charge. As can be seen from this, we work for families and Hungarian families in the epidemic situation, helping to have children, helping to raise children and create homes. What we want is for every family with children to have a safe roof over their head. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-24	Thank you very much, Mr Róbert Zsigo. Dear Parliament, István Bajkai, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-25	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although it's getting colder out there, it's almost November, but it's getting hotter in Elizabeth City, you might say the municipality is thrilled. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] , and warmth pours over the halls of the mayor's office after the investigative bodies have conducted a search on House VII. The district council building. Péter Niedermüller's right-hand man, Lajos Oláh's DK MP, the president of DK in Erzsébetváros, member of the former national presidency of DK, President of the Committee on Finance and District Development, Tamás Borka-Szász during the operation of a secret bitcoin mine. Within a few hours after the reservation of the powerful server and computer devices, Tamás Borka-Szász resigned from his membership of the Party and became unavailable. Although DK would like to keep the case quiet and reduce it, it is a very serious matter, as it has been regularly in the office room operating the bitcoin mine, Tamás Borka-Szász's party boss, Lajos Oláh, MEP DK and mayor of the Christian hater Péter Niedermüller also discussed the matter. The DK server was connected online to the Dark Web, the dark side of the Internet, where terrorists, traffickers, drug smugglers, code-breakers, arms smugglers, industrial and political spies exchange money and information invisibly, hacked email accounts, storage data, drugs or even weapons. Tamás Borka-Szász, DK, was connected to this network of international criminals, which provided them with the work they were doing, i.e. the computer capacity of its server, and therefore received money that neither the tax authorities nor the banks could see. It is also possible that dark web criminals had access to the databases of the Erzsébetváros Municipality via the local government's Internet network, they could obtain data from citizens, companies and civil society organisations, but there is also a risk that they could have access to the data of the government agency in the building of the municipality. And after this highly energy-intensive server was not equipped with any security device, there was a danger that it would cause fire and tragedy. It is reasonable to suspect that bitcoin mining is not a recent form of theft of the left-hand side, since the switchboard above the center of DK in Erzsébetváros had previously been a fire due to overload, and two years ago the seat of DK Teréz road was completely burned out, and there was also an overload. We have always known that the left finds the path of theft in a creative way, the theft is their tradition, as in Erzsébetváros, György Hunvald, Mayor of MSZP, and his right-hand man, György Gál, Committee President of SZDSZ, lived the district's wealth in an ingenious way until the police capture ended their activities. [[12.10]] As the left came to power again in Elizabeth, he continued where Hunvald and his accomplices left off. The autumn speech, the 2006 police officer, the eye-shooting, Attila Vidnyánszky and the threat of making all of us runaway are evidence of Ferenc Gyurcsány's view of the darkest cancerist communist times, according to which everything is permitted for power, anything is free for power, including theft and, if he could, crush those who oppose him. In view of all this, the secret bitcoin mine in Elizabeth raises serious questions: how long has this secret crypto currency factory been producing? What amount did he get from his dark web masters to DK? What did DK spend the invisible money on? Activists, journalists, fake civilians, party and campaign funding, embarrassing blogs, portals, anti-government, paid movementaries, mercenaries? Let's hope the investigation detects all the dark secrets of the Elizabethan bitcoin mine. Ferenc Gyurcsány is the heir to the ideas of Ernő Gerő, Antalok Tinyó, János Kádár, Béla Biszku. In the process of humming the International, he has a left-wing dictatorship as his real dream, and the service of foreign forces threatening our country is the safe background, and the bitcoin mine of Tamás Borka-Szász is proof of that: funding as well. The Gyurcsányist leadership, as it is a tradition in addition to theft on the left, is still in the service of foreign forces, and whose passwords of freedom and democracy are only Goebbels' deceptive voices and siren voices. These two left-wing traditions are embodied by the DK bitcoin mine itself. How did Péter Niedermüller say at the inaugural council meeting in Erzsébetváros? I welcome the members of the emerging MSZMP fraction. Then, when it was warned that the MSZMP no longer exists, it just added: "Unfortunately so. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. God saves the country from this all-powerful Galeri, this internationalist criminal organization serving the foreign, anti-Hungarian forces! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-26-26	Thank you, Congressman Bajkai. On behalf of the government, as I understand it, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will answer. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-10-26-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The quality of human life is fundamentally influenced by safety. Security, which can be measured in the safety of jobs, in the provision of health or in public safety; and in the same way, security is greatly influenced by trusting the political institutions that deal with our affairs, which represent us, with which we are in a daily relationship. People therefore rightly expect the representative of local public affairs, local authorities acting in public affairs, to serve their interests and to act legally and ethically in the course of their work. And obviously, security, security, is about the police working, and the police taking action against everyone who violates the law. We provide everyone with the right to life and property security and the right to protection. Everyone, the same. In the present case, it is true that the police have initiated an investigation, which, as in all cases, will investigate all facts and circumstances, will consider them, and the police will decide whether to initiate the investigation or to continue it. In the event of detection or detection of a criminal offence, all necessary measures will be taken in accordance with the legislation in force. In the case that was raised by the Member, the Budapest Police Headquarters (Police Headquarters) is listed in Annex VII. He's been reported for theft at his district precinct and other crimes. According to the complaint, In a district local government office room, which was otherwise exclusively used by Tamás Borkai-Szász, they found and observed a machine mining bitcoin. Law C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, paragraph 370. According to §2 of the Act, there was a suspicion of a misdemeanor of theft to a lesser extent. Otherwise, the sentence of this sentence could be two years imprisonment. This investigation is being conducted by the National Detective Bureau of the Alert Police. Having examined the data of the complaint, it can be concluded that the device has been put into service, it is necessary to examine the amount of energy used in its operation, the extent of the damage caused on this basis, after the facts of the the theft could have been achieved in the case of unauthorised current supply. The search was carried out in the local government's official room on 16 October 2020 with the help of the notary, during the course of the procedure the National Bureau of Investigation carried out data backup and seized the computer concerned. Data collection was carried out during the research in order to establish further relevant information to identify persons to be interviewed as witnesses. Obviously, the operation of such a bitcoin mine in the building of a local government is not primarily a problem, although it is obviously a serious matter that electricity or energy was stolen, but it is most likely that the assets could be purchased with public money, and the entire operation was also known by the administration of the office, the political leadership and the Parliamentary Representative, as he had to know it in that room. [[Gergely Harvesto: How did he know? Did you track him down? That's not true, you're lying like a river!]] in which the devices were present, they were present, and the operation of this machine is entirely obvious; whoever meets it must also be familiar with its exploitation. The investigation should therefore cover, on the one hand, the crime that has been committed, the penalties that it has, but I think that this raises a very serious political question: bitcoin mining alone, the fact that a politician mines bitcoin itself, and in particular the fact that he could have done it in the official premises of a local government, with the assets of the municipality, which presumably led to a prior fire over DK's office. I believe that a serious matter, in any case, requires a very precise investigation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-26-28	Thank you, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Bence Tordai to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-10-26-29	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Katalin Csöbör, Fidesz; Gergely Farkas, independent; Tamás Sneider, independent; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK [[Intercoms from the ranks of the ruling party: Hear, hear!]] And Adam Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2020-10-26-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has requested an interpellation, this item will not be discussed. We are now continuing our work with a debate on Commission reports and the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as possible, only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers should be present in the Chamber. [[Several Members leave the Chamber. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the establishment of certain rules on epidemiological measures and the amendment of certain legislation relating to epidemiological measures and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. [[12.20]] Government referral T/13308. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. At the same time, I remind my fellow Members that decisions will take place no earlier than 13 o'clock. Dear Parliament, Government referral T/13308. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-10-26-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 22 October 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13308 laying down certain rules on epidemiological measures and amending certain laws relating to epidemiological measures. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 26 votes in favour on the basis of an urgent procedure, with 1 vote and 6 abstentions. Dear House, Allow me to briefly describe the most important amendments. The bulking of the epidemiological quarantine procedures will require changes to the current rules of administration. The proposal contains administrative facilitations relating to the ordering and implementation of the three types of quarantine provided for in the Health Act. The significant administrative facilitation that the quarantined person may disclose the personal data on the official website of the police, 24 hours before entering Hungary, and the address of the quarantined residence may also be reported in advance. In cases where the suspicion of infection entails the imposition of a quarantine obligation, individual decision-making cannot be avoided. In these cases, the proposal aims to speed up administration through an exceptional decision-making procedure. In addition, there is a need to adapt the system of sanctions and administrative penalties applicable to infringements of official house quarantine. In order to ensure effective protection, the rules must be complied with, and in the event of their breach, the competent police department may impose a fine on the person who committed the violation, ranging from HUF 50,000 to HUF 150,000. Dear Parliament, An important point of the bill is that, in order to stop the spread of the coronal virus, the electronic health service space, the public education information system and the basic system of public education registration and study will be combined. This aims to make it easier to identify educational establishments affected by coronal virus infection, which will enable the necessary protection measures to be taken more quickly and effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the House's table should be supported, since the amendments contained therein clearly aim to make the control of the epidemic faster and more effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-32	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK. [[Máté Kocsis: Good luck!]]
u2020-10-26-33	Mr President, Dear House, We have tried to make proposals on this bill on how to make it more rational and how to abandon those elements which, to put it mildly, do not increase confidence that this bill is indeed for public purposes and indeed for epidemiological protection. We have suggested, among other things, that we leave out of this bill the rule that allows health workers to have unlimited access to health care services, as this may obviously be necessary in a time of health crisis, as you now write, and I add, as you practice, raises very serious problems and questions, because on the one hand, it raises problems with the healthcare institutions from which they bring the workers. There is also patient care, and there are very serious issues there too. If you decide to take away all the professionals, all the specialists from certain areas of expertise, then that is where people are at risk, and on the other hand, of course, health workers have personal circumstances, personal aspects that should or should be taken into account. Instead, there is a bureaucratic system of procedure. They're leading the medical staff right and left, filling a hole, but they're putting more holes in the medical ship. Some things can no longer be fixed, because the result of the failed health policy of the last decade is that there are few professionals in a range of fields and few doctors. But this is not a way of putting a greater burden on existing healthcare workers without reason and without thought, but of trying to agree on a control arrangement with organisations representing healthcare workers and with the workers themselves, which ensures that otherwise patient care can take place in an optimal way throughout health care. We are demanding an enormous burden from health workers in the country, I mean at this time, and unfortunately, this cannot be done differently. But let us at least estimate their sacrifice to the extent that we are not putting in place such a military command system, but to the extent that we are trying, rationally, to address the problems that arise, taking into account the need and all aspects. Another point of this bill, which normally exposes the fact that the main objective is, of course, even in such an extremely serious crisis, to rescue friends, to support friends, to amend the concession law and the gambling law. The Government was unable to give a meaningful answer in either debate, either in the explanatory statement or in the parliamentary and committee debates, as to why this is necessary. The suspicion that this is a matter of private interest is the suspicion of the man that your activities are based on during the crisis, when saving the Fidesz entrepreneurs is always the primary goal, and it is generally based on the whole casino business, which has become one of the NER's although not a single large system of money-paying, that it is also about your friends, relatives, friends and business partners, who have been allowed into the casino business and are now trying to help them out in some way. Maybe that's where I'm wrong, I don't know, I'll say it again because they didn't answer that question. They did not explain why the concession law and the gambling law should be amended, but there is a strong suspicion that this is the case and therefore they are hitting on these laws. Casinos and, of course, not only casinos, but other business interests are behind you trying to move this bill on the grounds of epidemiological control. As always, we have tried to reach a compromise, we have tried to find a good solution in the Commission debate and in the parliamentary debate, and, as always, we have been rejected. I have to say that it is absolutely natural that the opposition responsible for such a bill, in which there are mixed elements, cannot support me. Once again, we can say that what is needed to protect against the epidemic has always been supported, and we will continue to support what is in your political power and business interests, and we will not give our names to it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches. Máté Kocsis: Shame!]]
u2020-10-26-34	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. The next speaker is László Szakács, representative of MSZP.
u2020-10-26-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There was a long debate about this in Parliament, and I said then that, of course, one can see the rules, and perhaps in the spring it was possible to forgive the haste that there were rules that could not be observed, they were not formulated with sufficient precision, and of course, somehow this had to mature in life, so to speak. And then we saw the actions, one after the other at the government, which was mostly communication, and they were mostly in it. We saw how the entire government was moving away from the economic defence action plan, starting with the Prime Minister, and how it took some other direction when economic defence became the Budapest-Belgrád railway line after all. I'm only telling you this because it's our experience. [[12.30]] In each of these cases, we will have one more experience than we have left with the illusion that when you step into something and think that you want to do it properly, there is always a detour that will either become a Mátrai power plant or a Budapest-Belgrád railway line or shut down the country, but still, football matches can be held in front of the audience and I can continue the line. I'm telling you this because, with these rules, it's very important for people to comply with it. In the spring people, the Hungarian people, were extremely disciplined, even if it endangered their livelihoods, their work, protected their own health, their families and their colleagues, their acquaintances, and therefore I think that Hungary actually did well in the spring; because the Hungarian people were very disciplined. Therefore, we would have waited for a very rationally compiled, experience-based proposal that could have come in here, which properly regulates our lives, properly encourages people to comply with these rules, and now we see that the incentive in this proposal is actually to avoid punishment. There are other things, my fellow Members, that incentive, such as the whip and the fine, should, of course, have been emphasized at some level. We didn't learn from the so-called national stop in spring, either, that it's good to know how many sick people are among us. We know exactly how many patients there are. We know who is most at risk: doctors, nurses, retail workers, public services workers. I think they would be worth as much for their own comfort as for the comfort of their families, for the comfort of their workplaces, for the safety of their employees, if they had already met so many people, they would inevitably meet so many people that they would be tested by the state, provided with resources from state resources to give them, say, two tests a month; if they do not have enough of the more expensive ones, then they should have enough of the cheaper ones, but they should. I think that if we don't pay proper attention to our doctors, nurses or even those involved in the public service, I don't see how they would see that there is a government that wants to do something, and that's why the citizen himself wants to do something in return. It follows from the spirit of this law that the government wants to defend itself at all costs, and anyone who disagrees or thinks otherwise, or who is breaking the rule, and who will deserve it, and who will not deserve to be punished for it, will be punished by you. I'd take that thinking to the incentive. It has also been mentioned that the opposition does not want to remove administrative burdens from the authorities. Yes, you can. Of course, we would also like to remove administrative burdens from the authority's shoulders, but we would like to remove them even more from the shoulders of citizens, who may not be as familiar with these administrative cases or procedures as the authority would, let us say, do. We don't know who's gonna help them, and we don't know how much of this is gonna happen. Not least, but last to mention, yes, gambling concession. Of course, I suppose we will now hear the need to preserve jobs. Indeed, in the gambling industry, we must now preserve jobs, and this is likely to be the reason why a gambling concession will be included in the rules to protect health and life. Ladies and gentlemen, They couldn't make it? They couldn't stand to see this come into a separate law, so they didn't have to rush into this, what kind of quarantine rules to follow, and on the next page, the gambling concession? Why can't they just stand to see this work in another law? Why do we have to talk about this because it will, I suppose, need to protect the economy, and this can only go through today's management of the gambling concession? Why didn't you think of that when you stuffed Lurch Mészáros with money, you gave him HUF 17.7 billion when he took 11 billion forints from his own company as dividends and laid him off and made his life hell for 850 of his employees? Then you didn't think of that, and now you're thinking about gambling. What I'm asking is that you may still be able to do something about this in a separate law, so you can stand it once. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-26-36	Thank you, Congressman László Kács. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-10-26-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We had a long debate on this law last Monday night, but Gergely Arató has since been able to come up with bigger lies about both the law and the defence and their role in defence, as Congressman is once again struggling with memory loss, because they did not support anything about defence, they did not support the authority, they did not support the laws necessary for defence, they did not support the Crown Virus Act. They're doing this mine job where they left off last spring, where they left off last week, and we keep seeing from you that you've not only pulled yourself out of defense, but you're even holding it back. What have you DKs been up to, your mayors about the fight against the plague? They stuffed ten million forints into the criminal Csaba Czeglédy and stole electricity; this is your balance sheet, the DK scale, in the middle of the fight against the epidemic. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Meanwhile, fake news and camuvideos were produced, sitting there, close to you, Lajos Korózs, and the Camuvide crew had already stood up in the spring to discredit the government's defence policy and keep making false news. There is such a huge competition, I feel, here on the left, who can tell us more false news: Timea Szabó, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev, Péter Jakab? Who can tell us more false news about defense? Well, Congressman, this is a very, very sad competition, but you have won in this: your leader and the wife of your leader won this fake news contest, where people's lives are in particular at risk, and the success of defense is at risk by spreading news like eight out of ten tests paid, which was told by your party president's wife. They're breaking news, and your health politician has organized a press conference that we've run out of ventilators at Korányi or St. Laszlo's Hospital. It's also a lie, and the hospitals involved and the wallet have both denied that any of this would be true. With these news, you are endangering the protection against the epidemic. They always act like they want to attack the government, and they may want to, but in the end they're always attacking the medical staff, in the end they're always attacking the CDCs, and in the end they're always attacking the work of all the co-workers in the defense, because you think in a big voice you're attacking the government. But, Congressman, you are attacking them, as your party partner, Congressman Varga, has done with regard to the Chief of Staff and other experts involved in defence. You are attacking precisely the employees that this country needs most right now. This bill, as we have said, is about the experience of the past period, so that it is simpler and quicker to manage, so that it is easier to control regulatory quarantine. And, yes, the fine is a deterrent, it is important to increase, and we would have expected your votes to make it easier for the authorities, so that fewer people break the official quarantine and its rules. It is very important that these restrictions come into force thanks to the experience of recent weeks and months, and it is very important that this law contributes to our effective and successful defence, and that you try to withdraw from the defence again, I think it is outrageous and shameful for the whole left and for the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik.
u2020-10-26-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, here on Monday we debated this law for late hours, and the opposition also said the concerns that they had just heard, but unfortunately, a meaningful response did not come to its attention. It is okay and can be supported if, in an epidemiological situation, the government takes disease control measures to slow down the spread of the epidemic, make everyday life of citizens living in Hungary safe, and sooner or later we will be able to overcome this epidemiological situation. [[12.40]] But I told you on Monday, and I can now confirm that within the framework of this epidemiological measure, it is very difficult to imagine these arcade concessions, the arcades where the devil's Bible is played, and not an epidemiological defense. If you take this out, I think most of it, 99 percent of it, is even eligible. The opposition raised the main fact that they wanted to fine people. Indeed, those who seriously violate the part of the epidemiological measures that concerns the official quarantine, so if your home, your home, the home that you have been quarantined leave, it is indeed a serious offense. But it is as serious a misdemeanor if the quarantiner does not place the official quarantine order sent by e-mail or that little red paper, a note, into his window. There are a lot of life situations in Hungary today that are quite common, quite dense, such as Aunt Mariska in Kővásőőrs, who doesn't even have the Internet, even a telephone network, one is that they can't send it electronically; if she does have e-mail access, she's sure she won't be able to print it, she won't even know it needs to be printed, and she certainly doesn't need to put it in her window. The current legislation and regulation serves to ensure that if Aunt Mariska does not publish it five times in spite of a request that she does not even know what to put out, she can be fined up to a maximum of HUF 600 thousand. The use of the mask is another issue. I am a football fan, the essence of the epidemiological measures is to minimise the number of contacts and infected, but in my opinion, it is very difficult to fit into an epidemiological measure when people were on top of each other at a 15 grand football game. Let's not even talk about a foot and a half if it's been kept. Let's not mention the mask again. I do not think that there is a virologist or epidemiological expert working in Hungary today who is proposing that we allow these events to take place in this way. I'm not saying we don't ban sports events from visiting, but we need to regulate them more strongly, that's for sure. Some measures also serve to protect the elderly. Here in March-April, and even in today's speeches, we have heard the importance and responsibility of those who tried to hold everyone responsible for the outbreak in the nursing home on Pest Road, the Mayor, the head of the institution, and finally almost the workers and doctors. I trust that, in the coming days, an institution that is a state-owned, residential institution, and the vast majority of the residents and workers there have passed a positive test in the last few days, and it is now a matter of paying attention to the fact that in the last few days, they are looking for those responsible with the same vehemence, the same amount of media space and the same speed, because the law applies to everyone. If Parliament adopts this law, as I have said, there is a part that can be fully supported, the removal of administrative burdens and the acceleration of administration. On Monday, I gave my own family example when my wife was quarantined because she was a close contact with a colleague who produced a positive test; but this quarantine obligation was not issued on October 7, but on October 14, with retroactive effect until October 7, and on the 16th, so the quarantine expired after two days. Now, this is not an isolated case, because if it were an individual case, then it could be said that such a case would occur, that the paper would be lost in bureaucracy, but it was recently that the parents of an elementary school student found out afterwards that the child should have been quarantined. Now comes the question, and most importantly, because the person who is quarantined may not be an infected person, but what if there is close contact, if the person is contagious, the quarantine has not been ordered, he goes to school in the same way, he infects himself, and they send him a retrospective official paper. So I believe in the Hungarian rule of law that there is no law with retroactive effect, although you have, I understand, brought me with regard to the law on defence and the service of the armed forces. If these measures, which the government has taken so far, are respected by citizens, we can slow down the spread of the epidemic and minimise the number of infected. But unfortunately, in the last few days, we've seen a huge leap, more than 3,000 infected. And when I looked at my county, Veszprém County, there was a dynamism, there was about 50-60 people, and then on Sunday morning, 217 people. I wonder how that came about. Didn't those people at that state facility get so many positive infections? But I trust that my immediate question, which will also be about this, will be answered in concrete terms, because if the Pesti-trave institution is entitled to have so many health workers released and hospitalized, we expect the same vehemency, the same determination, the same media action in a state-run, large-scale boarding facility. It is not only in your interest, but also in the interests of the citizens of this country, to obtain information that unfortunately a focal point has developed in this county, in this region. The faction's vote will be analysed in the future, as their communication will be that the opposition has not supported the epidemiological measures. But you know as well as I do that it's nothing but to push the image of concessions wrapped in the Trojan horse in relation to epidemiological measures. I have tried to believe in you in good faith and to trust you, which is why the opposition has tabled a number of amendments that would deal with these issues separately if it were an epidemiological measure, if it were an increase in medical wages, if it were to be in a package, and there was no other bad thing hidden in it that opposition representatives could not support it. It would also be in your interest, in my opinion, to vote in unity and positively on these issues. Once again, I ask you to try to listen to these anxious thoughts and take the bad parts out of this law so that it can be used. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-26-40	Thank you, Congressman Rig. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, who obviously wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2020-10-26-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for the constructive but constructive contributions made in the general debate on several occasions, in several committee meetings and here in the general debate before the plenum, and allow me to say a few sentences on critical, but fundamentally not constructive, but also destructive contributions at the end. [[12.50]] But before that, I would like to correct the issues that arise a little bit, so that we remain on the ground of factuality. The most important element of this Act laying down and amending rules on epidemiological measures in the context of the control of the coronal virus epidemic and the protection of human life and human health is to reduce the administrative burden on quarantine obligations. To avoid misunderstandings: the reduction of the administrative burden is not only clear on the official side but also on the citizen's side. Nothing has been said in this debate that would say that this will only make it easier for the authorities. The reason why we are making this amendment is that, for citizens, if they are already in such a difficult situation because of crossing a country or, for example, becoming a contact person that they have to spend longer or shorter periods in official quarantine, they can do so according to rules that can be applied as clearly as possible by law-abiding. So the administrative burden reduction occurs on both sides. There are practically two types of quarantine obligations. One is the automatic quarantine obligation for border crossings. In this case, we would also like to eliminate the specific decision option, because it is also a reduction of the administrative burden; obviously it is quite clear in the legislative environment, in which cases a person is to be quarantined because of border crossings, and when this happens, when this quarantine obligation is administered, there should be as little disruption as possible. In the case of another type of quarantine obligation, it is an individual decision, so the quarantines are individually ordered. Obviously, we cannot eliminate the individual decision, but in this case we believe that it is crucial that the rules on quarantine obligations are respected. These are specific rules for transport, travel, marking, rules for the application of quarantine software, rules for leaving a quarantine residence, rules for transport, travel or rules for access to a quarantine residence. If we are serious about what I see as the opposition is slipping, the government side is united in this regard, that we need to defend ourselves differently than we did at the first stage of the protection against the coronal virus epidemic, and that we need to protect human life and health by maintaining the country's viability, by the way, but keeping the measures adopted by the government on the proposal of the national chief doctor and the operational staff is crucial for the success of the defence. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to impose administrative fines in the context of the obligation to carry out official quarantine and even to impose more restrictive measures in this respect. We've been talking about re-routing medical personnel here. I would like to point out that, in this context, the opposition could have calmly supported the bill, because this legal institution will not be introduced in this bill, but, once again, in this context, the administrative difficulties mentioned by Mr Arató in a half sentence will be simplified and certain questions of competence resolved. So if Mr Arató really said that he would think that, in addition to giving all the recognition and financial compensation for health care workers, we should give protection, that is why the half-million-dollar allowance came in the middle of the year, and that is why we have decided to raise wages that have not been in Hungary since the change of regime, but unfortunately, rules on the transfer of resources in the context of the control of the epidemic are necessary. So, if this foundation is accepted by the opposition, then they can indeed support this bill; because it does not tighten up or make the legal institution more widely accepted, but simply designates the recipient of the powers of secondment and execution in a more logical way. Secondly, in the context of the protection against the coronal virus, we always stress that we consider this a complex issue in which, in addition to life and health protection, economic and job protection are also an important objective. It is true that in this context too, perhaps with one or two exceptions, most of our measures have not been supported, but it is nevertheless a matter of the fact that, as a result of these measures to protect and protect jobs, the latest public data show that employment has once again reached the level before the epidemic. Nevertheless, as we are in the second wave of the epidemic, and certain sectors are clearly not going to survive the epidemic in the short term, so let us say foreign tourism to give a concrete example that we will not be able to count on, so we must constantly introduce to this House the rules on the economic context of the control of the epidemic. These rules are certainly sector-specific, because it makes sense for us to be able to support targeted sectors that are most affected by the epidemic. Such a sector has also been aimed at reducing the rules related to the use of tourism, such as the SZÉP card, and to boosting domestic tourism through the use of SZÉP card in the following year, such as the rules on concessions and gambling, which would propose to support this sector, which is also affected by the crisis. What Mr Rig has said: I believe that the rules relating to quarantine are not primarily political issues, they are ordered and established by the Chief Medical Service, and these are basically professional issues. I do not see any problem in that if I was in a similar situation, it is found that a person, for example, is considered to be a contact close to a person with a coronal virus, this will certainly not happen within an hour or two after contact, since it may also occur that, for example, those who are subsequently classified as having a coronal virus will only be tested after they produce symptoms. So there's a couple of days of run-through, the nature of this thing, no one's fault, because it's only when a person can be considered a close contact, and when the authority's obligation comes to an end when it turns out he's positive. But this must be done in any way, and it is perfectly natural that quarantine rules must be established in this context. There are two things that can be done here. One of the things is that the rules start at the time when the situation comes to light, but it is not that for 14 days or even 10 days, Hungarian citizens will be quarantined in connection with whom it may be revealed in hindsight that they, thank God, avoided the virus, but much longer. So, if I understand correctly, Jobbik is suggesting that we do not do what we've done so far, that we bring down the quarantine obligation from 14 days to 10 days, but that we increase it and, if necessary, carry it over 20 days. I think that this would be unnecessary in the context of the protection of jobs and the economy. But there is such a nature of the matter, in which I would like to ask all of you for your support, and I would like to ask you to explain it wherever possible, and to consult with the Chief Medical Officer or the Chief Medical Officer in this regard. Because it is not in anyone's interest to mislead Hungarian people, but to give them all the information. Finally, in the context of critical and not constructive proposals, there is only one thing I do not understand: why is it that we bring to the House proposals for protection against Crown Virus in terms of life protection, health protection, job protection, economic protection, and there is always a reason why the opposition is clinging to it and does not vote in favour of these proposals? It doesn't matter what proposals we bring here, it doesn't matter who was right, because it was also said in the speeches that the country had created the first wave of protection rules well. So it was, then, that what the government said in the spring was the case, and what the MPs supported in the spring was right, because with this or as a result, we were able to defend ourselves effectively against the epidemic as a result of the Hungarians' cooperation. [[13.00]] Now we're back, and there's no new under the sun. We are re-introducing the rules that we need to be able to succeed in this changed situation, in the context of a changed strategy, and once again there is nothing new about the opposition side during the day. It seems to you that the government's political attack is more important than the protection against the epidemic. That's sad. This also pushed you into a political deep flight in the context of the first wave. So if it is no longer important for you to achieve a national cooperation in the control of the coronal virus, then at least keep your own political goals in mind and therefore do not oppose, but support, these measures. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-42	Thank you, Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary, for closing the debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting today. Before we continue our work, I will hand over the chair to my vice-president, István Jakab. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-10-26-43	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Once they have taken their seats, we will begin the voting procedure. In order to verify the functionality of the voting machines, a presence check will be carried out. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[It's happening. Number of people present: 152.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/13308 laying down certain rules on epidemiological measures and amending certain laws relating to epidemiological measures will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision last week, the bill is being dealt with as a matter of urgency by the Parliament. T/13308/8. T/13308/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 5. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr László György Lukács and Mr Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 112 against and 6 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the legislative committee T/13308/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 24 against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13308/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes to 23, with 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Now, at 1:05 p.m., we move on to the immediate questioning. I am ordering a two-minute technical break while my fellow Members quietly leave the Chamber. Thank you. [[Several Members are leaving the room. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to please take their seats, and we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-10-26-44	Thank you, Mr President, we will wait for Viktor Orbán.
u2020-10-26-45	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP... excuse me, I ask for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos has given her the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-10-26-46	Thank you very much. We'll wait for Minister Kasler.
u2020-10-26-47	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos has given her the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-10-26-48	With all due respect, yes.
u2020-10-26-49	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-50	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We can see that the number of people infected with Covid has increased rapidly over the last few weeks or days. According to Sunday's devastating data, the number of new registered infected patients increased by about 3149 a day. If you look at the number of cases in my county in Veszprém County, it's also a big leap, with 217 new infected registered in one day. In Veszprém County, there were, on average, 50-60 new infected people in recent years. A week ago, I received news, and based on this, I turned to the EMMI with a written question. In Veszprém County, there is a large number of residential institutions, which are state-owned and operated by SZGYF, this is the Darvastó Occupational Institute, where 280 patients are provided within an institution, with 12 persons in one room. I got the news two days ago that there was a Covid outbreak, and there were more Covid infected. My first question is that you knew about this. If they can, how many infected are inside the facility right now? What is the number of employees who are infected, what is the number of people in custody who are infected, what is the status of contact research, and how do they try to replace the outdated workers? If you cannot answer these questions, I will help you, Madam Secretary, but I trust that if you can find out in seconds who is responsible and how many infected there are, this should not be a problem for a state-owned institution. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-26-51	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-52	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Yes, we didn't sleep Sleeping Beauty dream this weekend either, so everyone noticed, I think we can say that the number of infected people has unfortunately increased not only in Hungary but also throughout Europe and even worldwide at the end of the last week. I do not see any tendency here, however, that this will always be the case from now on, since the number of people infected has already been reduced today, and we think that we should look at it as a whole, from the first wave of the virus, to see where we stand on the number of people infected. The Government of Hungary is committed to continuing to take all measures to prevent the introduction and spread of the virus, to maintain an adequate level of epidemiological preparedness and to reduce the number of diseases and deaths during the second wave period. These measures are, of course, closely monitored in nursing homes, monitored in primary schools and everywhere where larger masses gather on a daily basis. I am very confident that, in addition to the obvious responsibility of the government for how the numbers and the defence themselves are developing, I think that individual responsibility has a key role to play in the control of the epidemic, so that, of course, the responsibility of caregivers of nursing homes or the maintenance of nursing homes and not only of government but also of municipal maintenance can be monitored in this regard. I'm not aware, by the way, that there's an epidemiology center there right now this weekend. Of course, we will look into it, and we will take and enforce all necessary epidemiological measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-53	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In about ten seconds, he spoke about a very important issue that I wanted to be supported by precise numbers. I'll try to pass on the information. The tests started on Thursday and Friday after my written question. The first information is 102 out of 120 tests are positive. It's devastating! If that's true, and that's true, it's devastating. It's even more devastating that they don't know a state institution is like this. They're still testing. I hope that the epidemiological measures that have been taken during the Pesti Travel Institute will be used in the same way here, and that what has been made public there and has been published to it, will also be done in this case, as citizens have a right to know what is going on in these institutions. It's the only way to stop the epidemic from spreading. I look forward to your new reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-26-55	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-10-26-56	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out once again that, as everywhere, of course, in the nursing home you mentioned. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: It's not an old home!]] it will happen, and the epidemiological measure that should be taken in this case will continue to take place. There must be obviously testing, contact research, and accordingly there will be numbers within days that you have been curious about in your question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-57	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. In response to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Prime Minister, he authorised the Prime Minister to act. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally?
u2020-10-26-58	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-10-26-59	I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. More support for the municipalities! It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-10-26-60	I'll take it.
u2020-10-26-61	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, During the year since the municipal elections, I asked a number of questions here in the Parliament, including an immediate question regarding the funding and support of the municipalities, especially my home town, Miskolc. It was interesting to look back at these questions. I would like to quote the answers I received. On 2 December 2019 I asked here at the National Assembly about the support of local public transport, otherwise Tamás Schanda in the Chamber answered my question that the system of state aid would remain in this respect, which, by the way, affects my home town, Miskolc, with HUF 500 million. He replied:. The fact is that, as I said in my previous speech, it is very important for the government to support the municipalities in the performance of their tasks related to local community transport, and the same support that we have given so far, will continue to be given. That's what the Secretary of State said, literally. And now it is clear from the answer to a written question by my fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, that this form of support will not remain in the future, that local authorities will not receive state aid for the tasks of local community transport, and that this is supported by a third to one third of us to the west, so that the state will participate in at least one third in favour of people and municipalities. What about this, Minister? On 24 February 2020, together with Sándor Szabó, we asked about the rules of business tax, the National Competitiveness Council's proposal at that time triggered many debates. Mihály Varga calmed us down, and now we hear that here, too, as the sword of Damocles, the authorities may be affected by withdrawal. I'm not saying that the HUF 450 million payment of the car tax from the Miskolc budget has been hijacked and the car tax has been deducted from all municipalities. [[13.20]] More support for the municipalities, Minister. Why am I taking this away from the municipalities, and what further changes are there for the municipalities? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-10-26-63	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-10-26-64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, it is understandable that you, as a representative of Miskolc, are speaking in favour of grants from Miskolc, or municipal aid, but you have completely ignored it in your speech, or at least you have not indicated that what is happening here is not happening in a normal management year, because in the last ten years, no one has been able to accuse the government that what was included in a budget as a benefit in the chapter of the municipalities would not have given it every year. In fact, we have done more than that, because due to the growth of the economy, local authorities' sales of business tax have increased by 50 percent over the last five years, which provides a very significant additional source for all municipalities. Miskolc, I think, is a winner even more than 50 percent. Not to mention that in the first cycle after 2010, the government took over a debt of HUF 1400 billion from the municipalities. So I think that accusing the government of anti-government is very difficult. Compared to this, in a critical year, such as the coronal virus epidemic in Europe as well as in Hungary, we have adopted a budget, the budget of 21, which will increase the support of local authorities next year, which is 16 percent higher than that included in this year's budget. In view of all of this, I do not dispute that the local governments have also lost revenue in the form of car tax revenue, but overall, I believe that the losses that the State has lost due to the economic consequences have been passed on to the municipalities only to the least extent possible. We are still open to consultation and negotiation with local authorities, and it is of common interest that the economic situation of the country as a whole and the municipalities in it as a result of the coronal virus epidemic should be as low as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-65	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-66	Dear Minister, All over the world, governments move from less important areas to the frontline of defence during this period in order to reduce the negative social and economic impact of this epidemic and to prepare health for protection. But the front lines of defense are the municipalities. So what I am saying is that you are drawing funds from the front line, and in terms of car taxation and support for local public transport, these are decisions. Your answers show that these resources will no longer be returned after the outbreak. That's not acceptable. Take these decisions back. I claim that these resources will be absent from people's everyday life, from potholery, from the operation of municipal companies, from investments, but also from the financing of kindergartens. They can offer less services of lower quality during a difficult period of time, or they can be forced to increase fees. This is unacceptable, Minister, and that is why these proposals are withdrawn. I'm telling you, don't pull ammunition from the front line of defense. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-10-26-67	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-10-26-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I sincerely hope that, with regard to the resources to be allocated to local authorities, the withdrawal of the 16 percent increase in next year's budget does not have to be understood by your words, your proposal. I think it should be appreciated that the government provides additional resources to municipalities in this situation. We do not agree that only municipalities are on the front line; healthcare is on the front line, and the economy as a whole is on the front line. For a voter in Miskolc, it is secondary to the fact that the municipality provides resources for defence, or the Hungarian state provides resources. The resources that went to the region of Miskolc and to the recovery of the economy make it possible for jobs to remain, and the increase in the number of employees in Hungary to remain in the difficult period, and this has been achieved on the basis of the data of recent months. I would also like to point out that the government has not taken anything from the kindergarten budget, despite the fact that the kindergartens were closed for two months. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos has given her the right to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary! The government broke up with many years of practice at the beginning of this year, as the number of people in social care, including nursing home, had previously been published, and the data were updated monthly on a regular website. Since January, however, there has been no picture, no sound, and today, opening on this website, we find an Arrow Cross, and until this morning, a cloud of words formed an Arrow Cross. There is no other meaningful data on this website. The last public record shows that there could be serious problems, as in April 2018, some 28,000 people, elderly people, people with disabilities, psychiatric and addicts, were waiting for accommodation, and the last data published at the end of 2019, which concerned only the elderly, was 32 thousand names on the waiting list. That is, there has been a drastic increase in this area over a year and a half, and it is also a fact that from this experienced growth rate you have concluded that you do not have to disclose this data, because neither on this website nor on any specific press inquiry or other interest has the Ministry stated what has happened. In all, the answer was that an EU project concerning the renewal of the website was not possible because of a sound project called the renewal of the methodological and information systems of the social sector; I note that in any other way, not only on the website. So my question to the Secretary of State is how many people are waiting now and say that I would expect data from September, it would not be fair in October, September 2020 for an elderly home in Hungary, why they do not want to communicate this data, and how many new elderly people have you created in the past period. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-10-26-71	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me begin by rejecting your comment on the authoritarian symbol. There's definitely no such sign on the website. [[György Balla: That's the Jobbik you're allied with!]] I would like to note that the Hungarian Government is constantly taking into account the state tasks arising from social care. As regards the development of services, our primary goal is to allow vulnerable people, those in need, to live as long as possible in their own homes, so the most important thing for us is to support those in need of help primarily in their usual environment, so in their home. The provision of conditions for social care is the responsibility of both the central bodies of the State and local authorities, while church and non-state maintainers also play a role in the operation of these services. In August 2019, according to a poll conducted among the adult population, the majority of respondents would like to receive the necessary support in their living environment. 74 percent of respondents prefer services provided in the context of home assistance provided by the social care system, and 73 percent prefer to improve access to nursing services provided under the healthcare system. The amendment of the Social Administration and Benefits Act adopted in 2017 will help to expand services responding to local needs, according to which the capacity building of municipalities will automatically be included in the financing system in the event of increased demand. From 1 January 2020, the current amendment established the legal basis for a home for elderly people who are not entitled to stay at home on the basis of their care needs. The newly created institutions will fully increase the number of seats that can be filled. The 2021-27... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I'll continue from here. Thank you.
u2020-10-26-73	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-74	Thank you very much. In the two minutes, I couldn't give you one piece of data I asked you. So the question is, how many people are waiting for a nursing home in Hungary today. It's a specific number, probably a number of tens of thousands, which I expect from you, Madam Secretary. But I also asked how much capacity we are counting today, so how many seats there are in Hungary today. [[13.30]] I am asking you this because I am now citing the data of the KSH: between 95 and 2006, it has expanded by more than half in 12 years, and the space has increased by 50 percent. Then, in the next 12 years, until 2018 only 10 percent, so that in this first year the development of EU money between 2007 and 2010, and last year, a quarter-century trend broke, and for the first time, the parentheses on your website: where, of course, we rescued the Arrow Cross and filed a complaint, last year the capacity fell by five hundred. It's never happened for 25 years. So I ask you: what are the specific figures, Madam Secretary? Thank you.
u2020-10-26-75	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-10-26-76	Thank you for the floor. With great respect, I would like to ask the Member not to try to deceive people in order to enforce his party political interests. The use of information for statistical purposes previously published on the social sector portal for the publication of the number of persons applying for the use of social services is not intended to mislead citizens. And to answer your question in particular, in the last ten years, a 7.2 percent improvement has been made in terms of housing for the elderly. In October 2020, a total of 58 810 people are available for the provision of residential care for the elderly. The figures show that there are now 4248 seats more than in 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-77	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Pálinka or food on the table?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-10-26-78	I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-10-26-79	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the Government's intention? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos has given her the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Minister personally for an answer? [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-26-80	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I recently spoke on the grounds of general medical practice, and at that time we talked about the fact that there is little general medical practice funding, as is well known, or at least many knew, between 1.5 and 2 million forints per month. From this, the assistant, the cleaner's wages and other expenses will remain the remainder for the general practitioners. Recently, Parliament was able to vote on the increase in medical wages, including by this law, and we were promised that these certain medical practices and related funding would soon be put in order. By the way, over the past period, there have been a variety of news in the press, a variety of forward-looking or less forward-looking news. There have also been reports of nationalization of practices, the need for general practitioners to go to practice communities. It is well known that there are more than two hundred permanently unfilled GP practices, and this is understood in conjunction with pediatric practice. Some of them haven't been loaded in over ten years. We also know that, so to speak, the general medical community is getting old, so we should do everything we can to ensure that there are no unpopulated areas left. My question is, what is the reason why the government sees the solution in creating or not creating practice communities, but in strengthening or even making it mandatory, and that it is free for the general practitioners to choose between the practice and the practice community. I'm asking you this because I've been contacted by a number of GPs and a group of GPs to ask you this question. Thank you very much for your answer.
u2020-10-26-81	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Government of Hungary aims to ensure equal access to basic services, public services and, of course, general medical services, regardless of where the country lives. To this end, I think that we have taken extremely wide-ranging measures over the last ten years to improve the situation that the Member mentioned, so that those general medical practices that are currently not loaded are also filled.In comparison to 2010, 76 percent more money is provided for the support of GPs and GPs. Every year from 2015 to 18, the support of general medical practices increased by HUF 130-130 thousand per month, and now the remuneration is increased by HUF 520,000 per month. The amount spent on basic dental care has also been increasing since 2010. It was 22 billion forints at the time, nearly 1.5 times this year, 33 billion forints. In 2019, a one and a half million forints were paid for public-funded dental services and specializations every 30 hours. As of 1 January 2020, public-funded dental fund or specialist care providers received a fee of HUF 380 thousand per month. This represents an extra HUF 250,000 per month for basic care services compared to the current support, and an additional HUF 380,000 per month for dental services, who have not received a similar allowance so far. If we look at how average revenues have evolved compared to 2010, we see that in 2010 the average revenue of a general practice was HUF 867 570, 2020. I-VI. between 1 634 450 forints. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-83	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-84	Thank you very much for the information, although that is not what I asked, but that it is mandatory to go to practice communities for general practitioners or not. This is the most important issue that concerns them, and you know that there are many general practitioners in Hungary who have continued their activities as entrepreneurs since the early 1990s. Today's value of a practice law ranges from six to ten million forints. If GPs have to go into a practice community, do they have to keep the practice in their possession, or if they don't, will someone reimburse them for the purchase price they have paid for it, or the amount they have invested in the establishment of the practice? There are about 7,000 general practitioners in Hungary, and if the average value of a practice is, say, six million forints, then this amount will be available in the budget and will the government pay it? Thank you very much.
u2020-10-26-85	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-86	As I mentioned, we have provided a great deal of support to GP practitioners and dentists that we wanted to target as many as possible. We have not only provided domestic budget support, but also EU funds. Our programmes announced in 2019 were also very successful, so the government decided to reopen certain programs, when we were going to provide HUF 2 billion for medical equipment, HUF 3 billion for medical services and HUF 2 billion for medical care. I think that these measures will all serve the purpose of ensuring that as many GP practices as possible are filled in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-87	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-10-26-88	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-10-26-89	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-26-90	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear House, The epidemic shows quite two faces when we observe trends in spring and autumn. In the summer, a country felt that we might have gotten away with it, and there is time to prepare for autumn, and in the event of a second wave, we will know exactly what to do, so that the country will escape the epidemic with as little loss as possible, whether in terms of the health situation or in terms of the state of the economy. [[13.40]] Unfortunately, the epidemic shows its brutal face in Hungary in the fall: the numbers are more alarming every day. The rise that can be observed even in case numbers is quite amazing. But what's more tragic is the unexpected and harsh rise in mortality data. I know, because it has already been discussed in previous debates, even at this meeting, with regard to the comments before the agenda, that the government likes to view these figures by looking at the situation in combination with the spring and autumn. Once this epidemic is over, these summation numbers will certainly be useful for analysis. But if we're going to determine what we're doing here and now, we're going to have to start with the latest trends. The European figures, the European comparative figures, are tragic, and Hungary is the fifth worst in Europe in terms of the number of deaths per 100,000 in the last 14 days. In this context, too, we are failing in relation to another number: if we look at the number of tests carried out, also in the light of the most recent figures per 100,000 people, then we also see that only four countries in Hungary are carrying out fewer tests per 100,000 inhabitants. Minister, what is the reason for this is that you are stubbornly refusing to test the country's population? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-10-26-91	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-10-26-92	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the case of mortality data on the epidemic, I welcome the fair approach that it is worth looking at the numbers as a whole. I also accept that you can take a shorter period, a week or two weeks, but I suggest you do the same in the case of tests. If you're looking at testing the last five days, it's one of the taller ones, because the number of tests has risen radically in the last five days. It's obviously related to the way the epidemic is spreading. We can say that Hungarian health care is prepared to provide health care of the highest quality known today, even if current trends continue. Moreover, of course, the State has a responsibility, especially to ensure that no one is left unattended, and secondly, we all have the responsibility to try to comply with the epidemiological rules that the Parliament and the Government have made as much as possible. This is difficult, however, but if we can do this, the country can be maintained at the same time and the damage caused by the epidemic can be mitigated in human health and otherwise in the economy. Of course, we are pleased that opposition representatives and parties make positive proposals, and we have been open to them, and we will continue to be open to them. I would like to add that health protection is basically a professional issue where the government's task is to provide all the necessary tools. We have done this in the past, and we will continue to do so. We have said many times before that we are testing according to the WHO protocol, and we will continue to test accordingly. As the infection is spreading, the numbers will increase, so the test numbers will increase. I wish they were as low as they were in the spring for a reason, because there was very little infection in Hungary at that time! However, if you look at the spread, Hungary can be highlighted, but it doesn't make much sense, there is a huge increase in the number of infected people everywhere, and unfortunately, the number of deaths is also high. We hope that the Hungarian health care will be able to manage this situation effectively later, but the conditions have been added to this. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-26-93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-94	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Muller Cecília himself said that people on ventilators don't have to think about the worst, because 50 percent of them survive this stage. We can look at it from another direction: 50 percent of them die. So it is clear that the aim should be to get as few people on the ventilators as possible, and this is not the direction of keeping one of Europe's most rigorous testing rules, i.e. for free testing, but the direction, Minister, is to move towards Slovak behaviour, where it is known that the whole country will be tested, precisely because, as you have acknowledged, the numbers are brutally deteriorating. We don't want Hungarians getting on a ventilator with a mass, because if we start from the words of the Chief Medical Officer, unfortunately, 50 percent of them have to face up to the worst. Thank you.
u2020-10-26-95	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-10-26-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, If you look at the Slovak numbers, they are no better than Hungarian. So I have to say, we'll see how the Slovaks will test you. Obviously, the appearance of rapid tests, antigen tests, facilitates testing, but there is no evidence of the relationship between the effectiveness of protection and the number of tests in itself today. Such statements were made during the spring period, while we were testing little in Hungary and then everyone agreed, even now in your speech that Hungary was one of the most effective defence countries in the spring. It also shows that this direct link does not exist. There is a link that vaccination should be obtained as soon as possible. Hungary is one of the Member States of the European Union that has committed potential Covid vaccines to research in Oxford, so if AstraZeneca succeeds in developing a vaccine, Hungary is among the first to obtain 6.5 million doses of vaccine. We are informed in all directions, and we have also purchased or are in the process of purchasing medicines that can relieve the symptoms of the disease. In addition, free beds are provided in the health care sector, and many times the current number of infections will also provide care for everyone. These are the good news, and, of course, the epidemic as a whole is bad news for everyone, and we hope to get it over with as soon as possible. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-26-97	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What does the government do and what does the Left do to help the troubled sectors? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We've been forced to live with the corona virus for almost a year, and we've been fighting it for almost a year. This virus is devastating everywhere, and we can see from last week's data that the situation is deteriorating in Europe and in the rest of the world, and unfortunately Hungary is no exception. For this reason, it was essential to prepare the health care system for the fight against the virus in the spring, even if the left-wing opposition did not understand it and did not help, but instead chose to prevent protection. In view of the EU's infection data, Hungary is currently in the middle field. But numbers or no numbers, every lost human life is a painful loss. It is important that we defend ourselves during this period in such a way that Hungary works. According to the government's proposal, the SZÉP card rules for this year will be extended until 30 June 2021, thus supporting businesses, domestic tourism and employees. We are looking at protecting jobs, but the left would be raising taxes in the capital, putting businesses and jobs at risk. The effects of this can be more devastating than the crisis itself. While the people and the economy needed help, Christmas came up with a two-bit left-wing recipe known since Gyurcsány: tax increase, austerity and debt. And even if that doesn't work, there's another recipe: a tax increase, a austerity and a debt. This is also sad because there is no need to go too far for good examples of foreign cities: both in Vienna and Prague, they encourage public restaurant consumption and helped the sector. The municipalities of Berlin and Rome have announced a large amount of aid to support the re-launch of culture and economic life. On the basis of what has been said, I ask the Secretary of State: how can companies in distress be helped?
u2020-10-26-99	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-26-100	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The left has shown many times that they cannot be expected in a crisis. During the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the leftist did not take any steps to protect people and jobs, the economy, and even worse: wherever they could, they prevented protection. We remember the Fake news, the fake news, the Kamuvideos that were actively distributed by left-wing representatives, thus endangering the successful control of the epidemic. [[13.50]] In addition, restrictions were introduced in the first wave of the epidemic in several settlements with left-wing leadership: salaries were reduced, people were sent away, and instead of helping people and companies, they were burdened with newer and more. And indeed, right now, the economy of Budapest would be ruined by the opposition leadership of the capital city. A special tax would be introduced, so that the sectors that were already in trouble as a result of the epidemic would not only not help but bring them into a much bigger crisis, even more difficult ones. The fact is that if the special tax is introduced, a significant part of the companies subject to the extra burden can even eliminate their activities in Budapest, and this is a serious threat. Honourable Congressman, It also shows that the left is pursuing the same failed policy that we have already learned during their disastrous governance before 2010. Still, more and more burdens were placed on people's shoulders instead of helping them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-101	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-102	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite clear that this crisis will end when there is a vaccine available, so that we can prevent the spread of the virus and its direct impact on people. However, until this happens and it is known in advance when it will happen, everything must be done to protect people's lives on the one hand, and thus, obviously, the preparation of health institutions took place in the spring, as I mentioned; on the other hand, it must help both people and economic operators to survive this and to thrive in everyday life. So, in addition to doing everything to boost the economy, the left-wing authorities didn't actually do anything but cutbacks, and they claim that the government is simply taking the funds away from them, although if we remember what Minister said, the point was that municipal resources have doubled in many cases compared to a few years ago. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We came out of the crisis together after 2010, and now we will succeed again. The national-citizen government has already demonstrated that it can create jobs. Between 2010 and 2020, the employment rate increased from 54 per cent to 70 per cent and the unemployment rate fell from 12 per cent in 2010 to 3.3 per cent. Thus, the government does not impose various special taxes on people, nor does it cause trouble for sectors that are already at risk, as this is the idea of the left. We are on the side of economic protection and the Hungarian people. The first results of this are already visible, since the number of registered unemployed has been decreasing since mid-June. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-105	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Harrach, representative of the KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what wage increases are being made in health care? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-106	Dear Minister, The crown epidemic has been the biggest challenge for Hungarian health care in recent decades. We were pleased that health workers met this challenge. This was appreciated not only by us Hungarian citizens, but also by the government. This is what he drew attention to, and he is the ministerial author of the Act on Health Service Service, who mentioned the knowledge and commitment of the great doctors of the past as an inheritance. The recognition of the government was also a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000. But, of course, at this stage of the epidemic, there is also a need for measures that recognise health care workers, especially doctors, now. When we look at the government's health policy, we must say that it focused on prevention and, of course, on the security of patient care. We should also mention an increase in health expenditure. In 2009, budget support amounted to HUF 1300 billion, and the budget of the budget will be HUF 2115 billion. Another wage increase should also be mentioned: in November this year the government will increase the salary of nurses and workers by 20 percent. This is the third part of the 72 percent wage increase. Dear Minister, The government is, of course, counting on health workers to survive during the second wave, and, as we have heard in several news reports, this is also reflected in the wage increase. I am asking Minister what specific wage increases are being made in health care.
u2020-10-26-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-10-26-108	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, the increase in medical and professional wages, as you mentioned, started in 18 with a decision on a higher rate of wage increase than before, a worker's wage increase, and this was that the government, on the proposal of the EMMI, agreed to increase the wages of the workers in health care by more than all the seven parliamentary periods left behind. So there has never been a cycle since 1990, anyone has been in government in Hungary, when in four steps, but in four years, there can be a total 72 percent increase in professional wages in Hungary. 8, 14, and now by November 1st, 20, and then by January 1st, 22nd, an additional 30 percent increase will result in an average of two and a half times the salary of a nurse in 2022. Make no mistake. We still don't think he's gonna make it to the Canaan. Wages were very low, but it should be seen that such an increase has never taken place in Hungary before. As regards the increase in medical wages: a fine example of the fact that a professional consensus, although at times it seems that it cannot be established at the National Assembly, can be created on exceptional occasions, after the government has accepted the bill of wages of the Medical Chamber, and even from the three tables that the Medical Chamber has made available to the Government, it has accepted the most generous one with the highest increase, so it will accordingly increase significantly from 1 January 2021 to the basic fee of doctors. This means that after 41 years of employment, a doctor will earn almost 1 million 700 thousand forints, but at the beginning it will be about 500 thousand forints, so even in the case of a beginner doctor, this will be the basic wage. This will change to HUF 2 million 142 thousand for 41 years of service in 22 and will be HUF 620,000 even at the beginning. From 1 January 23, there will be nearly 2 million 400 thousand forints for a 41-year-old doctor and practical [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] will reach 700,000 forints at the beginning of time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-109	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-110	Dear Minister, It was nice to hear those numbers. Undoubtedly, the Health Service Service Act opens a new chapter in the history of Hungarian medicine. Every measure of the law is designed to ensure the safety of patient care. This is not about structural transformation of health care or funding the system, it is about the man, the man who is at the patient's disposal either as a doctor or as a worker or as a nurse. It is the duty of society and, accordingly, the government and Parliament to support these people in such a way that we can somehow recognise their work. It was therefore a good decision to present the government and to support Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2020-10-26-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-10-26-112	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, We believe that a framework law sets out the new medical service relationship, which gives us the opportunity, in consultation with the Medical Chamber, to set out clear frameworks for any remaining disputes. That is why we have accepted the proposal of the Medical Chamber, almost in textual terms, which eliminates gratuity money and makes its acceptance a criminal offence. We believe that three decades after the change in the system, we are taking a big step towards ensuring clean health conditions and that public health is indeed a public health system, because, let us be honest, since the change in the system, it has been the practice that many people have actually had to pay for public health care, especially in the event of a major intervention or surgery. We can avoid and even exclude this; doctors will be paid by the state, and they will be able to obtain a decent wage, while the gratuity money can be banned, punished and eliminated at the same time. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-113	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, an independent Member, would be invited to speak, but he is not in the Chamber, so we will continue our work. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Csányi, Member of the Jobbik Group, who wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: å How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[On Tamás Csányi's mark:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-114	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Last year, we had a brief discussion with our colleague on the wage increase of domestic workers, and it seems that we should speak again this year. There are a number of bitter comments in social media about how police officers who have been decommissioned or who are about to be disarmed feel they have been deceived, not what you have promised them. The main problem is the lack of wage increases and the abolition of early retirement pensions for domestic workers. In February, you spoke to the press about a 10 percent increase in wages, but there may be some confusion in the force, because the police I asked me do not remember such a increase in wages, and they even confirmed the opposite: they have not touched their salaries in years. You are well aware that the law enforcement career model does not provide sufficient interest in the profession without raising the salary base. In order to increase wages, the salary base should be increased, which would have been foreseen by the EPP Jobbik last year and this year in the central budget. For many years, 38 650 HUF of the salary fund was intended for 50,000 HUF this year, and you did not support it. Can we find out why? We also know that both you and I have experienced a mass wave of disarmament in the police force in recent years, and that this process could only have been stopped because of the restrictive measures imposed on Covid-19. Paying overtime would also be a priority in order to maintain the stock and make the track more attractive. We used a HUF 3 billion amendment motion for this budget, but it was not important enough for you to support it. I also ask the Secretary of State why. And I would also like to know, Mr State Secretary, what is the situation with regard to clothing money, because there are serious questions in the stock. Will you keep the clothes, use them and the way they've done so far? I would also ask you to respond to the increase in the cafeteria, as this was also belled, but it does not seem to have been done either. And I'm asking you to give me specifics, because there are promises in the cops' attic. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-26-115	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-26-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Public security and the protection of public order are extremely important, and I think we all know that, and that, over the last ten years, the police have achieved enormous results under the leadership of the civilian government, in my opinion, it is undisputed, as crime statistics in all sectors have shown a very significant decrease of 40-50 percent in recent years. Obviously, one of the conditions for this was the availability of a well-trained and well-motivated police force. The police career is built on three pillars. A five-year wage development programme was launched in 2015, the last phase of which was implemented in 2019. As of 2016, a new salary element has been included in the system, the so-called performance allocation, with 8 billion in 2016 and 12 billion in 2017 per year by the government. The second element was the expansion of housing subsidies and the introduction of health damage care as a third pillar. In December 2019 the police received a single lump sum allowance of HUF 500 000 gross. This was a net grant of HUF 332 500 in a professional domestic stock of 56,660. The measures resulted in an increase of 10 per cent compared to the salary on 1 January 2019, and in 2020 the 10-percent income supplement will also be introduced as a new form of benefit, which will be governed by a ministerial decree. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-117	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-118	Dear Secretary of State, The problem with what you said is that you drink wine and preach water on this issue. Last week, your boss, Viktor Orbán, here in Parliament, found that there is zero tolerance for corruption, while his immediate environment is growing in a way that transcends human imagination, and we do not talk about the two stains of Hungarian parliamentarianism, György Simonka and István Happy, who are slowly going to have paperwork on the fact that they have committed economic crimes, yet they are sitting here in the House. This is outrageous, as it is outrageous, Mr. Secretary of State, that a junior officer's salary is barely worth 150 thousand forints net, while a cashier can bring home about 200 thousand forints net at a multinational company. So, Secretary of State, less theft, more government, less stubbornness, more attention, because a lot of people stayed on the side of the road. Prosperity and freedom are due to all Hungarians, Mr. Secretary of State, even to the police. Please start working on this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-26-119	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-26-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I understand you're having a hard time putting up with the election defeat. [[Tamás Csányi: I didn't get it!]] and the announced big election victory, the two-thirds, failed to break down, so they're trying to sweep everything together in a way that has nothing to do with reality; that's the case with police salaries, and everything you've listed here. The Minister of the Interior, as I have just begun to say, has increased the professional bonus rate for deputy posts in order to compensate for the effects of the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, so it is guaranteed that the monthly gross HUF 210 600 is the fund from which the income starts in the case of deputy posts and the additional allowances are added. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-121	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have already exceeded the first hour of immediate questioning in time. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Do not the right hand know what the left hand does? It's an address. Because of his absence, Minister Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-26-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, On 11 September, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced at Kossuth Radio that, in view of the extraordinary situation, everyone who requests this year can receive free flu vaccination. The Prime Minister's statement that everyone can get free flu shots is simply not true, and you know it. Those who are able to check in before everyone else, those who can be faster than others, or have connections that help them get to the front of the line, or even that is not enough. We are very happy that Viktor Orbán was among the first to receive the vaccine, but this does not help those who went to the pharmacy, to the general practitioners, and asked for it, even if they paid money, because if he had gone to the pharmacy, he would have paid for the vaccine, but they could not have obtained this vaccine. [[14.10]] We know very well that there are two types, the three-component and the four-component. The four-component can be given to children under the age of three, those with chronic diseases. These were confiscated by you. I got a letter from someone whose home doctor had already prescribed it, and it was in the cloud that he could replace it at the pharmacy because he was chronically ill, and he didn't get it, because the apothecary said they were waiting for a response from the operational tribe that he, as a chronic patient, could receive that vaccine. You know, when we are accused of producing false news, your prime minister in the public radio makes statements that today everyone in Hungary has access to this vaccine, so that they know that there are not as many vaccines available in Hungary as citizens could now request in this situation. In addition, Minister Gulyás said that if there is a demand for it, we will produce it. That's the next lie. You know very well in the profession that you can't just make it because six months, a year [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This vaccine should be produced. When do you stop making irresponsible statements and lying? Will there be enough vaccine, or won't there be? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-10-26-123	Congresswoman, thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-26-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When you make false accusations in videos when you spread a mass of false facts on Facebook, it is very strange, cynical and repulsive when you accuse the government or any member of the government or any government politician when we announce that influenza vaccination is provided to everyone in this country free of charge. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Don't say it's not true. The flu vaccine season starts now, and then when it runs out and everyone gets the vaccine, you have to respond to that. The introduction of vaccination to ensure that it is available to all and that it is not determined by its financial means that a person is vaccinated, so it is essential that, with appropriate logistics, the vaccine is delivered to all points, general practitioners, occupational health care providers, who are involved in this vaccination, the logistics of this, and the delivery of this. The necessary amount of vaccine is available, these vaccines have been purchased by the government and will be assured that everyone who requires it will receive it. We hope that people will take advantage of the example that the Prime Minister has shown that the vaccine has been given to himself, that everyone, not only is at risk, but everyone in this country should be vaccinated against the flu. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-125	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman in a minute. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. One million 300 thousand of the three-component vaccines are available, 100,000 of the four-components have been seized. True, we can see that in recent years around half of the Hungarian population has been used, but they did well to call on everyone who knows, especially those who suffer from chronic diseases or those who are educating children, to submit them. But, Secretary of State, if more than half of the population now chooses to file it or to file it, then you are here to say that if five million citizens say that they want to submit it to you in any way in the next month or two months, then there will be five million vaccines. Who are you to say that? Everyone knows that there isn't one in the whole world, because it can't be obtained, because it's the process of ordering for many years, it's written down by the profession itself. If we want to produce it, it's more than six months to produce the vaccine; it's usually produced six months before the flu. Mr. Secretary, who are you to say that if half the population wants to be vaccinated, there will be a vaccine? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-10-26-127	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-26-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Influenza vaccination is a recurring opportunity every year. In fact, this year we are giving people the opportunity to inject themselves against the flu free of charge. The vaccine must have a speed during which the vaccine can be given. At the moment, more than twice the vaccination last year is available and the required quantity remains available in the coming period. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. What about the exchange rate gains? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-26-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-10-26-131	Excuse me for a moment, Congressman. I would like to inform the Member that, due to the absence of the President of the National Bank, he has authorised Vice-President Barnabas Virág to respond. I'm asking you to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-10-26-132	Thank you very much, of course, yes.
u2020-10-26-133	You have the floor.
u2020-10-26-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President. In 2013, the Fidesz majority of governments adopted a central bank law, which contains a highly unusual provision. Until then, the rule was that the losses of the central bank were financed by the budget and its profits were paid into the budget. According to your new law, the loss of the National Bank continues to be borne by the state, but the profits are held by the Central Bank. I think we should look for it for a long time until we find a business where the owners finance the loss to any extent, but the profits are spent on what the management wants. This year, you decided that last year's profits would be almost entirely paid into the budget. The lion's share of the special central bank profits of the current economic crisis, HUF 229 billion of the exchange rate results, with which the Hungarian forint has weakened, will be included in the state budget. This also means that, by the way, it was the amount that increased the profits of the central bank. The main impact of this is that of the foreign exchange credit victims and the victims of your treatment. During 2019, the exchange rate deteriorated by 2.6 percent, which was paid by the citizens of the country in the rise in prices. As a result of the economic crisis, the weakening of the forint meant extra expenditure for the population, which has flown into the budget, but as a kind of disguised tax, the return for you means that it is austerity for them. This year, the euro's exchange rate rose from HUF 330 to HUF 364, the slightly more than 10 percent weakening and the trend is not expected to change for the rest of the year. So I'm asking you, what do you intend to do with a HUF 1000 billion profit this year? You're gonna pay for the budget? Will the Fidesz foundations become the owners of this, disappearing the public money? Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-26-135	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice President Barnabas Virág. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-10-26-136	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Allow me, as usual, to begin my answer with a very short quote from the Central Bank Act, which is described in paragraph 3. §2 of the MNB's primary objective is to achieve and maintain price stability. It was also a question of inflation, wasn't it? So when we want to assess the performance of the central bank, we must first assess how we are doing in terms of price stability. In this area, we can say that 45 months have passed since January 2017, of which 41 months of Hungarian inflation occurred in the tolerance band between 2 and 4 percent. This is also a very successful European comparison, and we are the most successful central bank in Europe. To mention only a few figures: 35 in the Czech Republic, 23 in Poland and 13 in the euro area. Turning to your question on the outcome, as monetary policy has implications for the outcome of the central bank, we can say that since 2013 the Hungarian National Bank has been able to deliver a positive result every year as a result of monetary policy. So the central bank was a good farmer, with this efficient operation we made a profit every year. [[14.20]] Where did this profit go? The profits were used in two ways: we built them into a profit reserve: this meant that since 2013, the surplus reserve has increased from HUF 10 billion to HUF 200 billion, and we have paid dividends, and in recent years we have helped the budget through dividend payments by HUF 350 billion. Why is that important? Perhaps it would be worth recalling 2012-13. According to the 2012 plans, in 2013 the central bank would have suffered a loss of HUF 203 billion, which the budget at the time would have had to offset by austerity, instead these profits came, and I stress that by 2019 the central bank had already been able to make a HUF 250 billion deposit for the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I understand that you do not wish to tell me what you are planning to do with the HUF 1000 billion profit expected next year, which would otherwise be included in the budget already adopted. I understand you don't want to tell me, because, by the way, in 2014, you chose a third solution when, by the way, you paid your profits to a foundation or created them. They tried to remove the money by losing the profits saved in the foundations so to speak, but I think that at HUF 1000 billion, in the situation of such an economic crisis, you must clearly rule out that you would want to use it in any way. Yes, the Hungarian National Bank must pay its profits into the budget, and you must be obliged to do so by means of a legislative amendment. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-26-139	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Vice-President has a rejoinder. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2020-10-26-140	With regard to the future, I can say that, as we have been doing since 2013, we will continue to have effective and good farming in the future. Accordingly, in the future our use of results will be decided by the Board of Directors of the MNB, which is our internal rule. We see basically three uses in this area: similarly to what we have done in recent years, we pay them in the form of dividends; we can support the green transition, the green revolution in Hungary; and support the efficiency and future of our education system. Overall, I can say that the use of the MNB's results will continue to serve the interests of Hungarian people, Hungarian families and businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-141	Thank you very much for the Vice-President's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: why is it not important for you to preserve the biodiversity of the Carpathian Basin? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-26-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I hope we agree that the European Union's common agricultural policy has a fundamental impact on our future, not only in terms of the quantity and quality of food production, but also in terms of climate change and the preservation of biodiversity. It was therefore shocking for us that the European Parliament did not accept the green reform of the common agricultural policy. In a manner of speaking, profit has won over common sense, the interests of industrial economies in the hands of the few have taken precedence over healthy food production, rural life, family and small farms, and the preservation of natural values and biodiversity. The LMP finds it unacceptable that the Hungarian Government and the MEPs of Fidesz did not raise their voices against this, and voted in favour of the proposal that put our future at risk. The EU agricultural policy for the next seven years could be the victim of biodiversity objectives, the preservation of soil fertility, the protection of our waters and, not least, the maintenance of the countryside. Instead of small farms and organic farmers, EU funds continue to flow to large-scale farm management that accelerates climate change. Mr State Secretary, first of all, I would like to ask why the green reform of the common agricultural policy has not been voted on and how the Hungarian Government is in relation to the European Union's biodiversity strategy, which was held last week at the meeting of the European Union's Environment Ministers.
u2020-10-26-143	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2020-10-26-144	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have announced this weekend in a communication which does not contain the position of the Hungarian Government, and this is the majority opinion of the MEPs by voting, which you are calling to account for. Following the nearly two-and-a-half-year negotiation of EU agricultural ministers, the Council position on the common agricultural policy was reached in Luxembourg last week, on Wednesday, where a realistic compromise was reached with regard to the coordination of competitiveness and green targets. The final agreement was reached at so-called trialogues, where the position of the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission should be shared, and not exclusively on environmental and climate protection measures. In government policy, agricultural raw material production is of paramount importance, and you have heard this from us many times. One side is the traditional tasks of agriculture, its objectives such as food and food security, ensuring the fair income situation of farmers producing agricultural products and their families, and the stability of agricultural markets. On the other hand, environmental and climate protection expectations from the direction of society are increasing. It is important that the common agricultural policy has already contributed to the fight against climate change, it is enough to think only of first pillar greening or payments in support of second pillar agri-environmental, ecological, forestry or Natura 2000 areas. The agricultural policy must therefore really contribute to environmental and climate protection, but it would be a mistake to expect only this sector to change, as climate change is influenced by a number of other factors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-145	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-146	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to stress that there has been no consensus, the European greens, the green parties and the green civilians also protested against the adoption of the CAP. Let me give you some data. Between 2000 and 2018, the integration and concreteisation of the natural surface in Hungary increased by 7.1 percent, and 23 percent of the agricultural land was severely degraded. In this area, Hungary is one of the three worst-cased countries in Europe, with 87 percent of the different habitats and ecosystems being unfavourable. In recent times, the context of agriculture and climate change has indeed been highlighted, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as has been the case with climate change over the past period, much more attention will be given in the coming period to the fact that biodiversity is drastically decreasing, and is already putting the quality of human life at risk. It is certain that the objectives of agriculture and the objectives of the conservation of biodiversity need to be harmonised; we do not see how the government intends to do this.
u2020-10-26-147	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-148	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have argued on this subject so many times, or we have exchanged ideas, so allow me to say a thought that has been said very few times here, within the walls of Parliament. First of all, if your policy were to be applied by agriculture, I daresay that the amount of safe food that is determining in this country would be extremely reduced. Under the conditions in which you are thinking, it is not possible to produce a safe amount of food. If we can no longer produce a safe amount of food, the more expensive food that can be produced would remain a narrow layer, thus causing serious social tension and, not least, supply disruption. Do we need to find consistency in this, and do not attack us in this, because then you want us not to have adequate food supply in Hungary? Believe me, this issue can only be resolved jointly, taking into account environmental conditions in part and by coordinating efficient and not least competitive agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2020-10-26-149	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-150	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I asked you in writing about the bypass to Kunszentmárton, but you failed to provide any meaningful information. I hope you'll be willing to do so orally. It would be nice to inform the residents fairly and fairly. In Kunszentmárton, the absence of the bypass causes the local residents a great deal of annoyance. The walls of the houses on the side of the road crack, street front rooms can hardly be used, you can't sleep in them. If there's a big truck passing by, all the glasses will be ringing in the closets. Crossing the road is more than an accident risk, and then I'm not even talking about air pollution. In recent years, a promise from the government has been made many times to resolve this. At the beginning of July, István Fideszes, a Member of the Parliament of the region, said that there were advanced negotiations between the government and the contractors on this issue. My next question is asked by more than 8,000 Kunszentmártons, Mr Secretary of State, which is why you should be so kind as to answer the question and discuss the facts. When is the construction due to begin? Where is the implementation at present? What is the stage of the authorisation procedure? Will the bypass be completed in the form previously planned and authorised? Is there any encouraging development on the bypass? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-10-26-151	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. You have the floor, please.
u2020-10-26-152	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have already answered this question in writing to you. Allow me to say that for us, the development of roads, the construction of new roads and the renovation of roads are a particularly important policy objective. This is particularly important because, unlike the political forces with which you have joined forces, and who have already been in government, it is important for us to have a network of roads suitable for Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses in order to be able to travel safely, so that they can travel quickly and run businesses and companies properly. For this reason, more than 200 large-scale road development is currently taking place from around HUF 3200 billion in the road programme framework, with a total of about 1,000 kilometres of new and improved road sections in the period from 2016 to 2024. In addition, I can tell you that, along with the planned improvements in the road programme, the total length of the highway network in Hungary will increase by 2,000 kilometres. Moreover, what we can be particularly proud of is that, unlike the previous left-wing period, EU funds are now not the sole source of these developments, but the majority of the road programme budget is provided from domestic sources, and this is complemented by the available EU funds. Only this year 207 road renovation projects have been implemented and can be implemented in Hungary at 670 km. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-153	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-154	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As in writing, you have not answered any of my questions orally. I specifically asked about the bypass. Can you at least tell me where the negotiations are, when the locals can expect something to start there? Believe me, this is a huge problem for Kunszentmártonok, and protests and signatures are being organised. The fact that you were given this first question in the summer almost six months ago cannot answer what is going on with this case is absolutely astonishing and outrageous. I'm asking you to look into this. People on St. Imre's Road and St. Stephen's King's Road are waiting for you to answer that question. Be nice to look into this.
u2020-10-26-155	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-156	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact is, honourable Member, and honourable Parliament, that we are constantly discussing road developments, partly on the construction of new roads, and partly on the renewal of existing roads. It's not about not working. We're doing what every responsible government has to do, unlike the forces with whom you've joined forces. We have a continuously developed, constantly updated program, and we report on this regularly. Now I've told you about the road program. And the fact is, honourable Member, that we are constantly looking at it, and we are constantly discussing what improvements, where and in what order it is necessary to incorporate into this. But, honourable Member, we also have a very big catch from your friends on the development of the road network. This is why it is important to be able to implement these road improvements in the next few years in the right order of priority, at the right pace, together with the necessary resources. My request is not to attack this activity, but to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-157	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Budai, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Pál Völner, Minister of State, granted the right to reply because of his absence. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-26-158	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Vas County Bar Association suspended the membership of the Chamber of Csaba Czeglédy, the lawyer of Ferenc Gyurcsány. I went to the Ethics Committee of the Hungarian Bar Association in 2018, when I was charged with the crime of fiscal fraud committed to a particularly significant value in the criminal organisation. I'm glad that after two years, the law firm has succeeded. Although the law states that there is no need to suspend the lawyer against whom criminal proceedings are pending, the letter of the law still gives the Chamber a discretion if a practicing lawyer is a defendant of a five-year sentence or more, i.e. his membership can then be suspended. I would like to point out, Mr Secretary of State, that in such a case, a normal lawyer voluntarily suspends his membership and activity. In hearing all this, Csaba Czeglédy, Gyurcsány's lawyer, freaked out, threatened his social media side and attacked the president of the Bar Association. He was talking about a conceptual lawsuit, and then he had the prospect of continuing his activities as a noodle lawyer. Of course, the silence on the left is now crying. It is a shame that the office of the tax fraud lawyer is being held by the left-wing authorities with public funds by concluding contracts of the magnitude of millions. It is outrageous that in addition to the rule of law, the left, who breaks a spear every day, continues to patronize Czeglédy and does not take into account what crime he is accused of. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, a suspended lawyer could be in charge of the local government. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-159	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Vas County Bar Association has suspended Csaba Czeglédy's membership of the Bar in criminal proceedings. This means that he must not engage in legal activities in any municipality or in any other area, as membership of the Bar and its unimpeded exercise are a condition for the pursuit of the activity of a lawyer. Indeed, legal activities or chamber membership may be suspended if a criminal offence is committed intentionally and the lawyer is subject to such criminal proceedings. The Iron County Bar Association did the right thing in this case. Czeglédy is not a small-timer, nor a beginner, as he was sentenced to eight months in prison already in 2001 by the Szombathely City Court for tax evasion, for counterfeiting of private documents, for violation of accounting discipline and for other crimes, which were suspended for two years. [[14.40]] This was aggravated by the Veszprém County Court for four months a year later, so there were well-founded accusations against him at the time. The current case, Human Operator Zrt. Csaba Czeglédy and his associates have committed budget fraud in criminal organizations worth more than HUF 6 billion, some of which have already received their final punishment in criminal proceedings. It is also typical of the Lord that he is constantly making provocations with the help of the Democratic Coalition, which could also be called the Bitcoin Party, which has included him on his EU list to remove him from the criminal proceedings, under his immunity. And it is a separate story that the municipalities, i.e. the left-wing municipalities, either the New Buda or the VII. They buy his silence or activity with district, busy orders. Hopefully, this move temporarily prevents his activities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-161	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-162	Dear Secretary of State, Csaba Czeglédy, a public-law criminal who has already been convicted of similar crimes, has been contracted by the following DK-led municipalities for tens of millions of HUF. Péter Niedermüller led by Péter VII. district municipality concluded two contracts with Czeglédy, a HUF 500 thousand plus VAT plus one and a half million HUF plus VAT, with a total value of HUF 29 million. László Imre led by XI. district municipality concluded two contracts with Czeglédy, another HUF 500 thousand plus VAT and a HUF 600 thousand plus VAT contract, worth HUF 50 million, and even the value of HUF XI. Média 11 Kft. He also signed a contract with Czeglédy for 200,000 HUF plus VAT. In addition, Csaba Czeglédy is responsible for the representation of the defendant by MEP László Varju DK. I am sorry that you have left, Congressman, because we would have asked you what you thought of the case, and we are very much looking forward to the opinion of the leaders of the DK municipalities on what they think and what they will do about it in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-163	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Péter Niedermüller DK mayor of the VII. In the district, if someone wasn't so informed. The government office found that his contract was otherwise illegal, but it was renewed and still alive. Now, from the other side, of course, because of Czeglédy's obstruction, a new situation is emerging here in connection with the suspension. By the way, the mayor said in the election campaign or around it that: I will never, ever allow, let anyone in the municipality, in the area of it, steal or commit any illegal act after that, to a convicted lawyer. And in the recent scandal, where theft of electricity, which is the subject of bitcoin mining in addition to a common crime, is now only a question of what Péter Niedermüller is talking about, and Csaba Czeglédy is looking for VII. district council. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-165	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister, without a wallet for families, an immediate question:. What are the latest home-building measures? It's an address. Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of the Minister's absence. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Despite the election promise of the MSZP government that came into power in 2002, the first Orbán government's well-functioning interest rate subsidy scheme was transformed in two steps. The measures have led to the following substantial changes. The fixed rate ceiling, which limited interest rates to 5 per cent for new apartments and 6 per cent for used apartments, also stopped the possible increase in repayments; the amount of credit that could be taken on both new and used apartments decreased significantly, the customers of the used apartments were basically excluded from the buyers of the subsidised forint loans and pushed them towards the increasingly popular foreign exchange loans. In addition to the measures affecting interest rate subsidies, the negative impact of austerity measures in the area of personal income tax has also been very strong. In 2009, the restrictions of the Bajnai government once again made families more difficult. The housing subsidies were suspended, with which some HUF 205.5 billion was taken out of the pockets of the families. In addition, gas and district heating compensation has been phased out, resulting in an additional HUF 60-80 billion spending for families most in need. The Fidesz-KDNP administration has taken a completely different approach and has taken a series of positive measures to support families. The government has constantly expanded the family support and home creation system in line with Hungary's performance, and it is no different now, during the crisis caused by the Crown Virus. Dear Secretary of State, Cutbacks can't be an alternative, especially in a difficult situation. The KDNP fraction therefore supports all measures that help Hungarian families. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State, which are the latest home-building and family-support measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-167	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-26-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 2010 Fidesz and KDNP's election programme were two of the most important elements of the family and home, which is why, under the authority of the electorate, the government has made a family-friendly turn, which is not to punish families for having children, but, on the contrary, Hungary should be a place where every desired child can be born and where there can be a roof over the heads of every family. We have been working for nearly ten years to improve the life situation of Hungarian families, to support childbearing and to help raise children. In ten years, we have increased the budget for families by two and a half times. This is unprecedented in Europe, by the way. In 2020, we will implement the largest home-building programme of all time. In this context, as of January 2021, anyone who buys a newly built home will only have to pay the 5% VAT on his property. If the apartment is purchased by families with the known and popular CSOK loan, they can even claim this 5 percent. In order to reduce the burden of buying a flat, families with children who take care of CSOK will have both new and used apartments free of charge. In support of the renovation of the apartments of families with children, 50% of the costs will be reimbursed up to HUF 3 million. What we want is for every family that has children to have a secure roof over their head. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-170	Thank you very much. It's very good to hear about these measures. I would like to point out that this obviously applies to the whole country, but I would like to stress that the preservation capacity of the countryside, the preservation force of the countryside, together with the aforementioned village CSOK and the sources of the .Magyar válaszláció-program, will increase significantly, because if there are safe homes, liveable villages and available jobs, they will make our lives livable. In these programs large municipal-owned buildings, roads, sidewalks, offices, cultural houses, kindergartens, schools, crèches can be renewed or built. These are added to the above-mentioned family support measures not only in large cities, but also in smaller settlements, which significantly improve the quality of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-171	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It's true as you say. There have been a lot of people involved in this family policy, and the municipalities have also been particularly involved. Hungarian families can always count on us to support and help their welfare from the government side. That is why we are operating and expanding our family support system, so that no family is in a vulnerable position, and that there is a roof over their heads, and we are trying to help them break down the difficulties and obstacles of having children. I would like to point out that, in addition to the home creation of families, there are numerous other measures and support measures, including a wide range of family tax incentives, support for large families to buy cars, tax exemptions for ged extra, graduates, mothers with four children, but also a crèche development programme, which also provides mini- and workplace crèches for families with children. Families with children who have children can continue to count on us. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-26-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Zsuzsanna Vitályos has given her the right to reply. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.50]]
u2020-10-26-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2016, since Lőrinc Mészáros bought into the Osijek football team, the Fidesz government has transferred a thousand million forints of public money each year to the Osijek account of the Nogometni club. But why is that? Is it because the support given to football in Osijek also constitutes support for the Hungarian minority living outside the border? Well, let's see the facts. In the last referendum, less than 1 percent of the population of Osijek declared themselves Hungarian. But how many of the 979 Hungarians can play football in Osijek? I wasn't lazy, I looked into it, and according to the published data, I found four young people with Hungarian-sounding names and playing football in the Osijek. Is it possible that the training of these four Hungarian-looking players will cost us Hungarian citizens HUF 4 billion? I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what national interest is the funding of the sport of foreigners who play football in Hungary as well as those who play football abroad? Do you think that sports mail is justified in supporting Croatian football, which is much stronger than we already are? Yes or no? And despite the economic crisis, do you intend to deposit a thousand million forints into the Osijek account of the Nogometn Club this year? Yes or no? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2020-10-26-175	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-176	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Although the hour of immediate questioning is a special parliamentary genre, I think we can expect each other to respect each other's work by asking a little more suspicious question than by asking a little more question than by asking "yes" or "no." [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] I think about this, by the way, that the government supports the development of reinforcements in sport and we support this everywhere, where Hungarians living in minorities are, by the way. That is the case with your question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-177	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-178	Madam Secretary, excuse me, I have already sent this question to the EMMI in the form of an oral question when there were oral questions. So, if you don't like this genre, then get it back, and you won't be a bag cat. Besides, it would be really nice to know how many Hungarian children are actually trained with our public money. And, Madam Secretary of State, on behalf of the people of Somogy, I would like to ask you not to support the football business of Lőrinc Mészáros buying half the Balaton Beach, from a thousand million forints a year, but rather the MotoGP or the Marcal hospital in Vároly, and perhaps then! We shouldn't wait 15 months for an eye exam, or we shouldn't have patients traveling for hours just because, despite your promise, there's still no CT in the marcal hospital. You didn't answer my question, I'm asking your opinion, so I'm going to ask again: are you going to transfer a thousand million forints to the Osijek account of the Nogometni Club again this year? Yes or no? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Please answer that question. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-26-179	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-180	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The House Committee and seven parliamentary parties have decided on the genre of immediate questions, otherwise allow me to complete it! The staff of the Ministry of Human Resources and the State Health Services Center have begun the autonomy of Marcal Hospital as an institution. I would like to inform you that this process was initiated on the initiative of Attila Móring József, an individual representative of the constituency, who is monitoring the events himself. After carrying out the tasks necessary for autonomy, the institution can continue working as a new legal status in the service of Marcali and its citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-181	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Isn't human life important anymore? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Ms Zsuzsanna Vitályos was entitled to reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-26-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the epidemiological protocol, if there's a Covid suspect, the GP won't go to the patient in order to protect himself and his district, which is why he's sending the ambulance out to collect a sample, based on a phone check list. In Hajdú-Bihar County, there is a nursing home in one of the small settlements where less than 30 people live and the employees are still there. Of course, at the nursing home, as in other cases, the doctor does not provide full - time care for patients, but the general practitioner does so. It happened that he got covid sick at the nursing home, and see a miracle. What did they force the GP to do? The ambulance wasn't called, it wasn't the ambulance, the CDC tested the residents of the nursing home and the employees, but the general practitioner was obliged to do the sampling by breaking the procedure, and, Madam Secretary, the head of the institution for the sampling tube went in on the instruction of the head of the ÁNTSZ County Department, not the ambulance, the general doctor had to test the samples, and then the general physician had to ensure that the samples were entered into the county seat. Madam Secretary, how could this happen? It is unparalleled that a GP will be subjected to quarantine from this day forward and that he will not be able to supply his own area because he is required to be sampled. Secretary of State, how can it happen that the general doctor has indicated that he is of the Middle Ages, that he has a very serious immune disease, and cannot do so, not because he does not want to do it, but because he wants to protect his own health, and because of his ability to continue his practice and care for patients in this emergency, he is obliged by the county SAO's chief district officer to do so [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That he has to do this sampling? They don't even follow their own rules anymore? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-10-26-183	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsuzsanna Vitalyos to answer. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't know if this incident you've mentioned or condemned has actually happened, and it has indeed happened as we have heard from you. It is certainly clear that NNK has provided a detailed procedure for all involved in the epidemiological control and that everyone should act accordingly. Of course, general practitioners can also ask the ambulance for a test in the same way, and this is their obligation according to procedure. I don't know if this case you mentioned really happened, and it happened at all, and we're going to look into it, and we're going to find out the truth, the whole truth about it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-26-185	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2020-10-26-186	Madam Secretary, I have the correspondence in my hand. [[He's presenting some documents.]] and the letter from the county district clerk to the general practitioner. The testing is carried out in principle through a test ordered from the National Rescue Service, where you can order it from the general physician in case of a suspected infection. The different process protocols are regularly updated on the NNK website. It is interesting that the current protocol was published on 9 October 2020, the previous one on 21 September, so it is not engraved with granite strength. I would add that, of course, the epidemic is changing, and we can see very well how it grows from week to week. Madam Secretary, don't question whether I'm telling the truth or not. The GP called me in despair this weekend, saying that he was not only worried about his health, but that the next day he couldn't get to work because he was forced to do something that wasn't his job. Madam Secretary, at least you'll admit that you don't know. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] (The president bell ringing) It's messy, and now there's no need to worry about the health of the general practitioners...
u2020-10-26-187	Thank you, Congresswoman...
u2020-10-26-188	...and there is no need to fear the Hungarian population, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-189	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-26-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I said, we're investigating the case you mentioned, but allow me to say that it's pretty crooked for you and the entire left to say anything about the pandemic. [[Gergely Harvestó: This helps the general doctor a lot!]] because it was you who, even in the spring session of the Parliament, tried with all your might to capitalize on political capital from the current epidemiological situation. So it's very difficult, after all, to believe anything you believe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2020-10-26-191	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Families an immediate question:. Follow the Hungarian Government on the Polish road to reducing women's rights? It's an address. Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of the Minister's absence. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-192	Madam Secretary of State's response must have reassured the general physician who is concerned about you and your patients. It's quite amazing that you can say anything about stupid political lounges. I hope I have better luck with Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitályos: Let's hope so!]] Secretary of State, after Minsk, you are now protesting against your friends of principle in the streets of Warsaw. Polish women and men supporting them have gone on the streets because they have completely eliminated women's choice and freedom of choice in Poland. On the basis of this decision, it has also become impossible to terminate a pregnancy if it is a result of violence or if, unfortunately for health reasons, there is no chance of being born alive. Although the Hungarian Government claims that it does not wish to undermine women's rights, it is only difficult for you to believe, because at the same time you signed an international declaration aimed at supporting governments that wish to undermine women's rights. It is typical of how extreme, restrictive, I could say that it is a fundamentalist document, that 31 out of 193 UN Member States have signed it. The Trump U.S. government has initiated this proposal and is also supported by states that ignore women's rights, such as Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Sudan, South Sudan or Libya. A total of three countries from Europe signed this declaration: the already mentioned Belarus, Poland and the Hungarian Government. Well, congratulations on this great company. After that, I only have one question: who are they fooling now? Their fundamentalist, conservative friends who have been promised support or the Hungarian women who are promised not to limit their freedom of choice, their rights? Thank you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2020-10-26-193	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-26-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I don't know if you'll have more luck with me than others, but I'll try to answer you. In Hungary, the issue of abortion is legally settled, and the government does not plan to change that. The Fundamental Law is very clear on this subject. I quote: "Every man has a right to life and human dignity. The life of the fetus should be protected from conception. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Hungary has joined the declaration because we firmly believe that the family is the foundation of every strong, successful society, and it must be confirmed in multilateral fora that family policy can only be defined at national or local level. You, honourable Member, have repeatedly put faith in the idea of the United States of Europe, but we trust not the supranational dialogue, but the dialogue between nations. This statement is also an expression of this attitude, the result of an equal dialogue between the United States, Poland, Hungary and many other nations. By the way, Congressman, the number of abortions in Hungary decreased every year between 2010-19 by 36 percent. Every year since 2010, the number of abortions has decreased by more than 7 percent in the first eight months. Since 2010, our family support system, which has not been used before, provides many support and benefits to future parents during pregnancy, with regard to the fetus. These include family tax incentives, family housing benefits, interest-supported housing loans for multi-children, baby shower support, support for car shopping for large families, or support for mortgage credit reduction for multi-children. They are all available during pregnancy, thus expressing that life that has been conceived matters to us. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-10-26-195	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-196	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would really like to thank you for having answered my question in substance, even if your answer was not reassuring to me, because the basic rule quoted by you is precisely what the interpretation of which gives at least a number of opportunities for the Government or even the Constitutional Court, as in Poland, to strengthen the right of women to choose. Based on this, the Constitutional Court can say at any time... where, we know that today there are all constitutional judges appointed by Fidesz, pardon, Fidesz and KDNP have appointed one-sidedly. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] There are all those constitutional judges over whom, to say the least, you possess. Therefore, the concern remains justified, especially because, once again, if someone looks at the text of this declaration, it is not about the protection of families and national self-determination, but about the prohibition of abortion anywhere. The question is, if the Hungarian government supports this, what is it planning to do at home. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-26-197	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-26-198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I hope that you have also read the statement you are asking about, and have not only been informed by the press about it. Allow me to list the most important references so you can get a clear picture of what our country has joined. It contains such points, and I quote: "The human rights of women are an inalienable, organic and divisive part of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Women and girls should have equal access to quality education, economic resources and political participation, as well as equal opportunities for men at all levels of employment, leadership and decision-making. It also contains a sentence:. All people have the right to live. In a sentence that says: "Abortion must by no means be supported as a method of family planning. The family is a natural and fundamental component of society and has the right to the protection of society and the state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In Hungary, we have worked in this spirit, and we will continue to do so in the coming period. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-10-26-199	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Katalin Csöbör, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: å How far does Brussels go in double standards? Due to the absence of Madam Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given him the right to reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-26-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It has already been mentioned that the European Commission has not prepared its report on Hungary in a fair way, since 11 of the 12 NGOs that provide background material for the report are financed by the Soros network. For example, the Helsinki Committee, which has received about HUF 1 billion in support since 2010. We have also discussed, Mr Secretary of State, that George Soros's man, Mr Jourová, is responsible for this report and, before the document was completed, he insulted all Hungarian people by saying that Hungary is not in a position to make decisions about its own future. Contrary to this, of course, details of the case on the silence of Belgian police violence and the systematic discrimination which the Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte himself admitted does not appear in the country reports. However, it is clear that the whole report was motivated by political blackmail, which the left uses as a wand against conservative-Christian governments. The first Poland, then Hungary, followed by Bulgaria and no illusions, is preparing for Slovenia now. György Soros no longer affects the European Union through his own people and networks, but directly calls for a trial against Hungary. And now there is an absurd scene when, at the General Affairs Council, Minister Judit Varga asked that the debate on the report on Hungary be made public. Of course, it's been swept off. Well, that's what the politicians on the left in Brussels are worth. Mr Secretary, how long can this go on, that the European Union is applying double standards and that we cannot publicly and openly deny false findings? Thank you.
u2020-10-26-201	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have seen, indeed, recently, that through its organisations, but also directly, George Soros openly instigates Brussels against Hungary. [[15.10]] It is clear to the contrary that the rule of law report is part of his order, through his organisations, and revenge for our immigration policy. In practice, we are faced with an extortion tool that deals with matters which cannot be dealt with legally, within the framework of the rule of law, in the form of a procedure for the management of obligations, in the form of a political report, in a legal robe. Since 2010, it has been an unbearable fact for them that this country has been able to come out of the overdeficit procedure, that we have been able to involve multinational companies in the burden-sharing by means of separate taxes, that we have been able to protect the worst layers, which should otherwise be protected by the left, primarily on the basis of their ideology, and not by price increases, and that we have managed to put in place the legal framework that makes Hungary believable to protect its borders against migrants, which is also required by the Schengen Treaty. Notice that we are part of a game where we follow the rules of the game, and everyone else behind our backs is playing them. It seems that even though we emphasized in the report that ensuring objectivity, transparency and equal treatment between Member States is essential, the double standard has won. Madam Congresswoman mentioned either Dutch or Belgian examples, but we could also say the media situation in Finland, which were included in earlier reports, which were discreetly silenced. However, when it comes to the case of the Slovak citizen, there was practically a case similar to that of the American when the police practically killed that man. If we look forward, we must say that we do not give up Hungarian interests and we will continue to hold on to our own interests. Thank you.
u2020-10-26-203	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-204	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. However, one week later, Anna Donáth admitted that Fidesz and Judit Varga were legally right, yet the behaviour in Brussels was unacceptable: unfair accusations, double standards, violations of contracts and internal laws, and always at the expense of Hungary. The reason is the political difference of opinion. Because of our Christian-Conservative policy, we are threatened with financial sanctions and withdrawal of our voting rights. Thus, after 23 October, in the second half of October, not all the statements that we are not willing to tolerate being judged for political reasons are unheard of. In 56 one people said that it was enough, and the Hungarians were able to hit the Soviet tanks for our freedom and independence with almost bare hands, simple Molotov cocktails. The times have passed that we cannot have free expression or free will. Brussels wants more Europe, and we want more Hungary.
u2020-10-26-205	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you think about it, there are so many changes compared to the 56 that we did not voluntarily join that community at that time, but was the result of military occupation, and to the Union voluntarily. Within the Union, there are powers that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian nation, has allowed us to exercise together, and there are those that are part of our independence and sovereignty, which we have not allowed through. Any leadership in Brussels, any European United States television on the left in the liberals or in the greens that appears, we are not part of this. We believe in a Europe of nations, and we continue to hold on to it, and we want to preserve our independence, and we regard all such stealthy legislation and the rule of law report as an ideological colonization. Whether we are talking about migration, we are talking about LGBT, we are talking about globalism, we will, in fact, continue to protect national interests. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-10-26-207	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no political group has asked for a question, this item will not be discussed. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who is not in the Chamber, followed by Mr Róbert Dudás, Jobbik Group. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame: -Why? It's an address.
u2020-10-26-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, A country's attention to its future, its every effort to create a meaningful, valuable and future-building society, must take into account a number of aspects, one of which is education. In the event that we give our children everything in terms of education, we can be sure that we have done much for our future, for the future of Hungary. In addition to the quality of education, however, it is also important to know within what framework and capacity this education can take place, and we must state that we have plenty of work to do in this area. We may disagree with the government on a number of issues, but I think that there is nothing wrong with that; rather, the problem is that we do not hear each other's voices, and that we do not draw the conclusions on where to build this future. Now, however, I would like to address not education as a professional issue, but the circumstances that are currently in education. In recent years, I have repeatedly raised my word for rural education, for the renewal of certain institutions, and for the abandonment of others. All I can say now, as I have always said, is that all the help must be given to education, education institutions, those that work well, and not those which, by the way, even before the renovation, know that they may close within a year or two or three years, and that they may not be renewed recently, for which there would be an urgent need. I would now like to highlight an institution and, in his example, present the shortcomings of the system. I would like to emphasise this, not in criticism, but rather in encouraging everyone to find a solution together. In 1982, the Calvary Elementary School opened its doors in Gyöngyös, which at that time was a highly modern institution, and everyone who knew was happy to have their child registered here. The attraction is not worn out, it is due to the excellent education, the high level of work of the instructors, the quality of education, and everyone who has tried to add something to the operation of this institution. However, none of this can be said of the building, its energy, in some cases its static, and even today's safety as it stands. It would be long to list and look for those responsible for what they have done in the last 38 years and for those who have not done what they have done. I think that this is not going to get us a solution. We need to sit down and find a way for this patina school to be renovated so that education can continue. At present, 476 children attend the school, which is not only attractive in Gyöngyös, but comes from many settlements in the region every day. The building also includes a catering kitchen and a vocational training institute, along with its dormitory. Thus, it is safe to say that a thousand or more people are affected by the operation or non-operation of this institution. In this situation, however, it is not working well, and it is even imminent that it does not work at all, making the lives of hundreds of families miserable. In 1982, the heating system was also completed with everything else, which was already amortised at a level that required a school break. Only one of the current four burners works, and here I have to mention the crumbling walls, the falling plaster in the stairwell, the no-open windows in the lockers, incomplete wall and floor coverings. This is unacceptable. And in this situation, when parents have little freedom and have to take a school break, I simply say once again that they cannot do so for hundreds of families. And what's next? How long are we gonna wait for the renovation? As long as, don't give me, God, tragedy doesn't occur from falling plaster and other shortcomings? First, he submitted Jobbik's budget amendment to the national budget for 2016 and then to the "17," and now I do not mention that we have submitted a budget amendment to energy modernisation on a number of occasions. This has been swept away year after year, which is a very big problem, and in this situation, we are standing on the verge of a school shutdown. Last year, this was also mentioned at a meeting in Heves County, where the head of KLIK County School District said that they could not provide funds for this, so we need government resources. I would like to ask with great respect the members of the government that I have just said in writing to make them aware that we are at the 24th hour. It is not a party interest, it is not a city interest, it is not a government interest, it is in the interests of children, parents, society and education. Give me some help, please, because we really need it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[15.20]]
u2020-10-26-209	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the group of the LMP Group, called "The Day of Autonomous Union of Székely." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-10-26-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would have liked to comment on the last immediate question just now, obviously this was not possible when the Secretary of State spoke about the operation of the European Union and the enforcement of national interests. I think he was a little out of character, and I can tell you that not all opposition parties in the United States of Europe are thinking. For example, we have said very strongly here that we reject the Utopia of the United States of Europe, and we want good cooperation between nations, not more, but better integration, a democratically, transparent Europe. Basically, I would also like to talk about this in many respects in my speech after the agenda. Yesterday, the last Sunday of October, was the day of autonomy of the Szekler, and it was a joy to see the fire on many places again, with which they expressed it everywhere, in many places in the Carpathian Basin, here, in the motherland, that Szeklerland would not give up legitimate autonomy efforts. Our political community stands up for the rights of Hungarians across the border from the start of our foundation, and we are very much in agreement with the autonomy of Szeklerland. We believe that it is a legitimate effort, but our view is that it is not enough to talk about it, to make statements, to act in order to achieve it, or at least to get closer to those goals. We can tell you that this is not only a symbolic year, we are a hundred years after the outrageous Trianon peace dictatorship, but also a year when we can act. The Székely National Council, in a strong context with this important initiative, launched the European Citizens' Initiative last year to support and develop national regions. In January this year, seeing that the work of collecting signatures is not going well, I myself initiated a resolution proposal, and it was very pleasant to see that there was practically a complete political consensus here in February. Here, together, pro-government and opposition groups and representatives were able to prove that this issue could indeed be rejected from party policy, and we finally adopted it with 158 unanimous votes in favour. You could also see it, and it was also joyful, and I think that one of the most positive developments this year, in conjunction with the year of national integration, was that many public figures, musicians, athletes and politicians could join the campaign of irdala.hu independently of party politics, and that this matter created a real Hungarian national cooperation, and we can say that this Hungarian national cooperation set an example for Europe as a whole. Thus, by 7 May, more than one million signatures were collected in favour of the European Citizens' Initiative for National Regions. However, we have also seen that, unfortunately, due to the various restrictions caused by the coronal virus, international conditions could not be met, so it is an additional task to collect the allocated quota in four other EU countries. It is very important that the deadline has been extended, it can still be collected until 7 November, so it can be seen that time is very little, less than two weeks back. In order to meet this international condition, I wrote letters to more than a hundred mayors and asked them to try to help this issue better with the help of their partner cities, twin cities and other international relations in the European Union and to work together to ensure that international conditions are met and fulfilled. It was very good to see that a number of cities have now responded to the fact that they actually use their international relations, use their twin city relationships, and are still struggling in the European political space to gather signatures. I would therefore like to thank the leaders of Szombathely, Kaposvár, Esztergom, Veszprém, Hódmezővásárhely, Kecskemét, Dunaújváros, Miskolc, Tököl and Baja for having already taken this step, and I would also like to thank the municipalities of Csepel and Budavár in Budapest for turning to their partner cities and sister towns and asking them to support this very important European citizens' initiative. Today, in a third round, I have contacted the city leaders again with a very limited deadline, but I think that this week and next week can still be used actively and successfully to collect signatures at international level. At the same time, I ask everyone who has not yet done so to support this very important initiative, which is an important national issue, and I think we can say that this is also a very important European issue, which is related to very important European values, to ensuring the rights of indigenous minorities. I am quite certain that if everyone in their own way, on their own front, using their own options, will do what they can, not only by the 7th of November deadline, there will be more than a million valid signatures available, but we can also fulfill seven In a European Union country there should be the necessary quota, the required number of signatures, and therefore the European Commission should be required to deal with this very important issue on a compulsory basis, and to launch legislation that will also provide greater rights for indigenous national minorities and provide financial opportunities for the development of national regions. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-26-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ms Csöbör Katalin, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a post- Agenda address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-26-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Every year we move away from 1956, there are fewer and fewer people who have been or have witnessed these glorious days. Since 1990 we have been commemorating the 23rd of October as a national holiday, but we cannot allow it to become a simple wreath celebration, as it still sends a current message to the Hungarians. As we refer to it briefly, 56 was the most outstanding and also world-historical event in Hungarian history in the last century. Between 1948 and 56 more than 40,000 people were imprisoned and 500 people were executed for political reasons. 25-30 thousand people were interned, i.e. taken to the camp, or relocated, or made runaway, as Ferenc Gyurcsány threatened Vidnyánszky and all the other right-wing Hungarians. In total, more than one million people have been personally affected by oppression, terror, court trials and judgments, and this is the ten million in Hungary. This was the communist dictatorship, which caused the Hungarians to hit the Soviet tanks with their bare hands in '56. Sándor Márai writes in his touching poem: "Why, that the sky was broken, /Because a people said: "It was enough. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. After the fight for freedom was over [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The dictatorship continued in new form and new leadership. It is customary to call the Kádár era a soft dictatorship, but this is a complete misunderstanding, to be more precise, the machination of the post-communists living among us. In 1848-49 Haynau ordered 120 executions in Hungary three times as large. After 1956, Kádár, Béla Biszku and Antal Apró were sentenced to death between 250 and 450, and all the victims of the reprisal were nearly 24,000. The post-56 Kádár era was a direct continuation of the Rákosi dictatorship, and that is what we today have to understand, this was the real dictatorship. And with that word, they throw around ignorantly, irresponsiblely and lyingly today, the opposition, politicians of the left. In today's confused political context, we often hear voices from European leaders and leading politicians on the left, that our country is not a rule of law, that there is no democracy in our country and that we are building a dictatorship. That is why we need to recall and present the dictatorship before and after.56. Dear House, On October 23, we remembered the 1956 heroes, those who gave their lives to make the country free and independent. We set the heroism of the Pest boys to the young people today, while the EU representative of the Momentum just made a full confession the other day and said that he would coordinate and call the EU leader responsible for the rule of law every three days to teach him what to think and say about the Hungarian dictatorship. We remember the heroes of 56, but the DK grandson of the happiest barracks' former capo. [[Gergely Harvester: Nana! Let's behave.]] it would like to end Hungary and all the European nation states with it. Wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Gergely Arató: He has a name, Klára Dobrev.]] dreaming of a single international United States of Europe. The EU does not actually have a rule of law problem with the Hungarian government [[László Varju intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's just a call and an excuse. The problem with the Hungarian government is that the invisible power behind the EU, the huge banks and multinational companies, are that we want to remain national. [[15.30]] The Hungarians wanted to remain independent, so they fought for independence in 1956. Today, our job is to remember martyrs of 56 and to preserve the freedom that they could no longer live. Gloria victis! Glory to the heroes!
u2020-10-26-213	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, an independent representative, applied for a post-meeting speech: Why is one of our most important historical sites not important to the government claiming to be national? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-214	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are many beautiful places in Hungary, one of the most beautiful places for me is the National Historical Memorial Park of Ópusztaszer. But I would not only like to talk about the miserable fate of this park because it is so close to my heart, but because it was an important symbol of all Hungarians, the meeting place of all Hungarians long ago and could be today. The elements of the park are of great value to all Hungarians individually. Consider, for example, the Feszty-circle, this 120-metre-long, 15-metre-high painting with a total fantastic atmosphere of 1800 square meters, but other exhibitions of the Rotunda, the cozy skanzent, or the monumental monument of home invasion, the monastery of Szer or the Csete-jurts, and there are many other attractions in the park that would be worth mentioning. At the same time, in reply to my written question about the fate of the park, I received a similar wording from the government. They said that the fundamental goal of the memorial park was to be a symbol of national cohesion and of Hungarian culture, to strengthen national identity and to help preserve our national heritage. This is all very nice and sounds good, but I am very sad that in practice, for example, it is not a support for the maintenance and development of this park, which, in my view and in this description, which the government has just formulated, would deserve. However, I believe that, for the cultural reasons mentioned above, but even for tourism reasons, the State would have an obligation to ensure that it maintains its good condition and continuously improves it. On the other hand, the government allocates a very low amount in the budget compared to the importance of the area and its size of 55 hectares for these purposes, as the annual grant of approximately 220 million is sufficient for the wages and some minimal repairs of the workers there, and unfortunately this is seen in the park's condition. Indeed, I personally experienced this a few weeks ago when I visited Opustaszer, and I saw with my own eyes the state of his present condition. Regrettably, I had to experience that there was a great deal of lack of money in the park. I would like to support this with a few examples. For example, two of the Chete Yurts can be visited, all the others are closed due to their condition. Many other buildings or parts of buildings cannot be visited because they are in such condition. Many statues should be renovated, or memorial plaques are already in such a bad condition that the texts are not readable on these boards, or some of the Skanzen's buildings are already in a state that needs renovation. I have turned to the government with a written question on this subject. There was a government defense that there was a building that had been renovated in recent years. But that is a very poor answer compared to what I said about the area, and overall, it is no exaggeration to say that there are up to a hundred buildings in this very large area, and shamefully, these buildings are in a very bad state overall. And renovations aren't about money, they're about will. It is not difficult to see that, over the past ten years, the government has given funds of greater magnitude than necessary for different purposes. It is clear, then, that there is money for renovation, but there is a lack of will, and I would like to give a concrete example, paralleling it with the National Memorial Park of Ópusztaszer. In order not to be so foreign to the landscape, I would like to bring here the example of Lakitelek, where the area marked by Sándor Lezsák's name received billions of forints. Remind everyone once again that Ópusztaszer receives 220 million forints a year, and the Lakitelek Folk College received several billion forints. I do not know exactly what is going on there, I do not want to criticize it, I would like to point out that there is money for the National Park of Ópusztaszer, which is not behind the name of a Fidesz MEP, and is not running in such a way, but it would be very important, because, as I have already said, this memorial park is a symbol of all Hungarians. In order to avoid misunderstandings, at the end of my speech, I would like to say that the aim of my speech was not to dissuade people from visiting this memorial park, and on the contrary, I would say that, even in its present state, it can offer an experience that can provide an entire family, I believe, a meaningful recreation. At the same time, the aim of my speech was to draw attention, because it is an important memorial place for which it is important that the government spends much, much more money, and I think that after such a wrinkle, it could be a worthy place for all Hungarians to visit, and it could provide a relaxing place for Hungarians in Hungary or across borders, which would really be worth visiting. I trust the government will recognise this and take the necessary steps as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-26-215	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Sneider applied for a post-meeting speech, an independent representative from his work to the cemetery. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-10-26-216	Mr President, Dear House, Today in Hungary a man can spend seven years in retirement, a woman 21 years. Hungarian legislation and the premature death of Hungarian men make it possible only to do so. We Hungarian men can boast that we spend the shortest time in pensions in Europe, and those few years are mostly sick. We have the least male pension in proportion to the population. In a sarcastic way, we can be proud of the fact that while the men of Europe sloppy and retired, we Hungarians die hard at work. This is all a sign, in my opinion, that the West is declining, decadent, and must be on the wrong track. In Croatia, you can spend 10 years, 11 years in Slovakia, 13 years in the Czech Republic, 14 years in Italy and 18 years in France on average in a man's pension. Of course, unlike Hungary, it is possible to retire earlier than the general retirement age in each country, so in reality they spend even more time in retirement than our declining neighbours and the declining West. Dear House, I have argued here many times to allow men to retire after 40 years of employment. I have argued many times that there should be early retirement and early retirement in Hungary again. The Fidesz benches keep rejecting me. When it comes to this, many come to mind only those professions where the working criterion is the most difficult to meet at the age of 55 to 65. Like a mason, an ambulance, a firefighter, a miner, and all that stuff. Many do not think about professions with easier physical work, such as drivers, drivers, where high blood pressure and diabetes make it impossible to work, and thus lose their jobs before 65 years of age. Many did not think of the postmen either, for many have a picture of a young postman humming from house to house on a pleasant spring, bright day. There's no better job than that, you might think. Walking around in the air all day, half in health. Few think about the need to do the same in winter minus 15 degrees, on ice roads, sidewalks, soaked in the cold, pouring rain in autumn and 40 degrees in summer. 'Cause you still have to get your pension and your letters. Many do not think that the mailbag has a heavy weight to carry for nearly half a century. Let's have a typical case here. After 42 years of delivery, a male mailman is operated on with a disc hernia. She's on sick leave for six months, goes back to work at the age of 60, because what else she could do, but, understandably, her back hurts a lot, and she's incapable of working. He's going to the doctor again, but he's not getting an incompetent job qualification. What can you do? He resigns from his employer, so he is entitled to 16 months' severance pay under the collective agreement. Yeah, but it's still a long way from 65. [[15.40]] After that, she's entitled to three months of unemployment benefits, but she's still far from 65 years old. After that, he will be entitled to HUF 64 400 in income replacement support. After 43 years of work, he's in a humiliating position. You'll barely be able to make a living by the time you get to 65, and if you get there, your pension will be much less, humiliating, thanks to the low income of the last years. I think I explained with this case why Hungarian men live for the shortest time in Europe. Ceterum censeo: Let men retire after 40 years of employment. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-10-26-217	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech:. What about the general practitioners and patients? It's an address. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2020-10-26-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I'd pick up where I left off the immediate questions. In the spring, when the coronal virus epidemic occurred in Hungary, among the first measures, the government was absolutely right to protect our vulnerable countrymen, the elderly and the medical workers who spent 65 years in health care. In GPs and hospital doctors, doctors over the age of 65 did not have to serve on the front lines, as they were considered vulnerable age groups. Summer broke out, and what we see now is that in the middle of autumn, the number of patients with a coronary virus sets a record every day, and we can also say that every day the death rate is increasing. Compared to this, not only do we not protect doctors of vulnerable age, but we expose them to cases that the epidemiological protocol itself does not allow, but does not allow. Let me tell you again what happened in one of the settlements in Hajdú-Bihar County. We are talking about a small settlement, a thousand and five hundred people living in it, and there is an elderly home maintained by a local government. There aren't 30 residents. One of the elderly inmates got a coroner virus, and the ambulance came out, tested it, and, I understand, was taken to the hospital. Then, according to the procedure, it should be done that in most cases a general practitioner who does not provide full-time work for the patients, the guests in the home, but, as a general practitioner, with a separate contract, is addressed to the CDC, and the ambulance is called and the residents and employees of the home should be tested. This was not the case at the end of the week, but the head of the SAO of the county district office sent a letter saying that the general practitioner had to do the sampling. The head of the institution will go in and get the test tubes and the tools to remove the sample. The GP will do the sampling, and then the GP is obliged to take the sample to the county hospital. This is not only to protect the general practitioners themselves, but it is also to protect the general practitioner and the districts provided by the general practitioner themselves, as well as the citizens. Because if you're in contact with covids, you have the same protocol as all the other people: the next day, he'll have to go to quarantine. We know the data very well today. More than 560 GP districts are permanently unfilled, which means they haven't had a GP in six months. This means that about 720 thousand of our countrymen do not receive basic care on a daily basis. This may be added by the fact that there has been a disturbance in the treatment of epidemics, which we opposition representatives say no longer, but the profession itself says that the epidemic is not handled by the profession, but by political intent to control the epidemic, the government is trying politically to deal with the epidemic. It's really not okay. I told this story in the hour of immediate questioning because we don't want to put GPs through it, and neither do we want to put those citizens in the position to report within weeks that more GPs will be left unattended just because they irresponsiblely expose GPs to coercive solutions that should not be done. The CDC is regulated in a separate regulation, and there is a separate procedure for when to do what to do, when to apply it. In the hour of immediate questioning, I also said that this procedure is constantly changing, of course, it must change, because the epidemic itself, we see how Hungary is strengthening from week to week. I would like to point out in particular the reply of the Secretary of State that I thought that I would still cry back to Bencé Retvári. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You weren't in Parliament today, Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, but he sometimes gives you a professional answer. [[The president's ringing again.]] I ask Mr. President, and if there is, ten seconds of patience to protect our citizens together. It is our joint responsibility to ensure that measures are implemented in Hungary today in such a way that doctors, health workers and citizens are at the lowest possible risk. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-10-26-219	Thank you. Dear Parliament, MEP László Hajdu, DK Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. Whose government is it? It's an address. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2020-10-26-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I was also thinking of speaking with a simple subject after the agenda, which is the daily problem of the people living there, the simple problem of the day, and I think that I gave his address to say, "Whose government is he?" I first asked the Minister without a wallet, from which I expected a correct answer to a well-dressed, fair question, but it was negative. Rákospalota, one of the features of my constituency is that it is called the MÁV District; the first Hungarian railway between Pest and Vác was built here in 1846, 174 years ago. The railway has been a huge development for this region. New jobs, new plants and new settlements were built around the railway, and this is how Rákospalota developed. At the West Station there was a large repair shop. Of course, this repair shop grew very fast, and the biggest repairer in the country was built in Rákospalota on the property in Istvántelk. On the other side of the railway, New Rákos Palace developed. The MÁV itself has built a thousand-bedroom MÁV-service housing site, and in order to enable people, the new-Crab Palotans and the MÁV-workers, former employees and today pensioners or active employees, a pedestrian-overpass was built thanks to their repair professionals. This has been renovated several times, since it has been a 100-year-old overpass; it is an iconic structure. Without prior consultation and information, and that's why the question is: "Who's Government? The government sector has closed this overpass here with a railway stop which, due to the suburban railway, is increasingly busy; especially in the morning rush traffic, it also operates as a suburban railway, but there is an international line, there are three pairs of tracks at this stop, there is no consultation with the local government, there is no consultation with the local population, there is a sign that it is life-threatening and cannot be crossed. [[15.50]] I turned in writing on this matter, made it not a political matter, asked it correctly, and added annexes. They refused the request, the demand and the possibility of using it in the future under normal conditions, as the stop is a station between two rails in the middle, so it can only be approached through the overpass. Shutting down this overpass means now people, little children, and everyone else are wandering between the tracks. Well, a caring trustee, a caring government, can't do it without consulting, and they even wrote that the overpass is life-threatening, they don't want to renovate it, they're going to tear it down. This will probably mean that this railway stop, which has served Rákospalota for more than a hundred years, will operate through railway tracks. Given that it is an international line, I do not think that the responsible government can do this, but I do not want to renovate it. For example, in connection with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, we have taken 700 billion loans to build a railway that will never return, but here perhaps 50 million would be enough to build a pedestrian overpass. A caring government must have 50 million dollars for a structure that has been operated for a hundred years and which is also a bridge between Újpest and Rákospalota. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-26-221	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group asked for a speech:. More important decisions under the title Újpesten. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable House, and I would say Prime Minister. During your government's inhuman, devastating regale, the Hungarian health system collapsed. In the crisis, specialized care has fallen, and now they are trying to keep appearances above water by leading professionals and introducing military management. One of the alarming examples of the Fidesz administration period was the shocking case of having to amputate the feet of a three - year - old boy due to meningitis. When parents called the emergency room saying that the child had a very high fever, instead of sending a doctor, he told them on the phone to give the boy antipyretics. By the time the child was hospitalized the next day, it was too late, so the boy has to live without fingers and feet. The Democratic Coalition expected an immediate explanation from the government, but we didn't find out who was responsible. We demanded that the government free all vaccinations against meningitis. You have not done this, and you are waiting for someone else to do so. Fortunately, there are now examples where the Democratic majority of local governments know what to do for children and people. This is also the Újpest municipality, where a support system is introduced for the administration of rotavirus and meningitis vaccines to families with small children living in the district. For us, in Újpesten and Angyalföld, in my constituency, people, the Hungarian families are really important, which is why we launched the Summer Starter plus reward programme to better appreciate those who do the most for our children or families in need. We acknowledge the laborious work of the old people in Újpest with the .Újpest plus valuer. And here's an extraordinary, important step: the Újpest district management plans to provide some of the costs of rotavirus and meningitis vaccination to the families living in Újpest as a support. The aid is planned to be used for the vaccination of children born after 1 January 2020. For the three-dose vaccine series against meningitis for infants, local government support is expected to be HUF 22,000, and municipal support for two-dose vaccination against rotavirus will be HUF 6,000. With this, the municipality of Újpest can support families with HUF 28,000 per child for the above-mentioned vaccinations. I support the fact that every baby Újpest parent, if you want to take this opportunity for the health of your child, you can do so because, right, man is the most important value to you, too? I think that this would also be an example for the healthcare government that abandoned you. At the same time, in view of the difficulties caused by Fidesz, I am very proud of the municipality that, despite such difficulties, it is doing its best to represent the interests of the Újpest people among the opportunities available, and, in this sense, despite the fact that the current right is a party-state, centralizing withdrawal, it has found this opportunity. This is also particularly important because it can be seen that the austerity measures of the State Party when they were taken away from the car tax through the business tax, we could list what they took from the local authorities and took away, these fidesz austerity measures take away the resources from such important initiatives. NewPesten next year will be 2,000 million forints less than that which can be used to farm such opportunities. I only hope that, with responsible and precise management, the representatives of the Újpest municipality will find the possibility of funding for other programmes that are truly about the interests of the people, and will make every effort to make families, children, older people and young people feel safer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-26-223	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Varga, DK Group: the mayor of Debrecen admitted that Lajos Kósa had wasted HUF 750 million of EU funds to the unfinished intermodal centre in Debrecen. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-26-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Exactly a week ago, I was talking about a strange anomaly in Debrecen that has been slipping for ten years, building a major investment, the main station in Debrecen, changing the traffic junction around it and the space next to it. I was talking about the fact that the Debrecen people were not surprised that the construction was delayed, that a scrape had not taken place in this case, and that it was because Lajos Kósa and János Lázár had a quarrel over the cost of the investment. They are not so shocked that the saying on the market is so stubborn that it is not because of the cost of investment, but because of the constitutional costs the Lords of Fidesz could not agree on. What gives special interest to this, which I am talking about here: last week, the General Assembly in Debrecen again put the fate of this investment on the agenda. I could also say that we've had another chapter in the intermodal cabaret. The general meeting in Debrecen, of course to present the mayor, accepted a new plan in this regard, the mayor's submission that the general meeting of Debrecen should order from the NIF, from the National Infrastructure Development Ltd. the new feasibility studies of the main railway station, the new cost-benefit analysis, which of course will be paid by the municipality. Needless to say, all this will cost us Debrecen HUF 35.5 million. And let's not get into that right now, because it doesn't make sense that, according to the mayor's own declaration, the original plans for the investment that has been redesigned for many years now, from the fact that they're going to relieve the area from Highway 4 and bring it underground, that the long-distance bus station is going underground, that a completely new intermodal transport concept is going to be created, almost nothing will happen. Let's not get into the fact that they want to do this with a completely different technical content, all of which will not be planned in Debrecen, but at the desk of one of the ministries. The mayor says they're gonna know what the Debrecen want, but the Debrecens are gonna say, along with me, that they don't know what we want in the Ministry. [[16.00]] However, it is worth talking about in any way that DK, the representatives of the Democratic Coalition, admitted to my question that the project has been spent for the past ten years, despite everything we have seen, apart from the Kósa and Lazarus winks, without a hoof cut, but at least 800 million forints. We're talking 750-800 million forints, that's what the city paid for practically a few models, plans, studies, publicity, unnecessary communication, and God knows why, and then, the whole thing was thrown out in the trash. László Papp, mayor of Debrecen, admitted to my comment before the general assembly that the local government, which was then run by Kósa, was, by the way, the deputy mayor responsible for economic affairs, threw 750-800 million forints in the trash for no reason. But since then, he's been practicing self-criticism, says he. Write and tell me this has become 800 million forints of self-criticism, please, what the mayor, Lajos Kósa and the government are doing with one cynical shrug. Otherwise, the mayor calms the moods and reveals the relationship of the governing parties to public money, saying in the assembly that, come on, there is nothing to be afraid of, there is no need to be alarmed, it was not our money, it was a European Union resource. 800 million forints. For the politicians and government of Fidesz, according to Debrecen, EU money can be considered as found money, please, something that can be spent, burned, thrown in the trash, stuffed in the pocket of the Prime Minister's son-in-law or even whined as a constitutional cost, because it is not a pity. What was published last week would lead to an immediate investigation and serious punishment in a democracy, where a politician involved in such a case would fail. That's not what's happening here. This is Orbán's Hungary. This Fidesz was led by one of the largest cities, Debrecen today. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-26-225	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik Group asked for a post- Agenda address:. The Somogyszob-Balatonszentgyörgy railway line will be suitable for passenger transport in addition to criticizing the socialists. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-10-26-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The inhabitants of small settlements are permanently left alone without railway services. The length of the railway lines to be eliminated is nearly a thousand kilometres, which is more than 12 percent of the length of the entire Hungarian railway network. There has never been such a great deal of termination in the history of the Hungarian railway. In countries happier than us, the elimination of parallel services is solved in the opposite way: bus transport is stopped to shift traffic to environmentally friendly railways. While the railway in Europe is living the Renaissance, it is dying here. This is unprecedented throughout Europe. The cost of passenger transport is not covered by ticket prices anywhere. The government bled the railroad. Well, such and similar sentences appeared from fidesz circles, including from the mouth of former Minister of Transport János Fónagy in the summer of 2006. Dear fellow Members, If in 2006 you disagreed with the elimination of the railway lines, because it was still important for you to transport the people in the village, then why not today? If it was important for you then to protect our environment, then why not today? Then it didn't matter to you why the passenger transport was losing money, does it matter today? Walking around the country, seeing Hungary getting stronger, Hungary doing better, the economy raging. In fact, you still regularly complain to the socialists that rail passenger transport has been discontinued in many places. Last time I heard this was Lőrinc Nacsa in a meeting last week. But one question arises in the light of the fact that you have been ruling for ten years: why have you not been able to restore it? For example, the passenger transport on the line between Somogyszob-Balatonszentgyörgy. You know, this is the nearly 60 kilometers long railway line that connects the southern shore of Lake Balaton to Inner Somos. On the 127-year-old railway, passenger transport stops from 13 December 2009, only two to three freight trains per week crash through this line. I'm saying it's slipping because it can travel at a speed of 20 kilometers per hour on a track in extremely bad and refurbished condition. In the '80s, the trains were running 80 miles an hour. That's what they say we're making progress with age. Well, we're moving in the wrong direction. We need to redo this line. But not from 90 billion, as Lőrinc Mészáros used to do in Somogy, but from the renovation of the South Balaton railway line, or from the recently renovated Fonyód-Kaposvár railway, but still of good quality, usable materials. We believe that the area of Marcali must also benefit from rail development. This would be a great help for both the people who live here and the businesses that work here, a well-functioning railway. The people in the region love this railway line, and it shows that hundreds of people show up on the nostalgia train organised every year, as they did last Saturday. Ladies and gentlemen, At least the first step should be to repair the damaged railway charge next to Böhönye. I'm sure you'll recall that in the middle of July, the extraordinary flooding destroyed the railway charge, so you can't travel by train to Somogysob. And until you do that, I would like to recommend to you the thoughts of Gábor Bencsik, a journalist of the Democrat, which, if you will allow me, would now be quoted literally:, New-cake helicopter billionaires have received the country. The tired Bolsheviks will be replaced by KIS boys who run over anyone. Their credo is simple: what is profitable can go, what is paid for, must be stopped. The mail's gone. School's gonna end. The railway wing line's going down. But life can't be measured by payment. Anyone who does not understand this should not be involved in politics. And if you don't see that, you're gonna have to get him out of there. It's not the wing lines, so it's not the wing lines. It's with the new billionaires in power. It's their darido to be eliminated. Before they destroy millions of lives. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-26-227	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 2 November 2020. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
