u2020-05-06-0	Dear Parliament, The 21st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and György László Lukács will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2017, the National Assembly declared the 6th of May as the Day of Hungarian Sport. 145 years ago, the Hungarian Athletic Club, which was founded just a month ago, held its first outdoor tournament on this day. The first number was staged in a 100-yard run, and the winner became Gyula Porzsolt, who has done a great deal in his life to spread and promote sports in Hungary; between 1892-1898 he was also the president of MTK. On this day, he was the first to jump and run. Ladies and gentlemen, The spread of the new coronal virus has overridden everything in all areas of life, including sports. A year later, the Olympics and many other sports competitions were postponed. Sports fans cannot personally cheer for our athletes, they can only watch repeats in front of the screens. However, we can draw a lot from sport at this time too. Our athletes are an example: how to endure, fight, help our fallen competitor, cooperate with our teammates, even in a situation that seems hopeless. The Nobel laureate in the words of Albert Szent-Györgyi:, During the game, sports teach a man about the most important civil virtues in a short time: solidarity, self-sacrifice, complete subordination of individual interests, endurance, willingness to act, quick decision, self-esteem, absolute decency and, above all, the rules of fair play, the noble struggle. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, This year we will commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship that dismembers the territory of historic Hungary and puts a third of the nation under the jurisdiction of foreign states. In this connection, I would also like to remember those Hungarian athletes who have become the stars of their sport beyond the Trianon borders. Their success served and continues to strengthen not only the sense of Hungarian identity and belonging of their fellows across borders, but also those living in the mother country. We pay our respects to them on the day of Hungarian sports. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2014, the Parliament decided to declare 6 May a memorial day for the Jászkun self-renewal. 275 years ago, in 1745 Maria Theresa, the Hungarian queen, allowed the jas and kuns to redeem their old freedom and privileges. The ancestors of Jász and Kunok in Hungary are the XIII. They arrived in Hungary fleeing the Mongol invasion in the century. They were granted autonomy and tax exemption, and they owed the king military service. Over the centuries, they have settled in the Kingdom of Hungary, but they have maintained their special rights to the end. However, after the Ottoman liberation wars, they lost their privileges and sank into a serf. For decades, they have struggled to regain their rights and would have been willing to redeem their freedom with a huge amount of money. Finally, following the approval of Mary Theresa, the 18th edition of the book was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, which was published in the Official Journal of the European Union by Maria Theresa. During the greatest folk union of Hungary in the century, the population of the Jász-kun districts added up the amount needed for redemption, and the queen issued a document on the return of the lost privileges. Dear Parliament, The Jász-kun self-defense, which was carried out by force and cooperation, was called at the time, and after redemption the local government was restored, and the serfs became free peasants again. The redemption greatly strengthened the Jász and kun consciousness, which continues to affect us today, and although the autonomy of the Jászkun District ceased in 1876, the population and people still maintain their traditions and historical identities as exemplary as ever. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work by discussing reports. I call on my fellow Members, who do not wish to participate in this, to leave the Chamber in order, as stated in the Director-General's information published earlier. Dear Parliament, A parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2018 in the sphere of legal unity and control of local government standards, together with the joint general discussion of the resolution proposal for its adoption, until closure. Allow me to extend my compliments to Dr. Peter Darák, President of the Curia. [[It's a rare applause.]] The President's report B/6665. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee H/7915. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Darák, President of the Curia, author of the report. Mr. President, please.
u2020-05-06-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Curia is a supporter of the rule of law, it actively contributes to the development of law, supports legislation, effectively and quickly seeks to ensure uniform case-law. Based on the ancient tradition of Curia, it was established by the judgment of the 21st century. The foundation of the century, which is also borne out by the written report presented by you for the year 2018. As I mentioned in one of my previous expos, the publicity of court proceedings is a barrier to judicial power, the judge is under the control of the public. Since 2012, the Curia has in particular sought not only to pursue its judgment in public but also to make its legal unit work transparent and understandable. This principle guided me when I also defined the main objectives of our 2018 annual activity. [[9.10]] In 2018, significant changes occurred in the operating conditions of the Curia, which is why I considered this year a year of application of the new rules. This year the new Code of Civil and Criminal Procedure and the separate Code of Procedure on Administrative Procedure came into force. This was not unexpected, since in previous years he was prepared to apply the new procedural rules and contributed to the codification work of the Ministry of Justice. A further significant change in the life of the Curia was the fact that this year a new legal institution, a new legal institution that basically defined its work, began to apply, namely the establishment of a uniform practice for the authorisation of the review procedure. In parallel, of course, first instance courts had to be helped to deal with the new codes of procedure, to solve the first application problems. In this context, the Curia examined the judicial practice of the grounds leading to the rejection of the application in the form of a consultation panel, but later in the following year, in the context of a case-law analysis group. In the meantime, the report on this issue has already been completed and read on the Curia's website. In the Curia's guidelines on the principle of judicial protection becoming a mere formality without proper first-degree immersion, without the arrival of a sufficient number of individual cases, the Curia can easily become an ivory tower. It therefore strengthened the interpretations which, due to formal errors, do not allow the rejection of the forms of application without a substantive examination. Another significant event in the year 2018 was the transposition of legislative ideas on organisational reform of administrative justice into legislation. The basis of the discourse was that, on the one hand, Hungarian constitutional traditions and professional aspects, such as special public knowledge, may justify the examination of administrative disputes within a separate legal framework, and on the other hand, the basis of public law redress was already established by the 1989 amendment of the Constitution at the time of the change of regime, so the latest Hungarian administrative tribunal started in 1990 in the framework of the joint judiciary. Since then, the administrative judicial approach and the values of the judiciary have been very important, and therefore, in close legislative cooperation with the judicial wallet, we wanted to enforce the principle that these values, which have been gathering and multiplying since the change of regime, should not be lost in the context of organisational transformation. Finally, the organizational reform was also removed from the agenda through the 2019 amendment of the Fundamental Law, and no other judicial body replaced the Curia, so the emphasis was on ensuring a transition to the rule of law and preserving the administrative judicial approach to increase professional achievements since the regime change and on continuing the rapid and professional treatment of administrative matters. Therefore, the Curia has a statutory mandate to perform high-quality administrative top-court tasks. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned, the most important change for the Curia in 2018 may have been the introduction of the admissibility procedure in a significant part of the review procedures. We consider this to be particularly important because at last the Curia can decide for itself, leaving it to the parties' intent on which matters it considers to be so important for the functioning of the legal system and for the unity of the case-law to be judged in substance. This is an exceptional opportunity and an exceptional task, the concept of which, its interpretation, its application determines the burden and practice of the Curia for decades. In 2018, the Curia sought to exploit the potential of new legal unit instruments to a large extent. Accordingly, eight sets of case-law analysis groups started their work, of which I would highlight the examination of national punishment practices, the practice of lawsuits relating to land traffic law, the practice of requiring compulsory psychiatric treatment and the questions of the amount of certain agreements relating to employment and of the employer's liability for compensation. Having discussed these issues in detail within the framework of the Judicial Committee, and the ladies and gentlemen present there made detailed comments, which I endeavoured to answer at the committee meeting, I therefore reject the more detailed presentation. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2018, the New Ptk continued to explore the legal interpretation issues arising from the application of the new civil code. In the context of the Advisory Board, notably on the elimination of joint ownership and liability for damages caused by breach of contract. In the same way, there have been serious comments on the effects of taking back the will made by the notary, and on the fact that the provisions on the termination of the lease, rent or lease contract give rise to derogations or cogens in the new Ptk. In 2018, the Curia took important steps to identify problems in the enforcement of the civil society register. The consultative panel on this issue met three times in 2018, and held, inter alia, on the question that the court could only impose a full deficit on one occasion in such registration cases, which greatly facilitated the possibility of registering rights-seeking social organisations. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on foreign exchange loan contracts this year confirmed the practice of the Curia and did not include any new aspects which would have required changes to the former guidelines of the Curia. In 2018, it was the Criminal College that carried out a very powerful legal unit activity, which took six criminal unit decisions, in the context of a set of questions relating to the criminal offences of child pornography on legal charges, an appeal against an investigative judicial decision, the power of prosecutor to partially lift house arrest, the interpretation of the concept of a person carrying out a public service mission, and the definition of the person who was the victim of a bankruptcy offence. The Civic Unit Council has taken an important decision on a unit of law which concerned the establishment of a personal duty exemption in respect of the imposition of unpaid charges in the enforcement proceedings following a civil action. Among the college opinions, it is worth highlighting the opinion of the College of Labour on employers' liability and the opinion of the College of Public Administration on certain issues relating to earth traffic matters, which laid down important items of law in respect of the procedural powers of the notary, the administrative body of agriculture and the Chamber of Agriculture. I would like to point out that, in recent years, there has been a number of spotlights on the issue of punishment, the question of prison execution, and there has also been a very useful case-law analysis on this issue, which has also looked at reintegration detention as a new legal institution. [[9.20]] The fact that the 2018 annual practice was an election year cannot be ignored and the Administrative College has assessed a large number of electoral remedies. In this context, a question raised by a Member on the part of the Committee on Judicial Affairs was a matter of voter involvement. In the meantime, I have answered this in writing. The examination of the repeal practice in administrative matters and the analysis of case law on the issue of data of general interest also brought together important conclusions on the judicial practice in this area. I would like to say a few words about the activities of the Municipal Council of the Curia in 2018. I have to say that in the many years of the City Council of the Curia, he carried out his task smoothly and quickly, and the judicial initiatives on the regulatory control of municipal regulations are increasing, out of the 42 new cases came on the basis of 29 judicial initiatives. In most of the cases, 35 cases were substantive, and in about half of them the motion was rejected and in half the decision to uphold the motion was taken. The most important area of municipal norm control remains the land tax and structure tax issue, so property-type local taxes, where we can also find joyful procedures where the motion itself was presented by the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, in view of the submission of such a motion, the municipality was willing to amend its decree in its own power, so the decision of the Curia was no longer necessary. This shows the deterrent effect of the legal institution. It should be pointed out that new legal rules on the proportionality of the tax had to be applied. 2018 was the year when the Curia first adjusted the assessment aspects of proportionality in accordance with the new legal provisions and moved the measure from an individual approach to the centre of the person concerned to an approach adapted to a wider range of taxable persons. This year, we found a decision to revise the municipal tax regulation, a land tax, and in this connection the Curia came to an important conclusion on the possible limits of the scope of the municipal tax. I would like to point out one more important decision, and this was our decision to establish the limits of public and private law institutions, whether the municipality acted as owner or authority when it gave regulation on public use. We have also come to a reassuring conclusion on this issue. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the opportunity to provide a brief oral summary of the written report. I look forward to your questions and opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-06-2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, author of the motion for a decision. Mr. President, please.
u2020-05-06-3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President of the Curia, Allow me, first and foremost, to welcome to our plenary session Péter Darák, President of the Curia, heads of the college and colleagues. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 117. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) (be) the President of the Curia submitted to the National Assembly the work of the Curia in 2018 on the provision of a legal unit and control of local government standards, B/6665. This report was discussed as a committee designated at the meeting of the relevant Judicial Committee on 6 November 2019. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law, the courts carry out judicial activities in which they decide on criminal matters, on private disputes determining the daily lives of citizens, and on the legality of administrative decisions. Following the preparation of previous years, new Codes of Criminal Procedure and Civil Procedure and the Laws on General Administrative Procedure and Administrative Trials began in 2018 in the judicial work. This highlighted the role of the courts and raised a number of challenges for its governing organisation in relation to the new legal unit decisions and the work of the case-law analysis groups. In the framework of the Commission's debate, the Judicial Committee heard a detailed report on the activities of the Curia in the 2018 legal unit. The Judicial Committee welcomed the efforts made to establish a reception procedure and certain judicial procedures for the abolition of joint ownership. The Judicial Committee agreed with the measures taken to eliminate the different penalty practices of the courts and to standardise the judicial practice of the re-regulated legitimate defence situation. The Committee supported the efforts of the Curia and the courts to standardise certain agreements relating to the relationship with the labour force and judicial practice concerning the amount of the employer's liability. Ladies and Gentlemen, Members of the Judicial Committee asked a number of questions about the relationship between the constitutional complaint and the ordinary court procedure, about the proposal of the Curia for legislation, about the internship training of the Curia, and about judicial decisions on elections. The committee listened to a summary of the President of the Curia in the role of local government standard control, in particular as regards local tax, public use and local construction regulations. The Committee concluded in the debate that the professional objectives of the Curia for 2018 had been fully met. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Judicial Committee at the meeting of the President of the Curia on 6 November 2019 entitled B/6665. His report was adopted unanimously by 11 votes in favour. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee shall be laid down in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/7915 submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) The President of the Curia recommends to this House a report on its proposal for a resolution. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] H/7915 submitted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. The President of the Curia recommends to this House a report on its proposal for a resolution. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-05-06-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Barnabas Hajas, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Barnabas Hajas: No, thank you.]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who also speaks about the pulpit. Congressman, you have the floor. [[9.30]]
u2020-05-06-5	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Mr. Peter Darák, Given that this is an extremely important subject, because one of the main branches of the division of power is the administration of justice, in particular the leadership of the Curia, so I thought that I would give the keynote speech from here on the pulpit, just like the chairman of the committee. I would also like to welcome Mr Barnabas Hajas, the new Secretary of State for Justice, who will be able to witness his first performance, and we wish you all the best of luck. [[Dr. Barnabas Hajas: Thank you.]] The President of the Curia, as head of the main judicial organization of our country, has a statutory obligation to report to Parliament every year on the activities and operations of the Curia during the relevant year. The report came in the second half of last year, and, as President Vejkey said, the Justice Committee discussed it at its meeting in November. During this hearing, we discussed the values of the report, the activities that have taken place, and I would also like to explain to the House that the Justice Committee has adopted it unanimously, and I would like to share the evaluation of the report with the honourable Members, and recommend it to their attention. Hungary's Supreme Court of Justice set itself a number of remarkable professional goals in 2018. I would perhaps like to describe the most important of these: ensuring uniform and high-quality case-law by exploiting the potential of the new legal unit instruments; reviewing the Curia's legal unit acts, which is one of the essential aspects in order to protect legal certainty; examining the legal interpretation issues arising from the application of the new civil order and civil code; exploring the problems of the application of the law relating to the registration of civil society organisations; continuing the internship programme; building the main advisory system; and the possibility of returning the Supreme Court to the old Palace of Justice in order to preserve the professional and moral authority of the Curia. Dear Parliament, One of the most important aims of the Curia is to standardise the practice of the application of judicial law in order to achieve, inter alia, a uniform position in criminal matters on the concept of the legality of the charge, its criteria for establishing the criminal unit for child pornography and, last but not least, the clarification of the various powers of the prosecutor, such as the partial lifting of house arrest pending the submission of an indictment. Dear fellow Members, Progress on the standardisation of case law is carried out by the case-law analysis groups of the Curia, an ex-criminal case-law analysis group, followed by administrative and labour law, civil and economic case-law analysis. In examining criminal case-law, I would like to highlight the setting up of an analysis group. The President also spoke about these analysis groups, such as the fact-based correction of national punishment practices after legal force, the revision of the working group on criminal proceedings, and the legal boundaries on the enforcement of individual and community needs, a working group on privacy protection. And obviously, all of us who are going to comment on the President's report are going to experience overlaps, as we could also talk about labour or economic and civil analysis working groups, but I think that there will be a greater opportunity to do so in the debate. I would mention that, as early as 2017, the case-law analysis group investigating the judicial practice of prison execution was set up, which, by the way, completed its work in 18 years and paid particular attention to this new legal institution, which, if I remember correctly, has been alive since 2014, to ensure so-called voluntary reintegration detention, i.e. the return to society and the possibility of return. In doing so, this working group concluded, inter alia, that Be. There is no mandatory protection under the directive, as is otherwise the case at the hearing, and the legal guarantee is itself bv. It shall be given by a Judge who may then, by way of a subsequent procedure, correct his own order. Dear Parliament, In the area of local government standard control, the President presented a number of examples of practice. I'd like to provide you with some statistics. The Municipal Council received 42 cases concerning the examination of municipal decrees, 29 of which were judicial initiatives, 69 percent of all cases, 12 government initiatives, and the President also mentioned the motion of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in that particular tax case. In view of this, the statistics that have existed since 14 years ago, the number of judicial initiatives has been the largest in recent years, and this has also been the case in 2018. Dear Parliament, The annual internship programme is also of particular importance, since, on the one hand, doctoral students can effectively carry out their research activities, learn about good practices in a practical context during the study of judgments, and on the other hand, these doctoral students may be a replacement at the senior advisor level. Dear Parliament, I would also like to point out that the year 2018 brought about a full reform of the Codes of Procedure in the field of Pp., i.e. civil litigation, criminal proceedings and administrative litigation. The report shows that the Curia was not caught off guard because it was a long preparatory process that I myself worked on in these cases with Mr Hajas State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, and that the appropriate time to prepare for the application of the new procedural legislation began, in the first year of application of the new rules, to develop a uniform practice of the new legal institution, the review procedure licensing, in accordance with the plans of the Supreme Court. Based on all of this, the Curia has developed its professional objectives for the year 19 and we will obviously learn this from the next report, and I would point out a few things. In the following five areas of inquiry, he set up case-law analysis groups in 18: practical questions of legitimate protection; examination of the grounds leading to rejection of the application; judicial practice of janitorial proceedings; examination of case-law on reduction and loss of recovery, survival; and invalidity in matters of employment. Dear Parliament, Overall, the Curia has performed its tasks at a high level and effectively, thereby improving the confidence of society in justice. In addition, the Curia does not only exercise the functions of supreme judgment, but as an institution, it is also the place for the formation and consolidation of legal practice, as well as the creator of the Hungarian legal tradition. Dear Parliament, In view of all this, the report is supported by the Fidesz Group and I ask that the other groups support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-06-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-06-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In the title of the report, he presented the report of the Curia in the context of the legal unit and the control of local government standards. When it comes to courts and judicial judgement, two very important words must always be kept in our heads, and it is never different from one judge or court leader: this is the truth, and the service. The pursuit of truth, material truth, must be the primary, and if the influence of the institutional system or politics in any way endangers the maximum pursuit of the truth, then we cannot talk about a democratic rule of law system. [[9.40]] The service: the service is included in the word "service," which means that the judges serve the truth, serve the laws and serve society, never at the level of either institutional or mentality, to call themselves "power." Another issue is that in our public-law system we call the power of the judge, but only because it is about the separation of powers, but in the content of the court, the word "power" cannot appear in any way. Society expects the Hungarian courts and judges to serve the law, serve the truth, and thus serve society, because without predictable judgment, predictable court system, society has no confidence in its country, its country. At the beginning of the report, we can read the following idea:, It will be possible for the Curia to return to the legal culture where the highest level of justice forum can consider which matters it considers to be important for the functioning of the legal system, for the unity of the case-law, so that it can assess them in substance. I must say, Mr President, that I am arguing not only with you, but also with the legislative majority, that the Curia has never been in a legal culture in order to carry out its duties which contain the requirements of the judicial system and the various substantive procedural laws. I have been a lawyer for 31 years, and I have not felt for a single day that the Supreme Court of Justice has ever had a lack of the principle that it has presented here, in this report, in legislative or institutional terms. I feel very badly that over the last ten years, the political and unfortunately the main organisations influenced by politics have been constantly suggesting that if at this time we had the first opportunity to carry out the mission to which we are authorised by law, we would be able to fulfil it. I believe that there has been no shortage in the last 31 years, either in a system of instruments or in legislative support or in the expectations of society. We read in the report that on 30 November 2016, a meeting was held with the heads of the Curia in which several public bodies, such as the SAO, the GVH, the MNB, the President of the Hungarian Bar Association, took part and proposed questions to be examined in the year 2018, namely: the legal boundaries for the enforcement of individual and community needs; the protection of private life; the examination of national punishment practices; the revision of legal force in criminal proceedings; administrative judicial practice related to migration; the practice of legal proceedings relating to the land traffic law; the practice of compulsory psychiatric institution treatment; certain issues related to employment; questions relating to the amount of the employer's liability for compensation. I must say that, as a lawyer, all of these are extremely important issues, and it is also a fact that we can certainly debate any one of them as a topic of legal consultation for hours on the fact that these issues really belong to the competence of the Curia to give some orientation to the law-abiding judges and, through this, society in the various decisions and legal relationships that apply to them. But I have to say, Mr President, there are some issues in this society that have not been settled for a decade now, and I do not think it is special if I am talking about the issue of foreign exchange credit. You know, nine years ago, I have tried not to reach him alone, along with many of my colleagues, to apply the legal principles of these relations, without which there is no civil law, the principles that have been unchanged since Roman law cannot be overwritten, and they cannot be ignored when the judges are supposed to judge these matters. I think that this line of work is missing. Although you later mention the question of foreign exchange lending from the perspective of the Curia, I do not think that is sufficient, I will explain this in that part. In addition, the report says that the aim of this year was to provide a clear solution to the theoretical issues that arise as soon as possible in workshops with a wide range of aspects. All of this can help to ensure that cases are dealt with quickly and in a high-quality manner. And then he discusses the legal interpretation issues arising from the application of the new civil order, for which he has set up a consultative body. I do not wish to list these, but I must say, and of course it is not in any way the Curia's fault that most of these issues are legislative issues. Couldn't it have been when the new civil order was created, for example, to pay attention to the use of illegal evidence, or to how the reduction of costs could have been achieved through appropriate or temporary regulation? Ladies and gentlemen, The legislator repealed the IM regulation on the reimbursement of costs under the old civil procedure, which is about what the conditions for granting reimbursements were in cases opened before 1 January 2018, and, after a number of lawsuits started before 1 January 18 are still pending to date, and the question of cost reductions may occur even later, not at the beginning of the trial, so there was no other way than the Curia's position to apply the rules of an IM regulation that no longer applies. My apologies, this is not a question of the Curia, this is not a question of the work of the Curia's legal unit or interpretation, this is a legislative issue, or, for example, the summoning of an expert or the rules governing the formal submission of an application. Please don't say, please, none of you, a lawyer, that any of these practical issues, which are in this report, couldn't have been expected by the legislator as a matter of fact. The legislation is precisely that I try to clarify all the issues that may arise in the application of the rules in question. This is why there are preliminary consultations over a decade in order to ensure that the application of the new civil order does not start with a flood of questions, but is applied in a calm, empowered, transparent, fair and uniform manner by the judges. It says in the report that justice should be served on the charge of not paying attention quickly enough to different key problems. I have to say, Mr President, and, again, this is not for you, but you have been targeted, it has been amazing in recent years how pro-government politicians have attacked judicial decisions. The judges are subject to the law, must comply with the provisions of the law and must conform to the facts revealed. What would be very interesting is that, for example, in the case of various crimes, where the facts, the victim and the perpetrator were completely different, other circumstances led to it, he used a different system of tools, a different history of the perpetrator, a different series of conflict situations that might lead someone to commit a crime, or even carry out a crime, do not say that each case can be pushed into an approach, into a type of judgment! [[9.50]] It was shocking to me that this was addressed to the President so softly. I believe that these political attacks should have been strongly rejected. Now, there's either an independent judicial power or there isn't. And the fact that you're launching a campaign against a judge because you've decided on a particular issue... yes, Mr President, I was very annoyed when the Győr Court of Justice in the Marian Cozma case so shamefully reduced the punishment of some of the perpetrators. Of course, I was angry because I thought it wasn't for the truth, yes. But I wouldn't have thought to start personally accusing members of the judge board of some kind of bias. But does this lead to the conclusion that the result of the completed crime from Nyíregyháza to Szombathely brings a single judgment where the judgment of people with no criminal record and those who have already been punished is more uniform because the nature of the crime is the same? ! I ask you very nicely, not even by chance, Mr President, to allow this political influence and this political influence to continue in the work of the courts. The report also states that it is therefore not the task of the legal unity groups to find immediate answers, but, for example, to monitor the new Ptk practice on a continuous basis, to signal key problems. Yeah, that's okay. However, we do not want the work of the different legal groups to go so far as to redefine the provisions of the legislation according to political expectations, to explain that the purpose of the legislation is not the original legislative intention, but to subject the Curia's decisions to other influences. It continues that the Board met three times in 2018 and, albeit without the need for completeness, listed a few topics that were dealt with; for example, the issue of party formation, in which, in addition to the payment of membership fees, the performance of the financial contribution, the zero balance sheet and the rest are included. I do not want to go into detail, but I would like to draw Mr President's attention, and this is from my personal experience. When a party is established, when it is not preceded by an association, the legislation describes the various certificates and documents to be submitted in order to register a newly formed party. It is statutory that a balance sheet must be submitted. Yeah, but a non-existent organization doesn't have a balance sheet. In my own practice, I have tried how this process will go on, because although it is a fact that if an association is transformed, it really needs a balance of assets, since it is transformed from one organisational form to another, but when I establish an organization as new, how can a balance of assets be submitted to the non-existent entity? I ran it through the justice system, and it was a shock to me that judgmental judges say that yes, there is no real organization, so it doesn't have a balance sheet, but then at least it should have been done to submit a zero balance sheet. What do you mean, zero balance sheet? There's no way in hell if I don't have a fortune, there's nothing to take stock of. Now, Mr President, after decades of legal practice, it is not possible for judgmental councils not to introduce fully clear and well-known fundamentals into a decision, and not to say that, yes, the legislator probably did not pay attention to the fact that there would be a party not from an association, but to form a party? And at least what should have been done was to suggest to the legislator that such an exception be made, that it is an exception when the organisation is new. I only thought that this was what I was talking about, Mr President, because believe me that everyday life would really have a lot of tasks for the judiciary to indicate to the legislator the shortcomings that make meaningful decisions difficult, fair decisions. And then I'd like to get to the foreign exchange issue. The report says that in the context of nullity proceedings, the consultative body collecting and negotiating questions and indications sent by the courts continued its work in 18 and decided in October 18 that the Court of Justice of the European Union C-51/17. On the basis of the resolutions raised in judgment No. 13, the Curia has no further task because it considers that this decision does not contain any new aspects which would require the amendment of any guidelines and that the validity of each contract should be judged by the courts in individual proceedings. In this explanatory statement, and I apologise for the fact that I am going to read some of these sentences, but the European Court of Justice says the following. The above finding does not mean that any other contractual condition, such as that relating to exchange rate risk, would also be completely excluded from the scope of this Directive, i.e. it could not be examined in accordance with this Directive. And you'll describe it to the 93/13. The fact that certain conditions which reflect legislative provisions are removed from the scope of this Directive does not mean that the national court may no longer examine the validity of other conditions contained in the same contract and not covered by any legal provisions. It describes that the DH1 and DH3 laws have exclusively introduced the legal institutions that led to the settlement but did not resolve the issue of exchange rate risk. He didn't settle the borrower's clear information rights, and the rest. Mr President, I believe that 1 million 200 000 contracts have been concluded, which are at least affected, if you look at family members, 5 million people in a group of cases where there is no doubt about the fact that financial institutions have not acted fairly, have provided misleading information. If you don't even look at the lawsuits to prove it, you can see on the internet, on different paper surfaces, the influence materials used to bring debtors into this blissful legal institution. All judges also know that the principle of equal treatment contained in the Fundamental Law was exceptionally violated with the final repayment of HUF 180, because in the same legal relationship, the person who could obtain money in two months was granted this opportunity, the person who did not have such a source within two months with a debtor position, is excluded. At that first point, the principle of equal treatment was violated. Then the decisions of the Curia will be made, the decisions of the European Court of Justice will be taken, and in 2020 we will still be in confusion with judges, confusion with debtors and confusion in the minds of lawyers; because, therefore, this issue should not be a mess. If a simple contractor undertakes to deliver cement at a certain price and, for an external reason, the price of that cement triples during the performance of the contract, what happens? The defendant cannot fulfil the same conditions because, for reasons beyond him, the conditions for performance of the contract have changed significantly. Hasn't the circumstances changed in this package of cases, foreign currency lending, regardless of the debtor? Those major changes didn't happen? If this was the only principle in which the legislator or the judges had ever started, we would have been over dealing with this social tragedy. Or the other fundamental principle: I just have to do what I actually did, not more. What can I do, what can I do? I can take what I have in my possession of all his knowledge, and I know what I've done. Well, in these cases, no one could have known, even the officials of financial institutions said that we didn't know what the debtor was going to do. So even he didn't know, the professional organization! [[10.00]] Therefore, with great respect, I would like to ask the President of Curia that he cannot stop until the last treaty is in force or the implementations have been completed, and this issue cannot be put aside. It must be done by applying the same principles of law as those applied by the courts in any other legal relationship, that they cannot be left alone and not finished. He says it's a question of the Justice Palace. I don't think the Curia and the Supreme Court have ever worked under conditions in which they couldn't carry out their mission. Of course, I am always glad that if middle-working people work in the highest possible conditions both in infrastructure and in the environment and in professional support, but I do not think that the quality of the Curia's activities will depend on whether it sits in Markó utca 16 or Kossuth tér 7. So I ask the judges with great respect that it is not the form, but the content that should be important. In 2018 it was initiated to conduct 11 legal unit procedures, and of which only one was born with regard to the obligation to pay a levy on a person free of charge... I was amazed at this 11:1 ratio, because, therefore, those who initiated it did not see the problem of the questions raised in such a significant part? I feel that this number is very small, although there is no justification in the report for the rejection of the other ten, but I believe that this number is too small compared to the initiative. And then I just want to talk to you about two more questions. He said that closed cases were investigated from the point of view of what errors the judges had made, what caused the repeal decisions, and that they had done so in some way to develop the case law professionally. I must say that I am quite surprised by the procedural and substantive errors that have arisen: misalignment of parties, failure to intervene, procedural errors in the right to seek, errors in application, extension, misallocation of the burden of judicial instruction, misalignment of the burden of proof, errors in the procedure of proof, such as taking into account facts of public knowledge, incorrect findings of expert evidence or insufficient justification, and, in fact, in substantive matters, all the decisions of the Constitutional Court, of the Union and of the Curia which, if you do not like it, must be applied in the course of the case-law. I must say, Mr President, that these trivial mistakes, as I, whether you like them or not, consider them trivial mistakes in terms of practice, if such mistakes are made by doctors in the course of surgery, there will be either death or deterioration of health. Just because a judicial decision or a mistrial does not endanger people's lives directly, but it can lead to a huge social mistrust, I would like to ask the President of the Curia with great respect that, although zero tolerance may be excessive, there should be a greater, more serious consequence of judicial errors. I stress, not in the decision, because no one can interfere with it, but in complying with the legislation, I think we could expect quality work, especially because one has improved significantly over the last decade, and this is the financial perception of judges, a significant improvement in their financial and income conditions. The various topics defined for 2019, which the Curia would like to focus on in relation to college opinions are legitimate protection, application, janitorship, and the rest are listed, and I am very pleased to do so, but I would like to recommend another topic to your attention. Unfortunately, this is also linked to the issue of foreign exchange credit. I'm sure you all know that the biggest tragedy with regard to foreign exchange credit contracts was notaries. Because the notaries, whether you like it or not, may be executed on a unilateral request without the financial institution having to account for it, without having to show that its claim is real. This was really the tragedy of this, because the multitude of financial institutions endorsed notaries, they took the real estate with out-of-court execution without ever having to account for it to the institutions. Yes, but there were a number of situations where, for some reason, the property ownership of the underlying property was transferred to someone else, so the pledge quality was not covered by a notary deed. The notary instrument shall be exclusively enforceable against or enforceable against the party to which it is committed. The notary document itself, as long as it is only a document, is not an enforceable document, it requires one more act, the so-called endorsement. Since there were many such situations that the person of the pledge had changed, there was no notary document that could have been declared enforceable against him, and so there was a need to bring lawsuits against the new pledges, so-called tolerance lawsuits. Yes, but in these tolerance lawsuits, the financial institutions were faced with the fact that half of their claims were not true, since all objections could be presented to the pledge party, expert opinions, complicated, long litigation. It turns out that the claim was not just so much, but not nearly as much, and it was increasingly difficult to enforce the financial institutions, and even the experience from these trials was used in other proceedings against the institutions. Therefore, notaries were placed under pressure to establish the succession of the original notary to the pawnier without the pledge never having undertaken such a deed. Several notaries felt that this was not going to work, since this was a total violation, and many rejected these requests. Then he gets out of court, and the court is shocked to me by the enforcement law 39. The Court or notary may decide that if there is succession after the issuing of the enforceable instrument. However, the enforceable document is not the original notary, but when it is already endorsed. And with reference to such an enforcement procedural issue, they decide on a substantive succession issue! Unfortunately, this has been done in many places, and the Szombathely General Court, Budapest Surroundings Tribunal is putting pressure on notaries. These cases will not get to the Curia, because unfortunately there is no legal possibility, but it will generate a fully illegal case law that is extremely detrimental to citizens. I only thought, Mr President, that I would tell you this about the report, for example, because the report contains the question of foreign exchange credit. The Curia has made countless decisions in this regard, and the European Court of Justice has given guidance both to the Curia and to the courts regarding practice. Do it, Mr President, and look into this question, because it cannot be allowed to carry out claims that have not been clarified over the multitude of people with fully illegal provisions. This society can't take it, and it doesn't have to. Finally, all I would like to say as a closing point is that if someone, a lawyer, has a duty to trust the Supreme Court, simply because if they do not trust, then the whole rule of law is nothing, but it does not make sense. All I ask with great respect on your journey from every judge in Curia is justice and service, the service of justice. If so, society will trust him; if he sees a deficit, if he does not see such a spirituality, he will not trust him. And for their own sake, for their own sake, there is no point in maintaining institutions just to serve the salvation of our people and our society. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-05-06-8	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group has set out two key speakers. I give the floor first to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Thank you very much for your report, the 2018 report, which, as in previous years, is an informative, meaningful and appropriate report; obviously, the work of the Curia is comprehensive. [[10.10]] I am not going to give my speech comprehensively about the report myself. The fact that we shared the speaker's speech with my fellow Member László Szakács also concerns his comments on certain groups of cases, myself on other subjects. First of all, if we are already talking about the year 2018, I would like to make some comments about the elections and the electoral procedure, because if we talk about the year 2018, we can see clearly from the report and obviously also from the public that it was a particularly stressful year for the Curia. On the one hand, it was a burden on the burden of the case, since, in view of the parliamentary elections, the Curia had to work with a very high number of cases, which, moreover, had to be assessed with a very short deadline of only three days. This was, therefore, the point that I made with regard to the burden of the case. The high level of the case number can be seen in the report, as it can be seen that the Curia had to make decisions in dozens of election cases. The report itself mentions that the College of Public Administration and Labour of the Curia has also adopted a summary opinion drawn up by the case-law analysis group examining remedies in relation to electoral and referendum procedures. At this point, it is worth mentioning that the Curia carries out an extremely high level of high-quality redress in relation to electoral matters, which not only leads to more informed decisions than those of the electoral committees, but in many cases of the Constitutional Court. However, there are some circumstances in the electoral procedure in respect of which it is worth reviewing its previous practice or actually issuing a resolution. These, in my view, and obviously this position as an opposition representative of this year, are also underpinned by practical experience. At present, the Curia and the courts accept very narrowly the involvement in the election case, which, due to the limitation of the right to appeal, leads to the fact that, in an election case, the objector has no right to appeal, and this is clearly contrary to the right to appeal or to the courts. It would be useful to re-examine this area and at least open the right of appeal a little wider. My second point is this: very little attention is given to the rules of proof in the electoral procedure. Unfortunately, the electoral procedure is not aware of the urgency of proof, and the election committees are respectful of the exception, but most of them are not active in order to obtain evidence in this regard, and in many cases even deny such requests, despite the fact that they are essential to clarify the facts. This often makes it compulsory for the objector or the applicant to prove negative facts or facts which, by reason of their nature or inability to obtain them, are impossible, and this leads to unfounded decisions in my view. It would be worth examining in detail the rules of evidence applied to the Curia in the electoral proceedings, which would lead to more informed decisions and perhaps also reduce the workload of the Curia during the elections. And the third of these circumstances are related to election meetings. As a result of the inclusion of electoral assemblies under the assembly law, drasticly different practices have developed in different parts of the country. There are settlements, such as Miskolc, where settlements due to the collection of two-person recommendations have to be announced, in other places, such as Győr, the announcement of the collection of recommendations is unnecessary regardless of size, while only the electronically announced election meeting is accepted in Budapest, but not the one announced on the paper basis. In view of this, it would be extremely necessary to standardise the relevant case-law in my view. Obviously, my comments on the election year concern the case law of the Curia, but I think that this House should consider what legal bases it should, of course, clarify or clarify in order to guarantee the cleanliness of the elections, of course, this statement is also true. In addition, I must point out that the other major challenge facing the Mansion in 2018 was that of my fellow Member, who had said before me, that the government had committed a hypocritical and incontrovertible attack on the court system, including, in practice, on the Mansion. It was then that the Law on Administrative Courts was also adopted in 2018, which would have allowed a tremendous political influence on the part of the God in which he had been granted to the government in administrative matters, thus dividing a significant part of the remainder of the judicial independence, according to my opinion. He is pleased, however, that Mr President will be able to report on the practice of the administrative courts not only in relation to the activities of 2018, but also in relation to the activities of 2019 and 2020. As I said, Mr President, we thanked you for your report, and in previous years we were supportive of the report. We also believe in the separation and independence of powers, so it is very important that we discuss this report year after year. However, we would like to ask you this time to consider our comments, perhaps in view of the sensitivity of the year 2018, as we are doing them constructively. László Szakács will continue his speech. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-05-06-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, another lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would also go on where my fellow Member László Varga left off, we believe in the separation of powers, we believe that judging, lawmaking, of course, are independent branches of power that are nevertheless interacting with each other, so it has some kind of supervisory role, because the Curia is reporting here, because the Curia, the court, must also apply the laws that the legislator creates. Continuing with Andrea Varga-Damm's argument that her justice or justice is in the position of the court to apply the law that the Parliament accepts, but it does not matter under what circumstances the Parliament has adopted certain laws, and I will come to a certain group of affairs, which may have received an unappreciably little attention in Mr President's report, and I understand Mr President, because it is not an easy situation. We have heard that there were eight groups of committees, a body that supervised and examined the case law, but in the case of foreign exchange credit, a consultative body was established. The consultative body that could not be today, because last December, a decision was taken not to issue communications that could affect judicial practice. It is true that it has influenced it until then, but since then such communications cannot be issued, and the consultative body, which, let us say, is not an integral part of it, is not, therefore, an attribute of the justice system itself or even of the Curia's system, which we can perceive as being accountable either by the President of the Curia or by other court forums. [[10.20]] Unfortunately, today, even the annual practical programme has been given more attention than the practice in, or the debate on, foreign exchange-credit matters. I'd like to talk a little bit more about it here in the legislature. This is because, as I said, Mr President is not in an easy position, the Curia and the judges are not in an easy position, because they can only apply the laws that the Parliament has created. It is also important that the circumstances under which the Parliament created these laws. I am talking about dh laws, foreign exchange loan laws, which were born after the government reached an agreement with the European Development and Reconstruction Bank, the EBRD in February 2015, in which the Hungarian government undertook that the forinting would not cost banks a penny, the forinting of foreign exchange credit contracts would not cost banks a penny, nor did it cost banks. The Hungarian government has undertaken not to raise any obstacles to eviction, emptying the property, and enforcement. This is the spirit in which these laws were born, and obviously this is the only way the cure can apply, which is why we say that the court is not in an easy position. Here in Parliament, however, we must use the opportunity to say that civil society organisations, individuals, lawyers who see this case-law differently, the victims who turn to us are worth more attention. Now there are 117 thousand real estate in the process of being executed, 1,700,000 contracts should be recalculated. In our view, it cannot be addressed with a sentence, with a line, that the judgment of the European Court of Justice has not brought about a new fact on the basis of which it is necessary to review the caselaw, since then, Mr President, the court takes the view, for example, as regards exchange rate risk, that I refer to the judgment of the European Court of Justice of C-51/17 that, in fact, as regards exchange rate risk and information on exchange rate risk, it is the debtor who made a mistake. The Court takes the view that the debtor should have known where to start and to what extent the foreign exchange rate would start, since in general the judgments against debtors are issued in these cases and not in the judgments against the banks. The debtor made a mistake based on these, if we don't change it, we can't, but obviously the Curia can change the case law. The bank should not have foreseen the exchange rate risk, nor should the central bank have had to foresee it, nor should the commercial bank, but the debtor. The only one who doesn't have an apparatus, doesn't have professional skills, and it's simply not what the central bank or the commercial banks would do. The European Court of Justice held that it was necessary to look much more closely, not only at the mistake it made, but also at the person who took this loan. Are you sure it's just the person who took this loan, and you're sure that the person who paid this loan, who assessed the debtor's incomes, his assets, put it under risk analysis, and then paid this amount? Let's hope he's willing to pay it back. I can't even think about it if that wasn't the intention of the debtor paying it back, because we call it a robbery loan if it's just the property. We therefore believe that it is worth a deeper analysis in these matters, when we take it into account with just one sentence that the judgment of the European Court of Justice has not brought any new facts on the basis of which the practice needs to be changed, because if it has not brought new facts, then, indeed, neither the central bank nor the commercial bank had to know about the possibilities of moving the exchange rate, but the debtor has, and he has to pay for it now. Then came another verdict. This may be the year 2019, and obviously it will also be negotiated someday, but if it can be said today, then perhaps the lessons to be learned from this can be used. It is about Case C-118/17 that responsibility must be shared, precisely because the European Court of Justice has recognised that it is not possible that all circumstances, starting from the parities of interest to the movement of foreign exchange rates and its directions, must be recognised, properly assessed and taken by the debtor, but probably also by the bank which has the professional apparatus, which pays attention to them and pays the loan to the debtor on this basis, we trust him once again, with the intention that the debtor can repay it. It therefore proposes the sharing of damage. To this end, this consultative body, which has no longer been able to issue a communication that could influence the case law, has had an impact on the case law, has taken the view that the correct case-law is that, if the debtor wins the lawsuit, his foreign exchange credit can be converted into a forint loan which he has never otherwise requested, he would not have received even if he had applied for it and subsequently had to do so. Our position is, and we have talked a lot about it, and perhaps it is right to discuss such a report, that we should also talk about and share with the President and the Honourable House these thoughts, which come from defenders, civilians and lawyers, that, by the way, international examples show otherwise, are fundamentally different from those of the Hungarian case-law than those of the countries around us. In Hungary, in order to protect banks, they want to cure contracts, contracts that cannot be cured without giving the debtor a strike of mercy. We believe that these contracts should be placed on another fund, that new bank accountability should be made. It's obviously not the Curia's job, it's the law. However, the practice of the Curia that cures bad contracts either in the same way, and that is why I mentioned last year's example that if the foreign exchange lender wins the lawsuit, they will turn his foreign exchange credit contract into a HUF-based loan that he did not ask for, but probably could not have received, which only proves that even the case law is forced by this agreement with the EBRD to cure bad contracts. Our position is that in the case of one-tenth of Hungarian society, new legislation is needed so that neither President nor the Curia nor the court are in such an unpleasant situation. We think we need to talk about this openly. The political influence that the government created in February 2015 and in which it undertook to serve the interests of the banks undertook not to protect Hungarian families, not to create any obstacles to evictions, to commit that banks could not afford a penny forinting, which brought about this legal environment. This agreement must therefore be terminated in the first place, with reference to the fact that it is not in the interests of the Hungarians, it is against the interests of the Hungarians. It can then be talked about and given the opportunity to adopt laws with a new accountability that do not put courts in such a position. One last point. The judgments of the European Court of Justice, we all know, are binding on the courts of the Member States, must be dealt with in the spirit of them. [[10.30]] And it's easy to say that he hasn't brought up any new facts, and I see that the Curia and the consultative body have basically chosen this way to say that it's easy; then let's say that he hasn't brought any new facts. Then the question should be asked: if you have not brought any new facts, and everything was all right, Mr President, why have you made such a provision in the last year that if someone deviates from these practices of the Curia, then it is not possible to justify them in general, to justify precisely where he has departed and why the judge has deviated. This may make it seem that it will further strengthen the need for adjustment that has not been small; and we see that this practice is going on. We are confident that the procedure initiated by the Győr Court before the European Court of Justice, C-932/19. will correct this issue properly, and we hope that it will not only be dealt with with with a rabbit's tail of sentence, which is obviously caused by coercion and this embarrassing situation, that the laws may have been born under such circumstances, but that appropriate judicial practice may also arise; perhaps judicial practice may arise where a debtor may even win a lawsuit. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-06-12	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-06-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I also welcome President Peter Darák and his colleagues. I'm glad you're here with us. I would like to begin by saying, as a zero point, that, as every year or for several years now, we are discussing one by one the annual accounts of the Curia, the OBH and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, and again I must say or say that the Curia is by far the most professional, correct and realistic report, which is, of course, a compliment to the Curia's report; and this is closely linked to this agenda. But, of course, this is a serious criticism of the other two accounts; we will, of course, tell you the details of that criticism there. It seems to be technical, but I would like to start by saying that I do not know, I do not understand why the report on the year 2018 is being discussed a year and a half later by Parliament in May 2020. It certainly wasn't up to the Mansion, because the date of the report was last July, so it's been on the table for ten months, by the way. It is difficult to explain why the Justice Committee discussed this in November, but it has still been six months. This is an important detail, ladies and gentlemen, because this means that a year and a half later we have to reflect on the processes of at least a year and a half ago in the report, which makes this conversation a little anachronistic or this debate a little bit anachronistic. The shorter the time between the two acts, the more recent, the more up-to-date the things that we have recorded; and there have been a number of problems that have been raised since then, which, of course, cannot be called into account in the report, but we must mention it, I will do the same now. The question arises, of course, that this is not a coincidence, but that even the honourable pro-government gentlemen consciously plan the timing of these reports in order to remove as much as possible the two dates, the completion and the negotiation of the report, so as to make it less timely as possible what is set out in the report. Beyond this problem, I would like to begin to highlight some of the issues that have been mentioned either by the President or by the report, or something that I am painfully lacking in the list. The report also mentions that the main topic, the main case, was the implementation of the procedural reform in 2018, as the new civil order came into force at the beginning of the year, and then the Code of Criminal Procedure in the middle of the year. In this context, the procedure and the system of handling and handling submissions on a uniform basis had to be established. As far as we can see in the spring of 2020, we can say that this has been a success, we believe that the Curia has done its job well, and obviously in the last year and a half some minor corrections have been thought of, but this is also natural for a process of this magnitude. The report mentions these specific case-law analysis groups and already highlighted their work in the previous report for 2017. This is indeed a forward - moving solution, in our view, for us to make progress on certain matters. Obviously, it is always possible to argue that these groups should have been set up in these eight areas, or perhaps instead of others, or, if these eight areas have been highlighted, in particular, individual cases and types of cases are indeed the most important ones that the substance lists. In addition to these issues, I am sorely lacking topics that have otherwise affected people's daily lives or affected them in recent years. For example, I miss this type of treatment of domestic violence; judicial treatment of hate crimes; in some context, exclusion, judicial treatment of cases of discrimination or animal cruelty as a subject. With regard to the administration of these judges, I think it would also be worthwhile to look at them and look at them. The report indicates that the application of the civil procedure has been examined in the context of the press adjustment cases. I have to say here that the Democratic Coalition and our politicians are bringing a lot of press correction lawsuits. 90 percent of these are won, but there is a general process, which has now been going on for years, and a process in the wrong direction, in our opinion, namely that the courts interpret the fact and opinion in a very broad or different way. More and more, fact questions are considered to be opinions, and therefore, in fact, the category in which press-repair lawsuits or no longer can be launched is expanding, because of our well-conceived self-interest, because it has a high chance of losing them, or they are actually doomed to fail. This is a very dangerous trend, in our opinion, and in this context and in fact in these lawsuits, I often mention that we also feel uncertainty about the concept of the public figure and the judicial judgement of the public figure. We've run into this type of situation several times. The report mentions the planned move of the Curia to the place of the former Museum of Ethnography. In addition to the symbolism of the case, I can't help but mention that it doesn't come out naturally from the material, because this report doesn't have to reveal whether this move of the Mansion or the decision on it was a rational decision. There are also expert opinions available on the Internet that say that actually this building is small compared to the operation of the Curia, it will be small, they cannot place all colleagues or the building cannot provide the XXI. In the 18th century, it is expected that the offices will be able to operate in practice. Perhaps the representative of the government could comment on this. I also read in the report that there was also a work paper on the publicity of data of public interest in the workshop of the case-law group. This is a very important area for us too. The report itself mentions that the number of these cases is increasing. It is important to deal with this, however, in addition to the many, indeed, issues mentioned by the working group, I would like to add one more: it is now a regular practice that, although the data controllers after the trial, I would add the data not by themselves, but by suing, but by releasing the data, but by putting those data before us in a format that does not help us in the original purpose, so the purpose of getting to know, processing and analysing the data. [[10.40]] So we feel uncertainty in particular, and this is where we feel uncertainty at the court stage that the controller can defend or do to say, please, that I have transmitted the data, because although in bulk he copies the numbers in Excel tables and says that he has handed them over. We've got cases now, and we're gonna start lawsuits because we think this isn't right, and we don't think it's right. Moreover, the report at the very end mentions the issue of autonomous administrative jurisdiction. In 2018, there was a slightly different situation in this field than today, but there is also an outlook in the report for the current situation, which I thank specifically. However, I would like to ask the government's public representative where we are with the case of independent administrative justice. I understand that this has been set aside for the time being. Is this a temporary set aside or ice, or has the government finally stopped trying to do that? As a further topic, I would like to suggest to the Mansion that the question of the courtability of the decisions of the State Court of Auditors is in order. We don't think so. At present, the decision of the State Audit Office is in fact made in the form of reports, so there is no administrative act or, if there is one, we do not know about it, as the person concerned, we do not receive any information about it. For example, there is now a special case between DK and the State Audit Office for such an act by the State Audit Office. In the meantime, there are legal consequences for the SAO's reports of this type. So we think that it is not okay that they are not suable, but simply that the SAO describes something in the report, and then it is so, and that all other public bodies, such as the Treasury, will perform it in a servitude, as it has received it. Finally, as I would like to join in the suggestion made by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, we believe that, in the case of specific judicial decisions or judges or negative remarks by certain pro-government politicians, or by the judge, in connection with the judiciary, in the event of a political attack, we do believe that in the past, the Curia should stand up more firmly and defend judges and defend the independence of the courts, reject such attacks, and make it clear that, indeed, the judiciary must be independent, independent of the government. With all these comments, I would like to thank you very much for the detail and thoroughness of the report, and I would like to recommend DK's support on this issue. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-06-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have speeches from Members. In the first round, if this is required, two-minute speeches are possible. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I'm asking if there's any further speeches. Other representatives of Mr Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz Group, have spoken. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-06-15	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Several commented on the subject of the restoration of the original function of the Palace of Justice, the building of the old Hungarian Royal Palace. Some said that content is the primary and not the form. I think they're both important. A number of people here have been talking about content issues. I think that building was built for the Palace of Justice, not only because the statue of the goddess of truth is the statue of Károly Seneyei above the timpanon, or I could talk about the two Fadrius statues, or even the Lotz fresco; it was built specifically according to Hausmann's plans between 1893 and 96. And by the way, it is typical of the communist dictatorship that they changed its function in 49, as did the buildings in the castle. So it is true that the past should be wiped out, so that nothing reminds me of the function of the former buildings. And what did they do, you might even say, smack in the face of these buildings? The Labour Movement Institute and then the Political History Institute, which, after a long lawsuit, now needs to move out of this building. It is clear that today's modern circumstances expect in many respects electronic administration, the role of informatics, which in many cases can trigger personal and personal presence in this building, so I think that, as the Parliament is meeting in the Parliament building, the Ministry of Agriculture is in the building that was built for this, while the Ministry of Justice was in part in the building of the Agricultural Ministry, and this was built for Mania, and I think it all points to the need for this building to be returned to the main body of justice, and it is indeed placed there in a worthy manner. It's up to them to judge. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-06-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask President Peter Darák if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2020-05-06-17	Honourable Members, Thank you for your comments and opinions, but I must say that the content and volume of these comments exceed the quantity that can be discussed at a plenary session and to which you can respond in substance, so I would like to say that I will give a reply in writing on all the issues that I have noted and said. In any case, I would have preferred to have heard and faced these comments from some of the groups at the Justice Committee because we could now have come to the end of them at the plenary session. But better later than never; important comments were made. Thank you for the rapporteur's comments and the summary of the committee's hearing by President Imre Vejkey. Thank you for highlighting the issues directly affecting the lives of citizens that the Curia has dealt with thoroughly during the year, such as issues relating to common property, penalties and legitimate protection issues. Mr Zoltán Kovács summarized precisely the professional goals that led the Curia in 2018. In agreement with him, I also value the 2018 criminal law unit activity to a high level, which has taken the form of a large number of major legal unit decisions. In the context of Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm's comments, I have to make a partly agreed statement. I, too, believe that the Curia has an important role to play in preserving and maintaining the stability of the state, and that it can only do so if its activities are surrounded by public confidence, and it does not serve to strengthen this public confidence by making strong and personal criticisms of public figures against judges. I must say, however, that I would argue with some of your points of substance. On the one hand, with regard to the issue of foreign exchange credit, I would like to refer to the fact that the Curia's activities in this respect are ongoing. In 2012, I spent ten years of my life dealing with foreign exchange-credit issues, slowly ending this ten-year period, and every year the Curia dealt with the issues that have been raised. [[10.50]] However, I must add that we are trying to tackle the legal problems that we are facing through a complex set of instruments. Therefore, it was not always done by case-law analysis in the previous year, in other cases by consultative body, and in other cases by publishing ad hoc decisions, that we try to respond to the legal problems raised. So we are not just trying to deal with the problems in this area through a legal unit procedure and not just by a case-law analysis. Although I try to avoid going beyond the events of the year in any such parliamentary report, the direction of the question on this issue justifies recalling a recent information received. I am constantly getting information from the Curia's economic council on what foreign exchange-loaning matters they negotiate and what conclusions they come to. I believe that this brief information is appropriate to remove the doubts raised by the Member lady and the Members here in recent minutes in relation to foreign exchange matters. The Curia's economic branch has made several orientation decisions in foreign exchange-credit cases in recent months. These are information on exchange rate risk, relating to the unfairness of contractual provisions on management costs and payment commissions. These decisions have either already been published in the magazine Curia Decisions, or are being published. The possible unfairness of information on exchange rate risk is always assessed by the Curia in the light of the evidence found in that case. There were cases in which Gfv found that information was unfair. VII.30.096/2019 and has concluded that the financial institution has provided fair information see Gfv. VII.30.270/2019 or Gfv. VIII.30.356/2019. Case No. 1. There was also a case where the information was found unfair, but for procedural reasons Gfv could not make a decision. VII.30.024/2019, while in other cases, Gfv has ordered a new procedure for the lower court to investigate the content of the information provided. VII.30.034/2019 The Gfv. VII.30.356/2019 The Court of Justice of the European Union, in its preliminary ruling on the Court of Justice of the European Union, held its view on the unfairness of the contractual provisions relating to management costs and commissions in addition to the facts in question. These judgments and judgments clearly indicate that the Curia deals with the problem continuously and every week, every day. I have a new comment on party formation. We will examine this issue. I would argue that, in the context of the creation of codes of procedure, there would have been no clear arrangement by the legislator, on the basis of the example cited, because if we looked at the consultation panel resolution on the unlawful acquisition of the means of proof, it would appear that the legislation on this matter was in place, but it was necessary to provide an additional interpretation in its practical application. The operative part clearly points out that the legal settlement of the issue is sufficient, but further guidance has become necessary. I'm not going to read the operative part about it right now in the absence of time. In the context of the manifestations of foreign exchange-credit cases, the representative lady and gentlemen formulated a judgment of value on public speech and public figures when they referred to the fact that certain problems were reflected in the media in a simplistic manner. I agree with that. Unfortunately, this rating also applies to foreign exchange credit cases. So we can't talk about foreign exchange-loaning matters in the knowledge of the Curia's previously described, focused approach to individual cases, about public knowledge or obvious things. In these cases, case law is maintained at a level where such general classifications are no longer permissible. The Curia will therefore continue to examine the individual contracts and assess all appeals in relation to them which may contribute to the progress of the case-law. About the building. I would be happy to give you a tour of the part of the Curia currently used by the Curia's organization. I can show you rooms where four council clerks sit at a distance that doesn't match the risk of an epidemic. So there is so much congestion in the current environment at 16 Markó Street, which is not sustainable. I very much hope that moving to Kossuth Square will help a great deal. I have already said several times that there is no problem with the placement of judges, and we are not guided by prestige; simply because of the significant development of the staff supporting the judicial activity in Curia, it has not been resolved in the building of the Curia. This can only be temporarily helped by the fact that the colleagues of the Metropolitan Court of Justice, who are sitting here, are expected to move to a new building shortly in September. In the case of civil rights unit initiatives, I would also suggest that the Curia uses a multifaceted set of legal unit instruments. Not all initiatives need to be answered by a single law decision. If we are to find a case-by-case decision that answers the question, then the publication of this ad hoc decision will resolve the question of interpreting the issue of the law raised just as reassuringly as if we were to introduce a legal unitary procedure with a large amount of resources. A new point is the suggestion made by the Member to the woman on notary documents. I'll look into that, too. Mr László Varga also raised the issue of electoral matters at the Justice Committee meeting. I gave the answer in a four-page reply. Obviously, the congressman would like to see a change in judicial practice. However, in my extremely well-founded four-page response letter, I made it clear that the rules of law separate the range of persons who are legitimized to an election objection and the number of persons who are entitled to apply for judicial redress. Here it requires the involvement, which the Curia examines with several ad hoc decisions on the case, and the case law seems satisfactory and reassuring to me. However, it is new to me that the rules on proof in electoral redress procedures are not satisfactory. Obviously, the question of a three-day procedural deadline cannot be overlooked. On several occasions in recent years, there has been a public debate on the feasibility of notifying the parties concerned. If further evidence is combined, there is no guarantee that an effective electoral remedy can be provided. The question of negative and impossible proof may obviously be raised, but in such a procedural situation, where an appeal is to be assessed in three days, it is logical and reasonable that the person making the application should present the possible evidence. The question of electoral meetings was not raised by the Member at the new Justice Committee meeting. I'll respond to that later. Mr László Szakács's speech pointed towards legislation rather than to the Curia. In the context of foreign exchange matters, the comments made by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm also concern this point. In the context of Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki's suggestion, I can say that it is correct to see that, indeed, the boundaries of facts and opinions are moving and are changing in an unusual direction for us. [[11.00]] However, there are very important transnational reasons for this, namely the judicial practice in Strasbourg, which, through the mediation of the Hungarian Constitutional Court, is also being grinded by normal judicial and judicial practice in Curia, but seems to be increasingly accepted. The essence of this change is, moreover, that the assessment of the private-law fact and opinion will be replaced by an examination of a public-view context, a public-communication context, and this will result in the assessment of circumstances previously interpreted as facts. The Constitutional Court took a position on the possibility of challenging the decision of the State Court of Auditors. I commend to the honourable Member the decision of the Constitutional Court, which stated that the attack was indirectly secured, so if any concrete consequences of the decision of the State Court of Auditors on the part of any of the parties concerned are to be challenged before a court, and the legality of the State Court's statement on the basis of the Authority's decision can also be examined in this case. With regard to the issue of public opinion on the judiciary and judges, I must draw the sad conclusion that in recent years there has indeed been a much stronger and clearer response and a short response to each manifestation. In recent years, this action has shown that it is not effective. I can't talk public figures out of making political opinions about the work of the court; it's probably not my job. The public speech culture is changing in this direction, and unfortunately we must continue to live with that in the future, but I do, however, maintain my view that the expression of opinion must stop with the judge on several occasions. Thank you very much for your comments. What I couldn't react to, I'll do in writing. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-06-18	Thank you very much for the President's answers. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, who also wants to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2020-05-06-19	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the independent Hungarian courts and independent Hungarian judges for their work in the field of justice. Allow me to address the speaker's speeches. I fully agree with my fellow Fidesz lead speaker Zoltán Kovács on what he said. However, I must reject Mrs Varga-Damm's presentation that, in the last ten years, politics has affected or attempted to influence the court. The reality is that in these ten years, the courts have been truly respected, and they have truly respected the full division of power in Montesquieu, so the separation of judicial, legislative and governmental powers. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm also gave a rather fundamental opinion on the criticism of court judgments. He said that these judgments could not be criticised. We, for our part, believe that they can be criticised, because everyone has the right to express their opinion, whether they are pro-government or opposition, and I find it rather strange that opposition representatives would like to limit these rights to pro-government citizens. In my opinion, it is also possible to judge because the judges themselves are not infallible. However, the criticism of the judgment itself does not in any way prejudice judicial independence, because, as I said, it is just an opinion. László Varga MSZP lead speaker said that the Curia makes more informed decisions than the Constitutional Court. I think this wording is offensive to the Constitutional Court, and it is essentially a political attack on the Constitutional Court. I also reject the presentation by our fellow Member László Szakács. He said that the government's view was that it was in the interest of the banks. Dear fellow Member, There has not been a government in Hungary that has fought so much for the rights of Hungarian citizens against the banks, just as against multinational companies. As regards the speech by our fellow Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, Mr Zoltán Kovács already gave his opinion on the building of the Kuria. Indeed, the Palace of Justice was built as a Palace of Justice, built as a building of the Curia. In 49, other communists thought that in the future they would not serve as the Palace of Justice, and until the last few years they remained the remnants of that decision, since the operation of the Institute of Political History and Labour Movement took place in this building. It was not long ago that a decision was made to hand it over, and the transformation could finally begin. The question of whether the Palace of Justice was even capable of becoming a Palace of Justice: I think nomen est omen, the name is binding, so it is obviously suitable. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Congresswoman, I'm talking now. You had your chance. Our fellow Member from Sebian-Petrovsk also asked a question regarding the independent administrative court. I think it does not belong to the present case, but if you are interested, look at the legislation in force and you will get a clear answer. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-06-20	Thank you very much for the President's answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, allow me to thank President Peter Darák for his participation, the report and the answer to his questions. I wish you good luck and good work. Dear Parliament, The 2018 report by the President of the National Court Office and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption will follow. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Dr. György Senyei Barna, President and colleagues of the National Court Office. The President's report B/7208. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee is H/8006. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. György Barna Seneyei, President of the National Court of Justice, author of the report. Mr. President, please. [[11.10]]
u2020-05-06-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, In the context of the 2018 Presidential Report of the National Court Office, I would like to share the following thoughts with you. In 2018, but every year, and always in the context of the courts, the most important, important data are always the case-martial, so the case number, the number of cases that have been brought to the courts and the timely and well-founded conclusion of these cases. These are the issues which, I think, the Parliament, but citizens seeking rights are primarily and most interested. The National Court of Justice: In 2018, 1 248 685 cases were brought to court and 3.6 percent more, 1 294 081 cases were completed. I think it is a significant issue that the number of terminations exceeded arrival at all levels of judgment, both in relation to all cases and, in particular, with regard to litigation. By the end of the year, 206 688 cases were pending and this is a 24.5 percent reduction compared to 2017, i.e. the previous year. So we can determine a reduction in the backlog of the case. What is important is that there is no substantive change in the life of the courts on one issue, and this is the situation of the central region. In the previous years, but it can be said that the courts in the central region of the country are the Metropolitan Court, the Budapest Surrounding Court and the Metropolitan Court are the most overwhelmed, since the number of cases arriving here is about 40 percent of the country's arrival. As regards timeliness, it is important to mention that 86.4 percent of the lawsuits have been completed within one year of arriving at the relevant level of judgment. It's an average figure. In particular, if you look at the structure of the court system in detail, there was the greatest improvement on the judging boards, since 81.7 percent of the cases that arrived were completed within six months. If we talk about the quality of the case in a broad sense, it is important to mention, at all times, timeliness and legitimacy and unity of law. These three coefficients determine the level of judgment. It is more than timely that it is important to decide on the basis. It is obviously an unanswerable question as to which is the good judgment, but perhaps we can say that the good judgment which both parties acknowledge is that there is no appeal against it, because the content of the decision is accepted by the parties, or the reasoning of the decision convinces the parties, the seekers. In this context, it is a significant fact that 91.1 percent of cases in the district court-martial field were brought to legal force in 2018, but more than that, and this is also an important figure in the criminal case, 78 percent of cases were brought to legal force in the first instance in 2018. The repeal rate also shows the quality of the case. At the district court-martial level in the civilist case, the dominant part of the arrival was 8.2 percent of the repeal rate and 3.8 percent of the criminal case was annulled. Compared to the previous year, the improvement in the civilist case index was 0.5 percent, because it decreased from 8.7 percent to 8.2 percent compared to 2017, but I can report to you on a higher rate of improvement in the criminal case, as 3.8 percent of district court judgments were repealed in 2018 in the criminal case, compared to 6.5 percent in 2017. In the context of the quality of the legal unit and of the case-law, I must inform you that 16 decisions by the Constitutional Court have been annulled. Ten decisions before the ECHR affected the courts in 2018. The year 2018 made a significant change in the life of the courts on a professional basis, since in 2018 the regulation of court proceedings was significantly renewed. On 1 January 2018, the Civil and Administrative Rules and the Criminal Procedure Act entered into force from 1 July 2018. In the context of the new codes, information and preparation of employees and customers was thus carried out in parallel. From 2018 onwards, in the second instance, this particular situation arises in the negotiations before a second-degree council on a given day of negotiation, and I myself have experienced that at the 9:00 trial we will proceed according to the rules of the old civil order, and then at the 10:00 trial, the rules of the new civil order may, in essence, apply to the same or the same title. There is no problem with this, since legal certainty requires and it is clear which code of procedure will allow the procedure to take place, but I must say that this has created a specific situation. I have just heard the medical metaphor from the lady, and from this point on, it's like in a hospital protocol for a foot injury in the first surgery in the morning or in the case of the same injury in the second surgery, a different surgical protocol should be used. In any case, this presents some challenges, which I believe have been resolved smoothly by the courts and their duties have been fulfilled in this context. The judiciary has made electronic procedures, electronic administration and electronic contact issues a major priority, which have now been appreciated in the light of the unfortunate virus situation. As of 1 January 2018, the number of cases in which the parties were obliged to communicate electronically with the court, such as enforcement in non-court proceedings, civil, economic, administrative, labour non-court proceedings, has increased significantly. However, in order to protect the public seeking rights and, where appropriate, to compensate for the lack of access to electronic means, it should be stressed that, in 2018, natural persons acting in person may continue to use electronic contact as an alternative in judicial and non-court cases and in presidential administrative matters. In other words, natural persons could not be at a disadvantage in 2018 because they did not have an electronic means of communication. I believe that the rate of electronic arrival and termination is also significant, since in 2018, 1 277 968 electronic submissions were sent to the courts and 1 827 315 electronic submissions were sent by the courts. [[11.20]] By the end of 2018, the so-called Via Video system was established, the first stage of which was completed by the end of 2018, when 72 courtrooms were installed for remote listening and meeting room recording. The issue of human resources in the court organisation shows significant numbers, since 11 731 people actually worked in the judiciary at the end of 2018, of which 2933 judges, 900 court secretaries, 238 court practitioners and 7660 judicial employees. The number of the National Court Office was 291 at the end of 2018, 39 judges and 252 members of the judiciary worked at the end of this year in the OBH. 73 judges ceased their service in 2018, and the president of the OBH evaluated 284 judicial work applications, 1711 applications were received for the 284 judges' contracts, and as a result of the tendering procedure, the president of the OBH decided on 115 transfers and lodged 141 judges' appointments, 28 cases were declared unsuccessful. In 2018, the President of the National Court of Justice decided to consider 47 applications for management posts under the power of appointment, in which 21 were appointed, in 26 cases the application was declared ineffective, in 10 cases the absence of support for the opinion panel, in 8 cases the absence of a tender, and in 3 cases the withdrawal of the application resulted in the declaration of failure of the application for a management post. The management of the court organisation, as you can see from the written material in front of you, was balanced. There has been no change in the trend that 62 percent of the highest amount of expenditure appropriations remain used for personal benefits. The judicial salary base increased by 5 per cent from 1 January 2018. In order to avoid fluctuations, the courts introduced a retention programme, including early school support, professional self-training support and increased health screening in 2018. The provision of IT conditions and the improvement of IT conditions are of constant importance, with 15 518 monitors, 14 359 workstations, 4867 notebooks and 1482 tablets providing the necessary IT background for work in the judicial IT system at the end of 2018. In 2018, the courts tried to provide IT tools at all times, in particular 2833 IT tools were distributed to judges in 2018, in the form of tablets, e-books or notebooks, according to their choice. In the administration of the courts, as you know, there are a significant number of buildings. By the end of 2018, there were 185 buildings in 113 cities with a net surface area of 462 220 square metres, of which 154 are the buildings for the purposes of the case-law. In 2018 it was also a priority to address the needs of the eight priority administrative and labour courts to be set up due to legislative changes. The most outstanding court-building transfer or renovation: the refurbished building of the Egri Tribunal was also transferred in 2018. An important issue is the scope of integrity, external and internal integrity. The lawsuits brought against the courts in 2018: 539 new cases were brought against the courts, 669 cases were pending, 75 percent of which were for damages. 694 cases have been definitively brought to an end in proceedings against the courts, 8 of them have been closed with the detention of the courts, and 99 percent of the damages actions against the courts have been unfounded, and 4 456 127 HUF has been ordered to pay the courts. It should be added that this should also be reduced and the damage caused by judicial powers should be avoided. The disciplinary situation of the judges is also a significant issue: 6 judges received written warnings, 20 judges were brought to disciplinary action, but one of them requested it himself after the written warning. 6 judges have been suspended by the President of the Republic, 5 cases of criminal proceedings, 1 cases of infringement proceedings on the basis of the procedure and 6 judges on the basis of infringement proceedings relating to road transport. In 2018, the courts continued their training; it is unnecessary to say that the entry into force of the Codes of Procedure has increased its importance. There were 455 training courses and related events, including 18 654 participants, 282 central training courses at MIA and 9838 participants. The judges were obliged to participate in courses to assist in practical preparation for new codes of procedure. The courts are constantly monitoring and attach importance to foreign study trips, including understanding of the knowledge of EU law and the knowledge of it by judges. In 2018, 323 trips took place, involving 199 judges, court secretaries and judicial staff, i.e. the participation of a chief consultant in a study or conference abroad. The current situation of drafting posts is also to be mentioned in the case of court replacements. Sixty-seven job vacancies received 149 applications and 101 were awarded a successful competition. All written posts have been filled in 2018. Thank you very much for listening, thank you for your attention, thank you for the floor.
u2020-05-06-22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, author of the motion for a decision. Mr. President, please.
u2020-05-06-23	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr OBH President, Allow me to welcome Dr. György Seneyei Barna, President of the National Court Office, here at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament, who has just presented the report of the Office to the Honourable Parliament for the first time. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 76. Pursuant to paragraph 8 (c), the President of the OBH submitted to the National Assembly the B/7208 on the activities of the National Court of Justice in 2018. This report, which was discussed as a committee designated by the relevant Judicial Committee at its meeting on 12 November 2019, was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the Court of Justice in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[11.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Under the authority of the Fundamental Law, the President of the National Court of Justice shall perform the tasks of the central administration of the courts. Acting in this context, he identified as a priority the creation of the conditions of civilised, comfortable, simple and quick administration in order to satisfy the clients of the courts, while it also covered the provision of the working conditions necessary for a timely and well-founded judgment of the 11,000 employees of the organization. In the framework of the Commission's debate, the Judicial Committee heard a detailed report on the OBH's activities in 2018, in which it welcomed the expansion of the system of electronic administration, digital court and distance hearing, the development of customer-centred and customer support systems. The Judicial Committee commends the reduction of backlogs in more than 50,000 cases, resulting in a decrease of almost 40% compared to 2012 figures. The Committee also considers the indicator of the completion of cases within one year to be outstanding. There was a court organisation that successfully completed 95 percent of its cases in that year. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Codes of Criminal Procedure and Civil Procedure, the application by the courts of the General Administrative Procedure and Administrative Judicial Laws, also imposed a significant burden on the judicial body in 2018 on administrative tasks. The smooth transition has been facilitated by the establishment of working groups to support the entry into force of the new Codes of Procedure and the introduction of new structures for education, as well as the new network of contact points. The smooth transition was also helped by the fact that OBH prepared a number of information material for court clients. The Judicial Committee has supported OBH's digitalisation efforts in order to ensure digital publication of court decisions, electronicisation of judicial documents and electronic access to court proceedings. The members of the Judicial Committee have asked a number of questions about the Union's preliminary ruling mechanism and its effects on domestic case law, the quality of the judgmental activity, the possible difficulties in the administration of e-courts, the legislative intentions resulting from the new codes. The Committee concluded in the debate that the technical objectives of the OBH for 2018 had been fully achieved. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 12 November 2019, the President of the National Court Office B/7208 on the activities of the National Court Office in 2018. with 8 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 1 abstention. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee shall be laid down in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/8006 submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act. B/7208. He recommended his report to the Parliament for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-06-24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's Fundamental Law requires the President of the National Court of Justice to perform the central tasks of the administration of ordinary courts. The administration of the courts is a set of administrative activities which are not closely related to the performance of the judicial functions of the courts and judges, but provide the courts with the personal and factual conditions of the case. Ladies and gentlemen, We have in front of us the 2018 report by the President of the OBH, which was discussed by the Parliament's Committee on Justice on all the relevant issues, and has put forward a proposal for its adoption, as the President has just said. The report before us provides sufficient information on the outstanding, high-level and effective work carried out by the staff of the Office and the judges in 2018. Dear House, In addition to the outcome and professional examination of their lawsuits, it is in the most important interest for citizens to complete their case as soon as possible. In 2018, 86 percent of the lawsuits and therefore the vast majority of the lawsuits ended within one year of their arrival at the relevant level of the case. At the end of the reference year, the number of cases pending beyond two years decreased by 40 percent compared to the year in which the OBH was established. These figures also show that the effectiveness of domestic case-law is significantly improving. The efficiency of the case-law was also supported by the management information system launched by OBH, an IT application called VEIR, which assists court leaders. It should be pointed out that, on the basis of the European Justice Scoreboard published by the European Court of Justice, our country continues to be in the first third of the Member States on the basis of its indicators on the effectiveness of the case. In 2018, the retention programme, which Mr President also detailed, continued and expanded with new elements, supports the completion of the judicial career, prosperity, additional knowledge and health, and expresses appreciation for the activities carried out in the interests of the organisation. Optimal allocation and utilisation of human resources is essential to achieve the successes already described. In this area, the methodology for assessing the activities of managers and the organisation of the posts of judicial staff in the regional administrative and labour courts have also been developed. As regards the area of training, I would like to highlight a few more results. In 2018, national and full education of the new codes of procedural law took place in the form of e-learning and presence training. It should also be pointed out that iCorso training management software has also been put into use at national and judicial level. The scientific conference on the history of justice, Mátyás I. and the judiciary, was held in Visegrád. [[11.40]] Dear Parliament, In the light of the results learned in the report and practice, the President of the OBH and the staff of the Office are thanked for the exemplary professionalism, preparedness and effectiveness of the tasks provided for in the legislation in 2018. The Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the report and we wish the entire organisation and the President a good work. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-06-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has given two keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Gyüre, one of the lead speakers of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear György Seneyei, President Brown, I welcome you and your colleagues with great respect. We are in a rather special situation, since you came here to keep this report, and in 2018, you were not an employee of the OBH, but you were working as a judge, and your predecessor's work is to be protected here, and we have to classify how you worked in 2018, so what we say here is obviously not going to be about you. But first of all, before I get to that, I would like to thank everyone, all the court employees, judges, court secretaries, authors, judicial staff, administrators, administrators, officials and all the court employees for the work they have done in the past year, years and now, to the satisfaction of society. The situation caused by the Covid-19 virus is a particular test for both judges and court workers, which is obviously no small problem. The current management also has a lot of problems to deal with in this regard, so that courts can operate continuously and in a accessible manner, to the satisfaction of the population. Turning to the problems, I consider it the most important issue, which was an important and cardinal issue in 2018, and this is the issue of the independence of judges. I think that we need to look at this at all times, and we must always pay attention to the fact that this is fully achieved or that any attack on judges in society is being carried out that is trying to subdue judicial independence. I think that the year 2018 was specifically the year when this took place. But what are these? I believe that since 2010, there have been ongoing attacks on judicial independence. This was observed shortly after the Orbán government came into power. As a first step, I see the period when judges, judges of a certain age, are forced to retire. This has already been an attempt to intimidate the judges, that we can always make rules, for you judges, that we can create for you a situation that will not be good for you if you do not follow what we expect you to do. So I think that was a serious problem at the time. Then, in 2018, there were scandals in the appointment systems. It was also trying to intimidate the judges that they were children, not sure that you could be leaders if you didn't join the line we expected of you. However, we can also talk about the fact that disciplinary action was launched in a way that was quite questionable and that disciplinary action was often initiated for certain internal disputes. Then there is once again a government proposal, the question of setting up independent administrative courts, when I even praised the President's work on the 2016 report of the Hando Tünde, in terms of how much she stood up for the independence of the judges and how she criticised the establishment of independent administrative courts, and said that this would put judicial independence in jeopardy, if this were to be introduced. Of course, then, by 2018 and 2017, this opinion had changed considerably and supported the independent administrative courts, another issue is that it was not introduced to God, although I believe that this would have been a profound violation of judicial independence, but we have discussed the aspects of this several times between the walls of the House. I think that it would be an important pillar of judicial independence if the budget chapter of the courts were defined in accordance with the Fundamental Law, and not every year the government, the Ministry, proposed this, and would be accepted by Parliament on the basis of an agreement, because in some way, both executive power and legislative power can have some kind of impact on the activities of the courts by opening and closing the cipher. Then there is the question of the remuneration of judges, which was very, very on the agenda in 2018. President Tünde Handó almost points out in his assessment that there was a 5% wage increase in judges on 1 January 2018, and this is a commendable thing. Of course, I think that every worker, not only in court, but wherever we look at it, is always happy with a wage increase, but if we look at the fact that for 14 years before it, before the three steps the three times five percent were introduced, the judges did not receive any increase in wages, and thus their real wages decreased by about 65 to 70 percent during this period, I think that this was a very minimal improvement. Thank God, later on, if not in 2018, but last year, but this has been resolved at some level. Yes, so I think that when there was no wage increase for 14 years, it is also a pressure to the courts and to the judges' work. Turning to the report, the conclusion of the case, as Mr President pointed out, was 1 294 081 cases, and this resulted in almost 50 thousand fewer cases, and it is commendable that it is evident that the backlog has been cut off. By the way, for decades there has been a problem in the courts with the huge backlog that the judges have rolled in front of them. Obviously, this has made their work very, very difficult in many respects, and there are only 231 068 cases in progress, which is much less than in 2017, when there were more than 305 thousand cases. The legal increase in lawsuit terminations is 91 percent in the first instance. So 91 percent of the cases in the civilist case ended in the first degree. The President has also stressed this. I think it's very commendable. Anyway, let's get a little behind him. Obviously, this is largely and we hope it is very, very predominantly about the adoption of the court's good decision by the parties. On the other hand, it is also a bit involved in the fact that judicial costs have increased strongly in recent years, and very often one person seeking justice in a court of law thinks that he should go to the court at all. This is not the fault of the courts, since the legislative authority determines the fees to be paid. However, it is evident that many attempts are made to enforce their right or their supposed truth in the first degree in the shortest possible period of time by customers, and often they do not want to pay any more. But in any case, it is very commendable that 91 percent of them have already finished in the first degree of civilist service. I would like to congratulate the Nyíregyházi Tribunal on the narrower Patriam Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, from which I came, because there, by far, the number of cases raised to legal force in the first degree is 93.2 percent above the national average, and the second is the Nyíregyházi Tribunal in the country. Another question is that 86.2 percent of cases were completed within a year. I think that this is also a very good number, and obviously that is what we should be trying to do. When clients are seeking the truth or seeking their right, it is obviously important that they receive it in a year, two years from now, five years from now, so it is very important that this is accelerated, not to mention that the Hungarian State has paid quite a lot of compensation or compensation in the past period because the court proceedings have been delayed. When we see that this is constantly accelerating, it is definitely a positive thing. I also read in the 2018 report that the use of speech-writing programs has been achieved in all courts, with 879 such tools. Well, I don't know, even today I don't really hear that there's a mass use of these in court. Even today, those who write them down, the chief minutes, the notaries, are very busy, and often they cannot finish the work that they are responsible for. So it would be very good if these speech-writers could spread even more, and they could be used everywhere and used. [[11.50]] Training, self-training, effective judgment. As I read in the report, training is very important. Obviously, with a judge, as the laws are constantly changing, as the judicial practice may change, following this is very important for all judges in Hungary. During the period of Tünde Hando, I think that the emphasis has shifted a little towards self-education. So the court academy worked well before, and there they tried to organise these trainings in a centralised form; here the emphasis was on self-training and local training during the period of Tünde Hando, which, if you look at it, is obviously cheaper, but the question is that it is more effective to try self-training than the proven, older method. New programs have been introduced under Tünde Handó, child-centred justice,.Open court. I have no problem with these, I just feel that during this period too much emphasis has been placed on these, and too much energy has been spent on this, perhaps with less energy and less marketing could have been achieved. I believe that in court judgment, justice, must be the primary, and that everything else must function in a subordinate manner. The report shows that 219 legislative opinions have been brought to the OBH's table. I also see this as a very important task for the OBH and for the courts, because they are the ones who practice these laws most constantly, how they implement it, what judgments they make, the best of seeing the problems that arise in life and in social relations, and in many cases they are able to give the best proposals to the legislation on where to proceed. In the year 2018, when we look back, everyone remembers the problem of President OBH's wife's appointment practice. The year 2018 was also loud, and this was one of the main problems at Hando's Fairy. The other main problem is that it is about the same time that his relationship with the National Judicial Council deteriorated, and the result of this was that cooperation between the two bodies was interrupted, which, I think, is unprecedented in the last 30 years. Obviously, this was also necessary to change both in the appointment exercise and in the relationship between the President of the OBH and other bodies, which is why we welcomed the fact that in 2019 there was a change in the leadership of the OBH. We learned from the report that there are 3016 judges, of which a very, very large percentage is loaded, 69 percent are women, 31 percent are men to judges. It's interesting that we're getting there today, that we're slowly growing up in this profession. Today, more than two thirds of the judges are ladies. I have already spoken about the three times five percent increase in the judicial salary, which has increased the salary base of the judges to HUF 453 330. In my earlier speech, I also indicated to President Tünde Hando that, while we were at the point of remuneration, she introduced new principles of reward and distribution within the court, which, in turn, gave rise to a number of maladministration and insults and anger. I have asked Madam President before to try to change that, since the old, well-established methods have not caused such a problem. The Integrity Code also entered into force in 2018. The integrity code is very important, Mr President has also spoken about it, the integrity of the courts. Here, however, I think that President Tünde Hando has been a little out of line in this area, and that the integrity code has caused quite a bit of interest both within the courts and in Hungarian society and has created quite a lot of dust. I felt that this integrity code almost does not regard judges as high-age citizens, at least in certain details, or as not a citizen of an age who can think responsibly, but as someone who needs to be explained, chewed into his mouth, and the most basic things, such as underwear, should also be regulated. I think that this is a little out of line, Madam President, and it has caused a bit of scandal both in court and in society, and it may not have been lucky. The confrontation, if I have already spoken about, is not only the President confronting the OBT during this period, but then her relationship with MABIE, the judiciary, has also deteriorated strongly. I believe that this is not a good thing either, that when such a civil society organisation is operating, the most important task of which is to assist the work of the courts, to enforce the rights of the judges, to have some scope for it, when the judges have no rights such as other workers, they cannot strike or engage in political activities, and they cannot enforce their interests as others do, then at least this should be the case, so that those who serve the interests of the judges, such as the judiciary, should take their word into account better. I mean, the affair that got so angry that they were unpacked from court buildings, I think that the President has gone a long way in this area, too. We were very pleased when this change occurred at the end of 2019 and that, on the basis of the new principles, peace and order in the functioning of the judiciary, as the new President said, this will be the basis for high quality, timely and impartial judgment. We were pleased that the role of the Judicial Academy was, in his view, increasing in the future, and that he also wanted some change in court tendering systems, which we have repeatedly criticised, I myself criticised here in previous speeches years ago. Obviously, there is a need for some kind of point system, when there is a judicial application, who will be appointed, obviously it is necessary to determine who has the best, most qualifications, obviously what is in the profile, who may have a language examination, who may have a scientific examination, who has a state examination, who has a professional examination, and who has a professional examination, but obviously this cannot be a life-specific exam, up to 20-30-40 years after the appointment, in the case of an application, how the state exam has passed, or how someone has passed the exam, but more emphasis should be placed, where appropriate, on what kind of professional history he has in the field, what practical experience he has, what additional knowledge that the judge has gained in the practice of the past decades. I think that when it comes to judgment, when it comes to sitting there and deciding specific matters, when it comes to convincing clients to the right and left that, indeed, the decision that the judge has made is a good decision, and also the one who has the negative decision, he accepts it, that is the biggest thing. The fact that someone has a PhD degree and is applying for it may not make him a better judge than he has been sitting there for 20 years, practicing and having experience in it; it may not be that the person who has been scientifically published but has never decided a case in his life will be better. As a judge, the good judge to whom the parties listen will be the good judge to whom the parties accept his decision, who does not consider that he has made his decision on the basis of any influence, but only subject to the law, justly and acceptable to all. That is why I would welcome the fact that there is some change here in the judicial tender system, in the matter of the point system, in the future. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I also consider it important to reduce bureaucracy. I worked as a lawyer for 20 years, and I saw that in the courts I worked primarily in civil affairs, the most important task of the heads of the civic college was professional management, the discussion of professional problems, the discussion of those, guidelines, and, where appropriate, guidelines for the lower courts, so that they knew how to solve things, and this professional assistance was the most important. [[12.00]] We have now come to the point that the college leaders have virtually no time to do this, because they have so many forms of bureaucratic action, statistics to prepare, complete, collect, that they have virtually no time to do what they're meant to do, or they have to have 20 hours of a day to sleep, no time to rest, if they want to do all the right things. I was very pleased that the President had also announced changes in this regard, but I am sad to say that, in view of the Covid virus, this has not yet been resolved, because the work at home on Covid's virus has led to a great deal of reporting and home work reports that continue to keep college leaders very busy. So bureaucracy has not yet been reduced, but we realise that this is primarily due to this established health situation, and we hope that there will be a change in this too. We felt that the statistical approach at Hando's Fairy was very much in focus. However, it may not be possible to judge by numbers whether the court is doing its job well or not. Of course, at first glance, the court is obviously the court where the cases are dealt with as quickly as possible, where most cases are settled by the shortest deadline, where there is no big backlog, obviously that's good. Another issue is that there is a qualitative or quantitative approach. I think the two should work in parallel. Obviously, there is a need for a quantitative approach, but there is a need to pay close attention to quality. I think that the year 2018 was specifically a year in which the pressure of the OBH to have a quantitative approach in the courts of Hungary came to the fore, and I cannot agree with that. The same problem is the trap of cases over two years, when a lot of judges ended their case faster because they did not want to go beyond two years, because then reports have to be written down because they will be investigated against it. Maybe if he had spent another six months on it, he'd have made the right decision, but he'd rather take the ode of collapsing the case, the proper evidence may not have been produced, but he's going to finish it, because then there's a quantitative end. The question is that this is his quality work if, in a year's time, he returns and he renegotiates this matter. I think this change would be very important, too. In the end, I would like to ask Mr President a question, and retired judges asked me to ask this question. When the judges were forced to retire and many were unable to complete the time they had planned or were given as an option in previous legislation, this meant that after forced retirement they had dropped to about a quarter or less than a third of their income compared to their previous income. I think it's quite unfair, and we're talking about a lot less, almost half of it than the amount that the judges are retiring today. Perhaps the OBH is planning some sort of proposal to the government, the Ministry, that these judges are relatively few judges, but it would be helpful for them to have some form of equity in this regard, so that they would not have half as many pensions as those who retired five years later. On this basis, I would like to say that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not accept the OBH's presidential report, but this is not addressed to the President. When we listened to President Seneyei on the Judicial Committee, we pressed the yes button and we are still confident that there will be a great improvement. This is for the year 2018, the 2018 report, the work of President Tünde Hando, not your work. I wish you and all the judges, court staff, good work and very good health. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-06-28	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. As indicated earlier, the two representatives of Jobbik are speaking their lead speakers. Varga-Damm Andrea is next. Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are five minutes, even if I do not see it, but I hope that you can hear me. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Welcome, Mr. President. You have not presented your own report in this House, since December 2019 you have held this post for former President Tünde Hando. So, with all due respect, if you hear criticism, it's not for you, it's for the system that he's designed. Yes, it is very helpful when we read about 86 percent of cases being completed at the same level within a year, but we have to consider the expression "on the same level" as a very important factor, because this means that cases can drag away for up to three years if there is, for example, a review. On the same level, this means within one year, especially in the light of the fact that only 18 percent of the cases received are litigation cases. If you look at it from this aspect, then it is not certain that the result of 18 is so wonderful. Madam President, it was also a great achievement that the number of cases over two years had decreased by 40 percent since the establishment of the OBH, but this was successful in six years and not in a year or two. I would like, of course, to emphasise that these two years, as the President had said at his hearing, have become such a,, two years of phobia, and, as my fellow Member said before me, many times in the end, the judges clashed with matters which were unfortunately not ripe for judgment. It is also very helpful that 91 percent of the cases end in the first instance, but I would like to add two more factors. One is that we don't see in the statistics how much agreement is made. I just want to stress that, for example, almost the most family litigation cases, and in family lawsuits there are a very large number of settlements in the first place. I have to highlight two other factors that have improved the statistics. One is that they raised the appeal fee to eight percent. The second is that litigation is increasingly expensive, not only the fees have increased, but also the fees of legal representatives. I would like to refer to some of the questions that you mentioned when you heard Mr President, and, of course, as you remember, we welcome you. Because the 2018 account is indeed the miracle and the ascension itself on 212 pages, the only important issue left out is that the war between OBT and OBH was devastatingly raging the authority of the National Court Office that same year. So if a man who doesn't have any information about Hungary in the world is reading this, he says that there is no more perfect organisation to support justice. In the meantime, there was a daily war in the press. In this connection, we welcomed and welcomed the promise of peace and order, high quality, timely, impartial judgment. Relieve the adjectives: it was the most excellent, historical, epochal and unique. Yeah, I don't need the adjectives, I need the quality work. We had an extraordinary agreement. The introduction of instructor judges is essential for starting judges. I was very pleased to hear you say that modernisation is not a priority. Man and think are important, modernization must be a tool for all of this. We need to start teaching judges from scratch, and in the point system we want to focus more on practice, of course. I hope that if you make all these promises in the course of your work, you will not only be able to say that it is colorful, smelly and wonderful in the next report, but you will really experience this foresight and this excellent work in everyday life. But I'd like to talk to you about one question. Tünde Handó left, but to some extent the spirit of anomalies around the appointment exercise remained in certain local courts. Because of the coronal virus epidemic, no more applications have been considered, several presidential posts have expired, there have been candidates, and that, having failed to decide in this situation, the status of the old president has been extended with temporary appointments in several courts. I mean, don't take this the wrong way, I'm not saying any specific courts, but you'll know which courts I'm talking about in no time. It was even possible that his superior officer, the former leader, had initiated disciplinary proceedings against the hearing judges to see that the application would not have to be evaluated. I ask Mr President with great respect that, in this situation, he should be very, very careful not to remain in the buds of the kind of spirit that generated the anomalies of appointment practices, and this war, so to speak, has been designed in the life of the National Court of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]] [[12.10]]
u2020-05-06-30	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me say right away, at the beginning of my speech, that my faction considers judicial independence, separation of powers to be a very important core, and I believe very deeply in democracy. That is precisely why, whenever we have previously criticised the work of the President of the OBH, we have done so in order to implement these principles, and we have done it with genuine concern, because we are also seeing serious problems and public problems in this regard. However, I am obviously embarrassed, as other opposition Members have said, that we are discussing the 2018 report, which was presented by the previous president of the OBH, Tünde Handó. It is very clear that this year has already been in the spirit of debates with, among other things, the OBT, and it was clear that this standing war does not in any way serve confidence and public confidence in judicial independence. Thus, when negotiating this report, an opposition representative is severely restricted, since he is obviously able to respond negatively to the report submitted by Tünde Handó, but he had to present it here by the new President, György Senyei. With regard to the person of the new president, in professional circles, OBT, but also in public life, I find that there is extraordinary confidence. In November-December 19 it was about the fact that many people expressed their opinion that this kind of standing war would end, and that a serious peace based on professional basis could come in with regard to justice and judges in Hungary in relation to the branch of power, which was a long time ago desired thing for all of us. I've been told about the OBT conflict here, but also about the MABIE conflict. Let me say here that, at the time of the election of Mr President, these problems had already reached the point where I read in a statement from the president of MABIE in Budapest, Sándor Fazekas, that the judges had reached the tolerance. So in such a situation, this personal change has occurred, which we welcome at the head of the OBH, because Hando Tünde was elected to the members of the Constitutional Court. And this is a major factor in the debate of this report, as these events have also led us to the exchange of persons, and this therefore also determines our opinion of the year . 18. Tünde Handó also held a concentration of power at the head of the OBH, according to a large part of the judiciary, which, if I put it mildly, triggered a great deal of professional and public debate, but could also raise problems with the constitutional requirement of independent and impartial law. We can recall that in the annual debate of the accounts, the opposition has always asked questions about declared invalid judicial leadership proposals, disciplinary judges, and this has been the case until conflicts with the OBT, until the President of the OBH considered the body to be quasi-legitimate. The very body whose constitutional task is to monitor the operation of the President of the OBH. For us, for the MSZP, analyses, statements and research published in the press are particularly frightening, according to which the Hungarian judges no longer regard judicial work as independent or only partially independent. Many such criticisms, comments, and cry for help have been read in recent years. There was also a comprehensive survey carried out by Amnesty International, which used to be a major compass for today's governing parties; this obviously has changed. But from that point of view, it is interesting to say, both in the press and in this analysis, that they contain the opinions of the judges directly, so from this point of view I believe that they can represent a kind of picture. If not a general one, but a kind of picture of what is going on in the judiciary today, and what is the situation on which Mr President must obviously change and bring peace to work. The power concentrated in the hands of the President of the National Court of Justice is likely to cause systemic problems in the previous era. From an administrative point of view, the president of the OBH was able to exert direct and indirect pressure on the courts. The judges consulted had a general opinion in this analysis as well as the previous sentences that an individual judge could usually judge without direct external influence, but this freedom could be seriously threatened. Today, the judge's integrity and moral compass depend almost everything. There is a palpably chilling atmosphere among judges due to attacks on judicial independence, judges working in different courts have reported an unevenly bad mood, many of these press reports have also been published in 2018 and there have been many public debates here in the House in this respect. An environment has been reported in which most judges do not dare to speak openly and freely, cliques have been formed and distrusted. Due to the chilling atmosphere, judges are reluctant to speak in defence of their own opinion, resulting in the weakening of solidarity between judges and between judges and other legal professions. Obviously, it cannot be fully generalised, I would like to emphasise once again, but there have been a lot of such views and opinions. A graphic example of the chilling atmosphere is that judges sometimes don't really know what they're afraid of, an abstract, future possible consequence, often of the unknown. However, this indirect and sophisticated result of the freezing atmosphere can influence their thinking and their decision-making. The administration system allows the case-manager a great deal of leeway on which judge he is signing the case, and several analyses have concluded that external factors, including attacks in the media, could put an increasing external pressure on the judiciary of newly introduced institutional and legal developments. What we have seen since then, beyond the reference year, here in Parliament, in the autumn, is that the government is trying to weaken judicial independence by new means. It was previously the plan of the administrative courts, which could have been a means of talking about this during the previous agenda, and a law adopted in December 2019, which we also had the pleasure of discussing here, and I had the pleasure of commenting, opened the way for the members of the Constitutional Court to easily move to the seat of the President of the Chamber. This is also a problem because there is obviously a way for people who are loyal to the majority of governments to enter. Perhaps, by the way, the appointment of Tünde Hando is such an appointment. So this could be a very clear violation of judicial independence. These are the circumstances, and I could tell you this for a long time, but I think a lot of people have said a lot of my concerns about this, and in recent years there have been a lot of public debate about the president of the OBH; and our sincere concern has motivated these revelations about judicial independence and the separation of powers. If I have said that this was our sincere concern, I must say that I would like to talk about our sincere hope now, and I am quite sure that, obviously, if nothing else, my fellow Member Vejkey will respond to these comments. [[12.20]] But let me say that I very much hope that a new period has started here in recent months, and that we will be discussing a very different report when the Parliament reaches the year 2020. This kind of trust is very high in all areas of public life towards the newly elected president. For various reasons, this confidence in the previous OBH president was not there in 2018, so it was not there in the reference year. We are obviously aware of this report and the reference year, so I can say that we cannot accept the 2018 report for this reason. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-05-06-32	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, head speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-33	Mr President, Dear House, If you only start from the text of the report, if you only read or just listen to what Congressman Vejkey said about this year on behalf of the Judicial Committee, but you forgot to mention this on behalf of the majority of the Justice Committee, which proposed this report to be adopted, you might think that 2018 was a normal, peaceful working year in the National Court Office, it was a year of the Hungarian judiciary such as the others, which has evolved, increased, responded to the problems, and, of course, this is partly true, because, of course, either in the National Court of Justice Office, the vast majority of those working in the judiciary continued to do their work in 2018, trying to work to ensure that justice works in accordance with the law and in this sense, in the wider sense, in the interests of citizens. But it's only part of the truth. The other half of the truth and, unfortunately, the more important half of it, if you like it, is more important for Parliament's controlling role, that 2018 is most likely to have been the worst year of the National Court of Justice and, in general, of the Hungarian judiciary since the change of regime. I hope that this will not happen again, and of course, it is difficult to take on this guarantee under the current operation of Fidesz. It was a terrible year on the part of the National Court Office, a year when the head of the National Court Office clearly tried to direct political control of the judiciary by violating legislation and exceeding his own powers. This year was characterised by cases such as the attempt of the head of the National Court of Justice to render the National Judicial Council inoperable, which is a total legal inability, since this construction, which is not a good construction, is based on the fact that OBT has a kind of countering and controlling task in relation to OBH's activities. OBT's job is to protect the judiciary from OBH's overpowerment, to make it impossible for the OBH to step out of its role, from the kind of background role that this organization normally plays, to be essentially a means of political control over the courts. In 2018, the president of the OBH tried to do this, and he failed only because a large part of the judiciary, the judges, resisted it, in fact effectively, because Fidesz was forced to back down and rescue the President of the OBH to the Constitutional Court, where, of course, he will do a great deal of damage, but at least the OBH was saved from this situation. The fact is that a report that does not deal with these conflicts, either with contradictions or conflicts about appointments or to say one more thing: there is no doubt that the most effective way to break the independence of the courts is to have the leadership's choice not on professional terms, not on the part of the judiciary, but on the one hand, but on the other hand, a kind of official approach, or to say that this was the case, this was the case, which caused the war between the OBT and the OBH actually to break out, so a report that does not give a detailed explanation of the situation, and does not give any explanation, a description of these events, of these reasons, is not acceptable in substance, and is not acceptable in form, because it does not report on the fullness of the situation. The point of the OBH's parliamentary report is to inform Parliament and decide how the OBH otherwise meets its constitutional tasks. If there is a conflict that fundamentally affects the constitutional functions of OBH, the conflict between OBT and OBH, from a political-power perspective, was about Fidesz trying to invade the courts, and from a constitutional point of view, it was about the fact that, in a subtle way, there was a debate about what the President of OBH had the right to do and what the OBT had the right to do, I have to say that if the report does not report on this and does not report on it, then this report does not comply with the requirement of completeness. We ourselves appreciate that, since Mr President is in office, this year 2018 will not be affected by any other approach and will lead the OBH in a different style. I think this is a relief for all Hungarian citizens seeking rights, and also a relief for Parliament. But the problem is that it is not a good constitutional system that we drew attention to when the current judicial structure was established, where only the good will of the leader depends on the organizational independence of the courts, i.e. the organizational guarantees of judicial independence, or not. That's not a good system. So I have to say that, in addition to the fact that we have the problems with the report in relation to 2018, which I mentioned, it is true that it does not report on conflict points, and it also reports on a year where the OBH has been far from doing what it is supposed to do, I must also point out that unfortunately this year also proves that this kind of construction does not guarantee the independence of the courts, does not guarantee the organizational reality and organisational conditions of judicial independence. Therefore, obviously not below you, because it is very appropriate for you, you, I am thinking of the majority of governments, are happy to take advantage of this precarious situation in order to try to bring the courts into political control in many other ways, but also in this way, but if there is a majority in Hungary that considers judicial independence, independence of justice and constitutional predictability as valuable, then another better functioning model with stronger guarantees should be introduced, also learning from the lessons that the year 2018 has brought. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-06-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed, and I will ask President Seneyei if he would like to respond and reflect on what has been said. [[Dr. György Seneyei Brown: Thank you, Mr President, briefly yes.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-06-35	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congressman Lords! First of all, thank you for your contributions, thank you for having been so closely monitoring the report. Allow me, in chronological order, to add a very short sentence to what has been said, to try to answer the questions raised. First of all, I will inform the speakers because more people have been involved with the Nexus of OBH and OBT, and in a minute I will be late because I am attending a Skype-OBT meeting; I also consider it important to cooperate, and we will be able to work together between the National Judicial Council and the National Court Office. [[12.30]] Thank you, Mr Károly Becsó, for your contributions, your words of appreciation and appreciation, and for your knowledge of the very long report highlighted by Mr Csaba Gyüre. In the context of the length, I try to change that if we look at the trend of the future. Several representatives also mentioned the independence of judges. I, too, consider judicial independence a priority. Congressman Csaba Gyüre mentioned disciplinary procedures. Disciplinary proceedings shall be decided by service courts. The objective and impartial assessment of these, I believe, is ensured by the service courts. He also mentioned an increase in court costs. Court costs are high, it's obviously a relative concept, but the system of discounts may answer. I believe that judicial costs, personal and material cost reductions, right to record costs, and so continue to ensure that the public seeking rights is able to turn to justice. In the context of the completions: he mentioned the legal representation of several decades. We all know this, that in the case of completion, timeliness is obviously of paramount importance, but a dynamic balance in the area of endability requires that we take into account the complexity, extent, complexity of the case, the complexity or multi-directional nature of the necessary evidence, where appropriate, the introduction of the expert, which, in some cases, clearly excludes the immediate termination of the case or the completion of the right-seeking audience. In the context of training: obviously a dynamic balance must be struck between self-education and organised training, because, in addition to digitalisation, it is important to remember that, in addition to digitalisation, the Curia's decision-making database itself, all judicial staff, in particular judges, court secretaries, but there is access to legislation, a collection of all existing legislation, and a commentary on it, but indeed in the context of training, direct performance training is also important. We must at all times stress that the courts, I can say, may have an exclusive role to play in judging and, consequently, in order to minimise other forms of social engagement. Indeed, the open court, as Mr President has pointed out, is important in that context for children in primary and secondary school to know the courts, the functioning of the courts and the role of the judiciary. Several contributions were received from several representatives in the context of the independence of the judges. In this context, in addition to the priority of judicial independence, I also consider quality judgment to be important. Fine tuning of the point system. We talked about the point system several times, and this also applies in 2018. The point system is not a despicable system. Indeed, the point system must retain its values, because in a constantly changing legislative environment it is essential to have additional qualifications, important but not to ignore the importance of the professional past and practice. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr In this context, I will send you a written reply within the prescribed time limit. Congressmen and the congresswoman mentioned the OBH-OBT relationship. I have already mentioned this once, and I do not wish to repeat it. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm analysed the impact of the coronal virus epidemic in connection with the appointment exercise. It is a matter other than 2018 and I will deal with this in writing. Mr László Varga mentioned the analysis of judicial independence. The number of speakers was not significant. Of course, I think it is possible that there are such opinions, why not. I was Chairman of the Council in 2018, and I didn't feel frozen or influenced by any of my decisions or decisions because we took advice. Mr Gergely Arató also made comments on judicial independence and the role of the OBH. I maintain my position, which I have expressed with the priority of judicial independence, or I consider it important to normalise the relationship with the OBT, which I believe has occurred or to maintain. I don't personally perceive the overpowering of the National Court of Justice. The options are available to us in the administration, which I wish to apply in the legislative context, and I will, of course, always paying attention to the voice of the opinion bodies. It is not possible to ignore the thoughts and positions of the opinion bodies, but we should also mention in this context that, as its name shows, as the Members have said in their speeches, we are talking about bodies of opinion, and we must keep the emphasis at all times. Opinions are not an option. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Congresswoman's not here anymore. Mr President, Thank you very much. That's all I wanted. Thank you for listening.
u2020-05-06-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Commission President Vejkey has indicated that he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-06-37	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I think it is important to state that the National Court of Justice also fulfilled its constitutional tasks in 2018. The facts prove that. According to the OBH-OBT-nexus position, it has been unilaterally presented on the part of the opposition keynote speakers, and I therefore consider it necessary to state the following facts. OBT's legitimacy became questionable, so the Ombudsman himself turned this question to Ab, the Constitutional Court, to conduct an investigation. In this extremely special situation, OBT itself initiated a disenfranchisation procedure against President Tünde Handó OBH. Members of the OBT also voted in favour of the initiation of the disenfranchisation procedure, who, as a well-known fact, were in a lawsuit and anger with Madam President, so they should not have voted, but rather declared an objection to bias. I am very pleased that, as Mr President said, the nexus between the OBH-OBT appears to be settled. Amnesty International also spoke about its material on judicial independence, if I recall correctly, an opinion by my fellow Member László Varga. I have to say again, as a fact, that 14 judges were heard by Amnesty International, two of which were ex-judges, so not hundreds. Thus, this opinion cannot in any way be regarded as a significant opinion of the judges. If I recall correctly, it was also my fellow Member, László Varga, who raised a question about the order of division of cases. Here I can tell my fellow Member that he is banging open doors. CXXVII 2019 Act adopted by the Bsi. 10. We have amended §8 of the Act, and on this basis I believe that this issue has been fully resolved. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]] [[12.40]]
u2020-05-06-38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we begin to negotiate the next bill, I'm ordering a five-minute technical break. (Recess: 12.40 12.45 p.m.) President: Dr. István Hiller Note: László Földi and Dr. László György Lukács)
u2020-05-06-39	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2018 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision adopting it will follow up until closure. Welcome, Dr. Péter Polt, Attorney General. The report submitted by the Attorney General B/7481. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/7916. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I now give the floor to the author of the report, Attorney General Peter Polt. Here you go. I'll let you know you have 30 minutes tops.
u2020-05-06-40	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, In accordance with my constitutional obligation, it is an honor for me to be able to report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Hungary in 2018 before the plenary session of the Parliament. The written and digital reports are available to all Members, so allow me to add only a few details that I consider important in my oral amendment. In the middle of the reporting period, the 2017 CX on criminal proceedings entered into force on 1 July 2018. Law 13, which had a significant impact on the prosecution's criminal law activities in 2018. We worked a semester under the former law, but another semester was already under the new law, which, obviously, caused some statistically difficult work settlements due to the new legal institutions. Some changes are worth mentioning separately from the law, so the cases in which the defendant admits to the law must be treated differently, and the criminal policy emphasis has shifted from traditional indictment to the use of decoying and victimisation institutions. The new legal objectives are to break down the former uniform investigation into two different stages of the criminal proceedings law: detection and investigation. It is important that the investigating authority will continue to act independently in the course of the investigation while the prosecution will lead the investigation. It can be said that, overall, a new system of criminal proceedings has been established within which previous procedural practices were no longer automatically applied. The application of the law introducing a number of new legal institutions required, in particular, the professional preparation of the prosecutor's office, the development of a significant number of professional guidelines and the training of prosecutors. In my opinion, this task has been successfully completed by the D.A.'s office. In part, thanks to the changes, the turnover of the prosecutor's organisation increased significantly in 2018 compared to the trend that had already been going back many years. This was done despite the fact that the downward trend in the number of crimes since 2013 continued in 2018 and that the number of crimes known has for the first time decreased to below 200,000 in many years. In almost all categories of crime, fewer crimes have been registered than in previous years, and the same is true for the perpetrators. There were very few exceptions to this, of which I have also made written remarks for corruption offences, which almost doubled in 2018 compared to the previous year and reached a peak in 2014. The number of registered official bribes within the crime group has increased significantly, but the number of registered economic bribes has also increased by almost three times in the previous year compared to the continuous decline in the previous two years. There is a legitimate question as to what caused this phenomenon. Several of our investigations have looked at this, and according to this, in recent years, even in the years preceding 2018, the investigating authorities and the prosecution have made further important efforts in the fight against corruption. [[12.50]] With the organizational reinforcement of the prosecution's investigation into corruption cases, a new basis for reliability investigations has been achieved. In addition, the activities of the services set up in the detection of corruption offences in the Office should be specifically mentioned behind this growth. Thus, the number of known corruption crimes could increase, reducing the otherwise likely higher visibility. The D.A.'s office in the criminal area continues to investigate, investigate, prosecute and prosecute under the law. The new Criminal Procedure Act has changed the scope of criminal offences falling within the competence of the sole prosecutor's investigation and has referred the prosecution's exclusive competence to investigate corruption offences committed in connection with official persons. However, he has removed the crimes against justice from this circle. The procedures in this area were carried out by the Central Investigator's Attorney General and its regional departments. If we look at the statistical data, we can see that in 2018 more investigations were launched in this circle, i.e. in the context of corruption investigations, than in 2017, but because of the complexity of the cases, less has been completed. In the field of investigation surveillance, the new law has changed, as I referred to earlier, to the procedural relationship between the investigating authorities and the prosecutor's office, the detection is characterised by the full autonomy of the investigating authority, the judicial control of the prosecutor's office, while the investigation is conducted under the authority of the prosecutor's office to investigate and obtain the necessary means of proof. His wide-ranging licenses are only in the investigation phase of the investigation, he has the opportunity in the detection department to repeal the law-breaking decision or to call on the investigating authority to remedy the established violation. It is worth drawing attention to the fact that the number of complaints against the decision of the investigating authority continued to decline in 2018, as in previous years, despite the legislative change. In the course of the prosecution's examination of the complaints, the prosecutors, in the same way as in previous years, accepted and rejected complaints. This numerically means that 2699 complaints were accepted by the prosecution, while 22 831 complaints were rejected. It should be noted that with the new law, the prosecution's increased supervisory authority over investigations has ceased. In the investigation course, after questioning the suspect, however, the prosecutor is already in full control of the investigation, may direct or carry out any investigative activity. In the end of the investigation, the D.A.'s office will decide on the most important measure, the prosecution. Compared to the previous one, the prosecution had a new task in the year to consider avoiding negotiation, for example, as a result of the agreement with the defendant, or to conclude the case at the preliminary sitting held by the court on the basis of the prosecutor's so-called letter of intent. These options have significantly increased the burden and responsibility of the prosecutor in the conduct of successful criminal proceedings. According to statistics, 62.5 percent of investigative cases were prosecuted by the prosecution, 17.9 percent by the prosecution, 11.5 percent by a conditional prosecutor, and 4,6 percent by reference to mediation. The D.A.'s office has sought to ensure that cases can be completed as quickly and legally as possible. To that end, more than 9,000 defendants were brought to justice, while 22 000 cases were brought before them without trial. For the first time, agreements were also applied, which, although similar to the so-called plea deal, cannot be identified with this, the facts and the rating, and we must stress this, because only the prosecutor can determine this, and this cannot be the subject of a deal. The use of all these instruments has significantly reduced the burden on the courts. Traditional indictments were only filed by the prosecution in about 35 percent of the prosecution's cases. As a result, and obviously as a result of the general reduction in the number of cases, the number of cases settled by the court decreased by about 6.9 percent and the number of defendants involved decreased by 7.4 percent. The prosecutor also carried out significant activities in front of the courts, participated in preparatory meetings and in first, second and third-degree negotiations. In particular, participation in the preparatory meeting should be highlighted, where further developments in the procedure are identified, and sometimes the procedure, as I mentioned earlier, can be completed. The data show that the prosecutor's office has complied with the new legal requirement to play a much more active role in order to further enforce the division of functions. This was necessary not only to establish the facts and the classification, but also to influence the legal disadvantage imposed. Unfortunately for me, it is a fact that the practice of punishing the courts has been further reduced, and often it has not reached the medium. In the event of an excessive penalty being imposed, the prosecutor has always appealed in a compulsory manner, but in this round and only in this round, I must note that the effectiveness of his appeal, as in previous years, is still low, with only 27.5 per cent in the reference year. On the other hand, the prosecution's results continued to increase, reaching the highest value of the last ten years by 98.1 percent in 2018. In addition to enforcing the State's criminal needs, the Public Prosecutor's Office exercises and exercises additional responsibilities and powers as protectors of the public interest in 2018. The renewed codes of procedure also had a significant impact on the public interest protection activities of the prosecutor. Thus, the number of cases registered in the field of public interest protection decreased by 8.5 percent in 2018 compared to the previous year's turnover. The reduction in the number of cases registered is largely due to the continuing spill-over effect of the change in legislation that has entered into force with regard to civil society organisations and the decline in the number of cases received from the court in this round. The proportion of administrative prosecution measures has decreased to a much lesser extent, and the number of applications has remained almost identical. [[13.00]] At the same time, the number of measures in environmental matters did not decrease, but increased by 10 percent, and there was obviously a significant social need for this. The prosecution's activities in infringement cases remained essentially at the level of the previous year. An important part of the public authority's competence is the involvement of a prosecutor in reliability investigations. In 2018, the Public Prosecutor's Office participated in 1103 reliability investigations and 9 criminal proceedings were launched on the basis of the checks carried out, but reliability investigations are also generally of great importance in preventing corruption. On the basis of the new rules, the prosecutor was no longer entitled to bring an action against civil society organisations in the field of public law in 2018, and instead was entitled to initiate a court-martial review procedure. In 2018, a total of 1539 such proceedings were initiated by the Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, we have continued to take action under environmental and nature protection laws, consumer protection matters and unfair conditions of the standard contract. We also successfully applied the counter-opinion calls. In the field of public law, the area of judicial oversight of the prosecutor has increased further in the field of prison execution, and there has been a significant increase in duties. During the inspections, we have tried to detect possible infringements, and we have taken decisive action to eliminate or prevent them, and this has also been of international importance, to date. According to the national investigation carried out in 2018, the treatment of prisoners in Hungary was in line with the requirements set out in international legal standards and recommendations. We need to talk about the prosecution's efforts to create a legal unit. The legal institution entitled "legality" was used 11 times in 2018, and the Curia shared the opinion of the Attorney General in all cases. In the criminal sector we participated in 4 legal unit procedures in the field of public interest protection. The prosecution's international activities are very diverse, and the prosecutor plays an important role in international legal assistance. In particular, we need to highlight our activities in Eurojust, the European Union's prosecutor's organisation, which, by the way, has been very active in recent years. In 2018, the Hungarian section of Eurojust dealt with 35 percent more matters requiring coordination than in previous years, and Hungary came to the seventh place in terms of the number of cases opened. The operation of so-called joint investigation teams in international cooperation is very important, and in 2018 there were 16 joint investigation teams with Hungarian participation, coordinated by Eurojust. Very briefly, in a sentence about the staff and the economic situation. The state of the prosecution's personal affairs and management is solid, it was able to perform the tasks in 2018. The high level of vocational training and further training in the prosecutor's organisation remains ensured, both with the participation of the Hungarian Attorney's Training Centre and the National Institute of Criminology. The latter is, by the way, a serious scientific base for the whole Hungarian legal life, with widespread international recognition and prestige. Overall, I can state that in 2018, Hungary's prosecutors met the expectations of the state and society in full compliance with the legal conditions and regulations, and I believe that they worked on a high level of professionalism and timelyity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-06-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Now, the author of the decision, Mr Imre Vejkey, will be the chairman of the Justice Committee. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Allow me first of all to welcome Mr Péter Polt and his colleagues to the plenary session of the Parliament with special respect. Ladies and Gentlemen, Pursuant to Article 29 ( 5) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Attorney General submitted to the National Assembly the B/7481 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2018. The Court of Justice of the European Union, acting on a proposal from the Court of Justice of the European Union and acting on a proposal from the Court of Justice of the European Union, and acting on a proposal from the Court of Justice of the European Union, shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Judicial Committee noted that the report also provided detailed information to Parliament on the wide-ranging tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with criminal justice, its activities under public law, its statutory audit work and its work in connection with the enforcement procedures. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law, Hungary's prosecutorship is the sole enforcer of criminal law claims in respect of the Hungarian State, and it also performs other tasks assigned to it by law. The Public Prosecutor's Office has also carried out its work specifically in 2018 within the legal framework and in accordance with the requirements of timeliness. I would like to congratulate Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General, all prosecutors and all prosecutors for their excellent work in 2018. In 2018, there was a very significant change in background legislation, as the new criminal law law came into force on 1 July 2018 and the prosecutor's organisation had to adapt to it. This adaptation has been extremely successful by the prosecutor's organisation, and the transition has been smooth. The trend of fewer and fewer offences recorded in statistics has continued in the reference year as well. The number of wilful murders continued to decrease, and the number of crimes against property also showed a large reduction. The two examples I have mentioned above represent the fact that in Hungary the state of public security is stable, and even more robust, crime is being reduced, and the authorities are in control of the situation. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, there are some categories of crime where there is no overall reduction. I would also like to highlight a category mentioned by the Attorney General, because of increased interest, and this is a category of corruption crimes. I must stress that not the corruption situation has changed in a negative direction, but the rate of detection of corruption has increased significantly, thanks to the prosecution's activities. It is also important to know that such crimes have extremely high visibility, so the increase in this number clearly shows that the prosecution has worked even more effectively than it did in previous years. It can also be said that the prosecution is increasingly and more effectively using acceleration measures. In 2018, one of the most effective means was to bring him to justice, accounting for more than 19 percent of all indictments. [[13.10]] Another effective tool is a motion for criminal action. It's a legal institution to stay out of the old trial, which represents 44.1 percent of all indictments. Ladies and Gentlemen, What is new is the agreement that triggered the traditional indictment and the traditional trial. The number of cases shows an extraordinary increase, i.e. only 36,6 percent of cases had to be dealt with in all the traditional cases, and the main trial was only in so many cases. This also shows that the procedures have been extremely shortened compared to the previous ones. It seems the deal has fulfilled its expectations, but it must be known that this is not the American-type plea bargain, it cannot be negotiated in terms of facts and ratings. Ladies and Gentlemen, The prosecution should also allow a sentence of success, which again shows how excellent the prosecution has done its job, and we must even say that the new Be. With its entry into force, the indictment rate has risen to 98.1 percent, indicating the best value in the last decade. Speaking of the public interest case, the case has changed, it has become more of a casemaker, and in non-criminal categories it acts as a warning body to observe awareness and legality, so the prosecution has had to go to court less in this context in the case of infringements. Ladies and Gentlemen, I must also mention the supervision of the execution of sentences. This is also an important area, because Hungarian enforcement is being investigated not only within Hungary, but also outside Hungary, including the European Court of Human Rights. Most ECT negative judgements have been made in prison cases because of the size of the cells and not because of the treatment of prisoners. It is important to stress that the prosecutor's office is an outstanding member of the European Union's prosecutor's body, Eurojust, one of the most common countries initiating cases in Hungary, and so the Hungarian Chief Prosecutor's Office, and so the prosecutor's office participates in a large number of joint investigation groups. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, at its meeting on 6 November 2019 of the Judicial Committee, B/7481 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year 2018. His report was adopted by 8 votes to none, with 3 votes in favour and no abstentions. Our Committee on House Rules 84. H/7916 submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) In its proposal for a decision, the Attorney General recommends his 2018 report to this House for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-06-43	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask Mr. Barnabás Hajas to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It says no. In this case, Honourable Parliament, the speeches by the lead speaker will take place. First, Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-44	Mr President, Dear Dr. Péter Polt, Chief Prosecutor, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Our European existence and our European culture, which is also part of our legal culture, is based on three great moral, philosophical and legal foundations. One is the idea of freedom and democracy of Greek philosophy, the other is Christianity itself, its radiating power to all our concepts, our thinking and our institutions, and the third is Roman law. Therefore, if I may, I would like to add to my speech a Roman legal sentence, which is a kind of slogan, guiding thread of everything I would like to say today in relation to the report by the honourable Attorney General. It says, "Justitia est regnorum" Modern today's translation: every state, every state is based on law. As has been said today, according to Article 29 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent, as a public prosecutor of the state's criminal claim, and the Public Prosecutor's Office pursues crimes, acts against other illegal acts and omissions, and facilitates the prevention of unlawful acts. Article 29 (5) of our Fundamental Law also states, as has already been said today, that the General Prosecutor is subject to an annual reporting obligation to the Parliament on the operation of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year. As has also been said today, the Judicial Committee has discussed and examined the report before us, which is extremely detailed, thorough and reviewable and found it acceptable, together with the addition of the Attorney General. Dear House, I would like to highlight and draw your attention to the fact that, under the leadership of the Attorney General, the prosecution was able to adapt as quickly and effectively as possible to the legal environment created by the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 1 July 2018, which had a significant impact on the prosecution's criminal law activities in 2018. The main objectives and conceptual innovations of the law would be summarised as follows, of course briefly. On the one hand, he wanted to respond to the broad social need for timely termination of proceedings and for a more efficient functioning of criminal justice, on the other hand, his main aim was to bring the perpetrators of crime to justice in a shorter period of time and with fewer social costs and social losses, even at a higher level of procedural guarantees. In this spirit, the new procedure attaches particular importance to the cooperation of the burdened, to which voluntary admission gives rise. All parties to the proceedings and society as a whole are interested in this, as it can lead to time and cost savings on the part of the authorities acting in criminal proceedings, a lighter penalty on the part of the defendant, and a more secure compensation for the victim. In addition, I think it is important to mention the prosecution's work to promote a uniform application of law, as the issuing of guidelines and resolutions for this purpose was particularly important last year, since the new Code of Criminal Procedure raised a number of questions about the changed approach and new legal institutions of the law. In the course of criminal law enforcement, it is essential that prosecutors adopt the same legal position on controversial issues, which is one of the major guarantees of legal certainty and equality of law in the rule of law. The Public Prosecutor's Office shows its effective analytical work and purposeful activities by issuing 116 resolutions of principle in 2018 from the date of entry into force of the new law. In my view, the most remarkable legal content of the numerous positions issued in the field of the application of the new code is that which gave guidance for the interpretation of the relevant rules in criminal proceedings concerning the involvement of minors. [[13.20]] This direction is particularly supportive of the Fidesz Group, as the protection of families and children, ensuring their healthy physical, mental and mental development, is of paramount importance to the Government of Hungary and to my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out with sufficient emphasis that the activities of the Attorney General are not only outstanding at home but also across borders, as during the year 2018, Dr. Péter Polt has negotiated, among other things, with the delegation of the limited election observation mission of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. He also welcomed David B. Cornstein, Ambassador of the United States of America to Budapest, and, not least, negotiated the implementation of the recommendations of the report on the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office adopted at the 67th plenary session of the Group of States Against Corruption, criminal proceedings in corruption crimes, and offences detrimental to the European Union's financial interests. In this context, in the context of my personal international negotiations and my meetings with foreign judicial bodies, I consider it important to share with you the fact that the activities of the Hungarian prosecutorial office, the attorney general, enjoy great international appreciation and respect, and therefore consider the work of the prosecutor in our country, criminal cooperation, to be outstanding and exemplary by all neighbouring or far-reaching judicial bodies known to me, or even on other continents. I think we can all be proud that the international recognition of the prosecution's work has also contributed significantly to the appreciation of our country's reputation and the functioning of the rule of law. Within the international activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, a strong emphasis has been placed on maintaining and strengthening international relations, of which there is a significant participation by prosecutors in international training events for exchange of experience, inviting them as experts and rapporteurs, as well as a foreign mission in specific matters to consult foreign partners. Overall, the public prosecutor's communication maintained the outstanding results achieved in 2017. It is also respectable that the majority of the Attorney Generals have been able to increase or maintain their press activity compared to the record year 2017, which has greatly contributed to strengthening citizens' confidence in the public institution system. In order for the prosecutor's office to continue to represent the interests of citizens, individual trainings were held during the press work and a comprehensive training system was established for subordinates and employees. All of this has resulted in not only a quantitative increase in content, information efficiency and communication, but also in the case of written communication and television and radio interviews. We look at it well, personally it is very close to my heart that, in addition to practical work, the prosecutor's office devotes sufficient time and attention to the increase and cultivation of legal traditions and legal knowledge, to the pursuit of scientific and theoretical theoretical activities. In this context, I would like to point out that prosecutors are respected participants in legal, scientific and educational public life, their articles, studies, and personal professional books, university textbooks and other higher education publications. Everyone in the top management of the DA's office has a degree in science, 27 prosecutors and 18 other prosecutors, of which 4 are habilitated, 2 have a PhD in the Academy, 61 are students of various doctoral schools. In the reference year, researchers published 81 publications, 19 of which were written in foreign languages. Colleagues held a total of 111 presentations at various conferences and professional forums, of which 18 were delivered in foreign languages and 16 were held abroad. A total of 40 research programmes took place in the same year. 33 of these researches have been completed. All this has placed the Hungarian prosecutor's office, in comparison with the prosecutors of other nations, in the world's scientific community, also showed our long-standing Hungarian legal thinking and further strengthened our reputation from their scientific abilities. Dear House, The report is supported by the Fidesz Group. We also ask the other factions to do so, given that the prosecution's activities continued to meet high standards of overall social expectations in 2018. By performing its tasks, our country can be one of the safest countries in the world, where the various communities, churches, nationalities, civil society organisations live together in peace and peaceful relations, and where, according to our family ideals, we can raise our children and our families safely, and live a decent life here, in this country, in a predictable, secure legal and secure environment. We thank the Attorney General, his deputies, all the colleagues and coworkers of the prosecutor's organization. We wish the prosecution and all of you good work, good luck and good health. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-06-45	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-46	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Attorney General and Colleagues, Well, we think the prosecution has a double opinion in Hungary, and I'd like to split the assessment of the work into two parts. On the one hand, there is a professional part of this work. I think that those prosecutors who are conscientiously, subservient to the legislation, regardless of policy, are not subject to their work, deserve recognition, and indeed thanks for the work that they are doing on a daily basis. But there's obviously another nuance to this case that I'd like to address, and that raises a lot of questions. Where does the public money go in Hungary? This is a very important question. How could corruption in Hungary have increased so much in recent years? Infidel treatment, bribery, where do the money go, the public money? Why is Hungary so far behind the world ranking of corruption? Why does everyone say that the most important problem behind the health problems in Hungary is the incredibly increased corruption? What is the political responsibility of the elite, the responsibility of the governing parties? But even opposition parties have a responsibility. But how much responsibility do law enforcement have in this regard? According to some opinions, a multiple of the total Hungarian government debt has already been removed from this country. And where is the effective reconnaissance? Can we talk about effective reconnaissance in this area? Is the detection of corruption effective? Is there effective reconnaissance in skiing public money? The Attorney General has already held this post between 2000-2006 and 2010 until now. On my count, it's been 16 years. It's been 30 years since the change of regime. You were more than half the attorney general in Hungary. How do you explain the increase in corruption in Hungary? What measures have been taken against this? What happened? Why is it that everyone in Hungary is talking about systemic corruption today? What has become the fate of the Kehi reports, the OLAF reports, the reports of opposition parties? You always say it, and the representatives of the ruling parties always say, "Well, if you find out about a crime, report it." Yeah, we're gonna press charges, we're gonna press charges, everybody's gonna press charges. And what happens? They're nicely rejected, and nothing happens to them. Another question is that a Member of Parliament, an opposition Member of Parliament, does not have investigative powers, does not have a team, auxiliary forces, has no opportunity to conduct investigations, so there is only the problem, so do not pass on the responsibility in this respect to us. [[13.30]] Article 29 of the Fundamental Law states that the Public Prosecutor's Office is the sole enforcer of state criminal claims. The problem is that if the D.A. doesn't press charges, no one can be convicted. Obviously, there is an institution of substitute private property, but it is again difficult, it can be applied in a very small percentage, or there is a lack of investigative powers to build your spare private life in an important corruption case, which, in addition, extends far and cannot be investigated by simple means. So it is also a big problem that only those who have been prosecuted by the prosecution can be convicted by the courts in Hungary. Obviously, the courts do not have investigative powers, they work from the material they produce, so there is obviously an opportunity not to prosecute certain persons, so they can't commit a crime because the court doesn't say that they did it. Obviously, this is a trend on the part of the legislator, because in many respects the legislator has narrowed the power for ordinary mortals to turn to investigative bodies and/or conduct investigations themselves. What's one of the most important things? And it's not the prosecution's responsibility, it's the legislative authority, it's the Parliament's. The Orbán government was barely formed in 2010, one of its first measures was to remove the possibility of setting up committees of inquiry in the event of suspicion of a criminal offence. After all, even if we look back at the cases that have raised the long-standing dust, such as the oil committee, it has been established in relation to the oil-bending, and yes, it has had the opportunity, the opportunity, the legal framework, and even the financial framework to conduct an investigation at some level, to discover what kind of oil-bending mafia is operating in Hungary. Somehow after 2010, the Orbán government made it disappear nicely, so there should be no committee to investigate, there should not be any other body capable of investigating, only to whom it can influence. Then there is another very important issue, which was once again the responsibility of the legislative power, the responsibility of Parliament, and this was the narrowing down of the right to complain. We have also mentioned this many times here that, in the event that we are not victims of the case, we cannot complain because they refuse to report us. And who is the victim of this case when a crime is committed against the state when public money, tax dollars, is whistled? In the first instance, our complaint is denied, and in the second instance there is no room for complaint because we are not the victims. Well, how could we not be? ! The 10 million people who live here in Hungary, who are Hungarian citizens, who pay taxes, who have ever paid taxes, are all victims. Obviously, this is not the responsibility of the prosecutor's office again, and in particular not of the Attorney General's Office, which is Parliament's responsibility. What I am trying to say is that there is no political motivation on the part of the governing parties to eliminate corruption in Hungary, to reduce corruption in any way, there is no need for this between the governing parties, and there is even a need for this to be done as widely as possible in Hungary. This is why everyone in Hungary is now talking about systemic corruption, systemic corruption where this corruption activity is being carried out under central control, and thus a good part of public revenue, the European Union's support, disappears. There is a lack of transparency in many cases, we can talk about overpriced tenders in public procurement, money backsizing, benefiting the oligarchs close to the government, distributing EU and state money. Should we press charges? We don't have investigative powers, we can't file a complaint, we can't set up a committee of inquiry. The lack of political will, that's all we can say in this case. This is how we get to the point that most people in Hungary today believe that, in addition to the deterioration in the quality of health care, corruption is one of the biggest problems. People in Hungary believe that government politicians are outlawed, they can do anything. I'll talk a little bit more about that, but now a little bit about the report we got. We see that the number of vacant posts is 7.6 percent at present in the prosecution's office, which has been similar before. We really didn't get an explanation for why these posts weren't filled. The circulation of case files in the prosecutor's office increased by 10 percent in 2018, but what was interesting and fascinating was obviously what an opposition politician was looking at, where the number of registered crimes increased, in which area. A 25% increase in drug abuse can be observed. I have already spoken about this in my previous speeches, which is also felt by society that this is a serious problem in Hungary, especially in the most backward, segmented areas, the problem of drug use, and the problem that is secondary to drug use, are more aggressive acts and crimes that will be carried out as a result. There are some problems here, so perhaps we should work more forcefully in this area. The biggest increase is in the area of corruption crimes, with an increase of more than 100 percent compared to 2016, since while in 2016 there were 985 registered crimes, in 2018 2046. In particular, the number of government bribes doubled between 2016 and 2018, and the number of economic bribes tripled in practically one year. Another economic area with the same rate of growth, and this is the area of money laundering, where the number of cases has increased from 90 to 259 in a single year. So what we see is that we can see a significant rise in the criminal activity of the economy, corruption, in the case of registered crimes. And another interesting thing that doesn't belong here, obviously, but not so much to the economic part, is damage to nature, where the number of registered crimes has increased to the greatest extent. Here, the number of natural disasters committed increased by almost 550 percent, i.e. more than five times, from 81 to 450. I'd like to ask you a few contradictions about the prosecution's investigation. In 2017, there were 9,000 complaints, in 2018, there were only 12 thousand, so the number of complaints increased by about 30 percent. The number of investigations based on this has also increased by 20 percent, from 4400 to 5330, whereas the number of investigations completed has decreased by 22 percent. So it's either a sign of difficult cases that need to be investigated for a longer period of time, and that's why the investigation is going to be delayed, or maybe there's another reason, and I'd like to ask Mr. Attorney General. The complaints against the termination of the investigation, and this is not what the representative is doing and rejects, because 20 percent of it is not affected by him, but it has been effective, which at some level could even qualify the investigating authority. I'm talking about the first-degree investigating authority, that it might be worth examining that in such cases, if this is a 20-percent measure, they do not want to get out of work. Obviously, there's a problem with a big number like this, a number like this. The number of complaints against the prosecution's first instance decisions is much lower, this is much more acceptable, here 10 percent was only effective, this is a much better ratio. In the prosecutions, Mr. Attorney General, it is of the utmost importance that, on the one hand, there is a significant reduction in the prosecutions, a decrease of 33 percent in eight years. Thus, since 2010, there has been a significant decrease in the number of indictments, while the indictment has improved significantly and is outstanding at 98.1 percent, according to the report. [[13.40]] On the other hand, this indictment is obviously a result, so when the court finds criminal liability in the same way as the prosecution, it does not reflect that these judgments are entirely based on the will and intention of the prosecution. We cannot say that it is almost 100% this year, because there are many appeals. Fifty per cent of the prosecution's judgments are appealed to the Court of First Instance. Half of this is a public prosecutor's appeal, and the other half is a mutual appeal. So out of the 14,000 cases, there were more than 7,000 appeals. That means 50 percent of the case is filed by the D.A.'s office. Here, too, I see a small contradiction in the figures, because according to the 2018 report, the effectiveness of the appeal is 52.5 percent. This is noted on page 43. Then, in the next section, 85 percent of appeals have proposed an aggravating of the penalties imposed, and the report notes that the case law of the courts is rather mild, and therefore the prosecution will appeal for an aggravate of 85 percent. However, the effectiveness of this is only 27.5 percent. I don't know how 52.5 percent of all appeals come out if 85 percent of appeals are only 27 percent successful. So here I see some contradiction in this report. We also talked about international relations. The Attorney General has almost glorified the international authority, international relations and international good judgment in his speeches so far. We see that the report shows that there are ongoing international relations. For example, between 3 and 5 September 2018 the V4 meeting was attended by the Attorney General, a conference in Paris between 16 and 18 May. They were both on the subject of this issue, and I highlighted the issue of setting up the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We believe that the establishment and adoption of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in Hungary is important because, in the very areas that I spoke about at the beginning of my speech, the reduction of corruption, the elimination of public funds, the draining of a good proportion of European Union funds, there could be any progress. I think that the European Public Prosecutor's Office would certainly do so, especially in the area of control over the spending of European Union funds, so that corruption could be reduced and Hungary could move forward, since unfortunately, Hungary's judgment on the world ranking of corruption is extremely poor. Why am I saying this? I am also talking about this because Hungary is under the bottom of the frog on the world list of corruption. Hungary's international judgment in this regard has deteriorated to an unprecedented extent. Hungary is the only country in the region that continues to deteriorate in this area, while the rest of our region has been continuously improving the international perception of corruption since 2012. If we look at a list of 100 because it is rated this way, the Czech Republic has improved 7 points since 2012, Slovakia has improved 4, Bulgaria 2, Croatia has improved 1 points, while Romania, Poland has improved zero points, so they stagnate in this period of 6-8 years, neither have corruption perceptions deteriorated or improved. In Slovenia, 1 point deteriorated. Hungary? Eleven points is ruin! It was an incredible deterioration, and it was entirely during the period during which Mr. Attorney General held his position as Attorney General. It is considered that the biggest corruption risk is in Hungary in Central and Eastern Europe, where corruption is the biggest. At EU level, in the European Union, we are the last in the tie-break with Romania, behind us Bulgaria is the only one point. I think that next year, if we continue this way, we will also be able to beat Bulgaria, and we will be able to get to the last place of the world ranking for corruption and the European Union ranking. I don't know if we can be proud of that. We have heard how good law enforcement agencies are in Hungary. I am not sure that this is such a good result, and Hungary would have such a good view. If we look at it, Bulgaria is constantly improving, if not very, but has managed to improve 2 points, the trend is pointing upwards, and we have an incredible downward trend. Since the appointment of the Attorney General, Hungary's judgment has been deteriorating, and since 2012, we have been down 24 places in the world ranking. Here, too, it is noted that corruption in Hungary is a systemic and centralised public money pump that makes taxpayers' money private in Hungary. These are the findings for Hungary. Of course, there is some kind of anti-corruption activity on the part of the DA's office, but we just believe that in many cases it is a pretense activity. In this area I mention Mengyi, Simonka, Happy István, which is just a very, very, very small piece. We believe this is only meant to be able to refer to it in the media so that pro-government politicians can be caught up in Hungary, if they do something, they can be caught up in justice. I think it's one or two percent or less. It is also noted that the use of EU funds is largely devoted to maintaining the corruption system. 6.5 percent of Hungary's GDP goes to public procurement. In 2018, almost 4 percent of all public procurement funds were invested in Lőrinc Mészáros. Almost 20 percent of EU funds were won by companies affected by Lőrinc Mészáros. What is the impact of corruption? It's a very bad influence on everything. It destroys the economy, it destroys economic potential, it hinders development, it results in contrasting, but it also affects demography, and it also has a strong impact on emigration. That is why this should stop in Hungary, which is why the country should be free of corruption. Today we can say that Hungary is at the same level as Suriname and South Africa in terms of corruption. We can also say that Senegal, Belarus, Cuba, Rwanda, and even Namibia are ahead of us. I don't think we can be very proud of that. I would like to highlight one more case, and I would also like an explanation from the Attorney General, and this is the case of posters abuse. In 2017-18 thousands of better-looking posters and opposition posters were destroyed in Hungary. These were organized. In many cases, Fidesz activists have committed these acts, and at any time we have filed a complaint or any opposition party has filed a complaint, the prosecution and the police have been unanimous in this matter, and this is part of the free expression in Hungary. If you want to give an opinion like that, you can do it, you can't fit into the crime of destruction. Then, when my fellow Member Gergely Kálló was arrested, who had subtitled some fidesz posters, it was the Attorney General who requested his immunity in order to destroy my fellow Member Gergely Kálló, which the Honourable Parliament had issued. Then I wonder, are there equals and equals in this country? Because when you look at this, I have two options, because it was previously classified as not a crime, free expression is a good way to go. [[13.50]] Mr. Attorney General. There are two possible solutions here: either that in the legislation, Fidesz, KDNP politicians and their supporters and supporters do not commit the crime of destruction if the posters of the opposition party are destroyed, or that the other solution is that there is some kind of political control over who has to be prosecuted. Obviously, if it's fidesz, it's allowed, if it's opposition, then it's not allowed. I ask Mr. Attorney General, if this has not been a crime before, or if it has been a crime before, then he has brought disciplinary action against those police officers, against those prosecutors who have described that posters can be found in free expression. Or is there a difference between man and man, or is the prosecution under political control? That's my question. This is a very important question, and I think that everyone can decide the answer to these questions. Or I would like to ask you that there has been progress on state aid to Roma organisations, and that there have been accountability in this area. So there are many things in which, when we look at it, we see that there is no progress, not only no progress, but there is a constant step backwards, and here the government parties are experiencing the performance of the prosecutor's office as a prognosis, and we get the praises, even though we see that Hungary's international perception is revealed, although there is catastrophic, catastrophic system-level corruption, and there is no progress here, but there is constant deterioration, and there is constant backwardness. Therefore, we cannot accept the 2018 report in any form. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-06-47	Thank you very much. And now it's time for Congressman Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP, to tell his thoughts from here on the pulpit. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Attorney General. Not much new can be said about the 2018 report. Not much new can be said compared to previous annual accounts, as nothing has changed systematically in recent years. We regularly see that the prosecution's activities, if we are to judge them, cannot be treated uniformly. Indeed, as has been said by my opposition colleague who spoke before me, there are a lot of people working in the prosecution's organisation, who do their job without politics, with integrity every day, enforce the laws, and take responsibility for those who have violated them. We thank you very much for your work from here. By the way, I'd like to remember what I said the other day, that the 98.1 percent investigative success, I don't want to live with puns, it's starting to seem a little strong, so I'd rather put it this way. And don't forget that behind this, it's not certain that you have just and exclusively the almost perfect job of the D.A., which, in the field of life, is not very imaginable anywhere, but that there is also a phenomenon behind it that, in the cases that, say, the police or the prosecutor's investigation itself doesn't seem to hold you properly, with a percentage of evidence, it simply doesn't press charges. And obviously this is also due to the great percentages of internal competition, internal evaluation, benchmarking and parliamentary reports, but behind these cases, if I know of such matters, which I am aware of, the police have complained to me about, will always remain a victim, a victim seeking justice, deprived of justice, and will always remain a criminal who is not held accountable behind these matters; both undermine society's sense of justice and the rules of its operation. I therefore ask, or I would like to warn you, that this should not be a percentage competition and not a diligent competition by way of operation, but that this work should indeed be about the conduct of cases. With all this, once again, we thank those who do it with honor every day. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] However, the D.A.'s office as an independent judicial authority cannot be named, Mr. Attorney General. Many would think that he is a minister of the political system, but he is not. At the moment, the prosecutor's office, under your leadership, is the most important pillar of Viktor Orbán's and Fidesz's pro-state system, and I am not saying that, Mr Attorney General, but Viktor Orbán, President of Fidesz, the current Prime Minister of Hungary, said it with his own mouth on the day of your election; it is the most important pillar of the system, not an independent judicial body. And we can see that at the same time it covers corruption in the ranks of the governing parties, either in relation to the leadership and economic moonyards, it provides them with criminal protection, integrity, and at the same time it plays the role of the political club against its political or even economic opponents; that is, the governing party, but most importantly, the Prime Minister. The latter is typically and specifically related to you, Mr. Attorney General, and to your narrower environment. I'm talking political considerations, I'm talking senior prosecutors, and I'm talking about the activities of the Central Detective Attorney General. And the fact that you've been the Attorney General for the past 16 years, we've told you countless times over the past 10 years that there has never been any real progress in one case, just confirming what I just said, and we've been telling you every time for years. But if we look back at your 16-year-old activity, I'll tell you what small stones this road is lined with. Kaya Ibrahim, Josip Tot: the case where the money-laundering companies of the Fidesz Moonyard and its surroundings have been removed and closed forever with the help of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. The Millenáris Kht. We may remember that theft of the 12 state economies from one day to the next may be remembered. These are all cases, Mr. Attorney General, where no objection has been found by the Hungarian independent judicial authority, which you run. Tamás Deutsch's gate procurement case. Elios case, just to talk about the last time. [[Dr. László György Lukács is replaced by Dr. László Varga in the notary seat.]] The Szekszárd Szekszárd in Trafikmuty is recording, and it has not, in any case, exceeded the threshold of the prosecution's stimuli. The solar cell factory in Csorna: hundreds of millions, perhaps billions, of state and European Union money are being recorded by a company, the current president of the Republic of Hungary, to cut tape, that there will be a super small investment, which will be terribly supported by him, and the money will disappear, and the factory will still be missing. According to you and the prosecutor's office, there's no suspicion of a crime in this case. Pharaon: let me not specify how many points the government's leaders have broken the current rules and sanctions on this issue. Portik-Rogán's bribery charge: they said that Portik could not be trusted, that he was not dealt with; it seems to me that there are some cases where he is considered to be trustworthy, and that others use his testimony in criminal matters. The Moscow visa factory: we may remember it, where the question was not only how many billion forints are missing, but also that the national security interests of the whole European Union and Hungary in it have been compromised by the fact that they have given the Hungarian visa to members of completely unworthy, even organised criminal circles, and through it the European Union's mobility. Or the bald thing that bothers us in particular personally, but I think that, aside from the corruption cases, it typically shows the function of the political pillar to the prosecution. Mr. Attorney General. How can you do that? ! As a simple lawyer, answer me as an eye or a Democrat, if you look at yourself like that, watching with your eyes closed that the exercise of the most fundamental constitutional right of any citizen, that he may submit a referendum question, by physical violence in a public building, can be prevented by bald thugs? ! [[14.00]] How is there no consequence in this country? How do you say this is a democracy, and whether you and the organization you run is doing your job with honor, it's based on one case? I'd like to ask you. In the US ban scandal, where countless U.S. authorities conducted different procedures and imposed penalties on their own American company operating in Hungary, you did not find any problems. In the settlement bond case, where hundreds of billions of people were cleared from the budget, you didn't find any suspicions. In the Microsoft scandal, in which your prosecutorship was specifically concerned, since you were a purchaser of these licenses, which were also punished by the US Commercial Office and by the Ministry of Justice, because you found that your own company acted corruptly in Hungary, that the company's head in Hungary was replaced, that everyone found the responsible person, that it was not okay for overpriced software to be distributed to public organizations, and that millions of public funds, billions of people were eliminated, and that you and your prosecutors did not think there was anything to look for in this case, no accusations, no suspicions. And I could say the case of Flórian Farkas, who is very, very kind to sit here in Parliament and press the buttons as a very important key player of the 133 brave people, where it has been clearly established that billions have been removed from EU funds, and instead of spending money actually on catching up with the Roma and getting out of poverty and poverty, or just being a law-abiding, respectable citizen as many of those who are not today have stolen it. Now he's sitting here pushing the buttons. And there's no suspicion of a crime in you. During the same period, our fellow Member, Dezső, was pulled and pulled as a staff. But let's just say that there is a very serious crime against the nation before the court of Parliament, Márta Demeter, who, by the way, quoted or not quoted from a non-public ministry document, and then decided by the court. These are really bad crimes, Mr. Attorney General. Or just the good-looking fellow Member, who, as a Member of Parliament, will stand before a court in the absence of immunity for posters. Ridiculous, Attorney General. But there's one case that's not even a little ridiculous, and that's MTVA, and that's what happened there, and what you're doing with this case. The independent Hungarian court, whose decisions even you must respect, clearly stated in the first and second instance that as Hungarian MPs we were legally and officially in that building, there was no possibility of using physical violence against us. The one who gave the order to push parliamentary representatives and kick and push should stand before the court. Well, what kind of world do we live in? On the tapes of László Varju, it is perfectly clear that five people are jumping on him, a Member of Parliament in a public institution! That's when the court said he was legally there. And even if he went to an area where they asked him not to go, they couldn't ask him not to go, there couldn't be a consequence that five of them would jump on him, put him on the ground like a criminal. It's pretty amazing. And after that, László Varju will be brought to justice, that's really a North Korean tempo. Mr Chief Prosecutor, I can finish with what my fellow Member Bárándy said in 2017 at the end of the debate at that time, and I would like to quote you that it is still current:. Historical crimes, since they are usually committed by the representatives of power, are of the nature to judge and condemn posterity, sometimes when those involved are no longer alive. Photos will be posted later on the museum walls, and posterity is not usually or not based on the dogma of criminal law, but on historical, social and political grounds. I wish you, therefore, good health and a long life, that you will live well. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-06-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members, and with a special respect, I welcome Mr Attorney General. The next speaker will be Mr Gergely Arató, lead speaker for the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-06-50	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. I have to say that we are in a strange time machine, because for the specific reasons of house organisation, I could say that, on the basis of the House's arbitrary decision, there is only a way to negotiate the 18-something in 2020, which is, of course, a clever way to reduce the responsibility and the control role of Parliament in this matter. But we are not in a happy situation where we do not know what happened in 2019 and what happened to the prosecution at the beginning of 2020 and I will obviously do so, because the picture is only visible in its entirety, especially because the year 2018 is also an important milestone on the road where the former State Prosecutor's Office has now become a party state prosecutor's office, which represents the legal needs of a party, not through the state and the state. I apologize to the KDNP for not seeing you as an independent player in this regard. I must say, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that from the year 2018, we cannot say what I said at the National Court Office that was the worst year of the National Court Office so far, because since then the prosecution has been able to sink deeper in the years to come. However, 2018 was also shameful, scandalous and sad from the point of view of the prosecution and, more broadly, the Hungarian rule of law. The vet horse of this year is the Elios case, the case when it was found that there are people in Hungary, especially if they have proper relatives, for example, they belong to the family of the Prime Minister, who, despite all reason, evidence and fact, cannot be touched by the hand of justice. And while Mr. Attorney General is always saying that the police have closed the procedure according to the new criminal proceedings, that is true, only six months before he was investigated by the D.A., and it seems that in six months the case could not have been established, because otherwise the police could hardly have done it to terminate the case. And, of course, there would have been a way for the D.A. to correct it again. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]] What's up? There is a case where there is a strong suspicion that I should be very polite about the fact that the lighting units obtained from EU money are not lit on the one hand, but on the other hand they cost much more than the goods. Look at me strangely, Secretary of State, I'll tell you to come to us at Gyal, and then I'll show you a few streets lit by Elios, perhaps you'll change your mind; I could say that the street that Elios blacked out, and then you'll change your mind about whether it's real or not. And the fact that this use of EU money was not regular, we know not only from what we could read in the press, of course, that the prosecutor's office does not read the newspaper, but it would not get information from it, although it might be useful, especially because the DA's unbroken practice of leaking information to the press about cases that are not yet legally possible; that, in the case of opposition representatives or persons otherwise associated with the opposition, the details of the prosecution's work are always out of the press, of course, one-sided, reflecting the prosecution's position, because it seems that the prosecutor's office is writing the newspaper but does not read it out of its own hands. But I'd like to get back to the Elios case. In the case of Elios, we know not only from the newspapers that there is a problem, and not only from experience who has been to such a settlement, but OLAF, the European Union's anti-fraud organisation, has also presented in a long report the type of irregularities in this case. The OLAF investigation is not just about the fact that the lamp is not bright enough, or it is not about how much it costs to account for Elios to the European Union, and how much it costs if it is simply purchased by someone, so it is not only about overpriced, it is primarily about the conflicts of interest and doubts that have arisen in organisational and operational terms. [[14.10]] The fact is, it seems that the prosecution had no intention of having a real investigation in this case. And, of course, I understand that it was investigated twice because it was closed once, and then OLAF came, and then they decided that it would be embarrassing to conduct the investigation initiated by OLAF. The D.A.'s tactics are to conduct and effectively close cases initiated by OLAF that do not affect pro-government politicians, do not affect the government, do not affect pro-government relations, and, while initiating investigations in those cases, lays down files for a few months and then terminates them. In this way it can be said that, well, we have investigated all OLAF cases, but unfortunately we have not succeeded in all cases. It does not succeed in cases where there is a concern that can be regarded as a political concern. What's the consequence of the Elios case? In the case of Elios, the consequence is that the government has taken EU support from the EU aid package, so the Hungarian taxpayers pay the party, there is no EU case, and from that point on there is no case, the investigation is closed and it can be forgotten. I do not want to go through this one by one, but the case of the Solar Battery in Csorna is similar, my fellow Member has already mentioned it. Cases relating to the establishment obligation are similar. This is where we learned that the D.A. doesn't read the papers. Similar is Lajos Kósa's excellent colleague's business with the heiress in Bell and the related contracts. These are all cases that, according to the D.A.'s office, don't match the level of the crime, and there's no specific evidence of a crime to describe the prosecutor's favorite standard response. I must say, therefore, that in 2018, too, the prosecutor's office has proved very delicate and politely ineffective in investigations involving the government, pro-government politicians, businessmen close to the government. In these areas, the D.A.'s office has, for some reason, never been able to do a successful job. There is a very similar picture of another interesting symbolic story, and these are abuse of electoral fraud. We're talking about 2018. For example, the common abuse is that signatures do not jump from one party's marker to another party's marker. Obviously this is no surprise, we know that this type of recommendation system has been established before the previous recommendation system in order to open the way for this type of abuse. But what happens here, too, is that there are many cases, there are many cases, there really are many cases, and a significant part of them ends with an indictment, just like the case of Elizabeth and Terézváros, the case of 314 signatures, which weirdly appeared on the electoral records of the Motion Party and Fidesz. The police were investigating that case, but they couldn't find anything. There's been a crime, no unsub. The situation is similar in the case of Zugló. The same peculiar phenomenon occurred that the same signatures appeared on the marker sheet of Fidesz and the same small party. In this case, it wasn't possible to determine who was doing exactly what. It is very difficult to get rid of the suspicion that there has been no substantive investigation in these cases, I know the police have been investigating, but we do not have to repeat to each other that the prosecution has the means to conduct a police investigation in an appropriate way, so in some way, somehow, in these cases, the prosecution has not been able to succeed. Right in the cases where Fidesz is involved, for example, in the case where the current Member of Bajkai was the Fidesz candidate, well, in these places these investigations somehow failed. In other cases, the D.A.'s office is very effective with regard to the election. For example, it was not a problem for the State Audit Office to launch an investigation into electoral costs following its rather unilateral claims. There was no problem in bringing proceedings against a DK politician in the case of an alleged audio recording made by an old, well-established BM specialist, although it is a good one year late. I'd like to tell you later why the timings are so weird. And I could keep going. So there are cases in which the D.A.'s office investigates effectively, somehow not in those that the government parties are interested in. Or I could mention this poster-wrecking case myself, although it's not a 2018 case. That, no, when the poster was destroyed, he was struck with the hands of the law on the perpetrator in which he was a member of the opposition. By the way, if I speak very gently and politely, I have found that the posters of opposition parties were also corrupted in connection with the elections in 2018, both industrially and with public workers and municipal officials, but it does not seem to have caused any problems for the prosecution or the police, it is not a problem unless Gergő Kálló was the one who, otherwise dressed in disguise, was tearing up both the betterman and the other opposition posters in 2018. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] That's the one thing I can imagine. So, I have to say, the D.A.'s office has a very weird way of measuring me in these cases, too. In the end, of course, I can't go without saying anything about what happened in MTVA. If there is a test of how the rule of law works in Hungary, then this is it. This is the area where we have already moved on to 2019 and 2020, because although the case started in 2018, later developments characterize these two years. I have to say, the D.A.'s office has taken another step in this case. Unlike previous prosecution practice, to be more precise: keeping this up, but going further than this practice, when the prosecution in certain criminal matters appeared to have investigated effectively or ineffectively at least on the grounds that they were otherwise involved in government or fidesz interests, in the case of MTVA, the government... I am sorry, the prosecutor's office is confused with the government, sometimes and not by chance. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] So, I'm sorry, the D.A.'s office has made very clear policy decisions. I have to say that there is no reasonable reason for the prosecutor's decision that, in a situation where Members of Parliament were later present in the territory of a state institution, there has obviously been excessive violence against them, and there has been no reason for it, either legally or according to the relevant rules, that since then we have had the amendment which would clarify the rules on armed security guards at several points, in a situation where there is a very strong possibility that violence against official persons has been committed, so that Members have been the victim of a criminal offence, in which case the prosecution was deemed necessary, in relation to the Member of Parliament, László Varju, against whom they acted violently on his back, who was pushed to the ground. I must say that this is absolute absurdity, and a legal argument cannot be made. There was obviously a different kind of political intent behind it. And what I mentioned about the timing, I wanted to tell you that it's very worthwhile to observe when the D.A.'s office took action on this thing. They thought about it for a year. Or maybe it took them a year to look at the video footage. It's hard to imagine here, I'm sure we'll find out later from the indictment how complicated evidence was needed. Or it is, Your Honor, that you are politically timed. When Fidesz decided, at the beginning of the year, to give up all of its ideas for moving the country towards some kind of normal operation, or to move the country towards some kind of rule of law operation, and to make the political decision to base its policy ideas for 2020 on confrontation and further action against the rule of law, then the prosecutors also suddenly had to press charges against László Varju. [[14.20]] It is very difficult to miss the connection between the two, and I have to say that this kind of practice reminds me of the practice of retribution after the '56 revolution. It was the power at that time that waited for a year or two after the revolution with the lawsuit against Imre Nagy, but with a number of other lawsuits, when he felt certain of his situation. It is very difficult to get rid of the suspicion that this timing was not a professional, but a political decision. Finally, I have to say that I obviously agree with my fellow opposition Members that, of course, the vast majority of the people working in the prosecutor's office do conscientious and professional work. This was also the case in the darkest periods of the Hungarian prosecutor's office, even in the darkest hours of history, in 51 or 58 anyway, many of the prosecutors dealt with matters of public law that had no political implications. However, this does not excuse the administration of the prosecutor's office and does not absolve members of the prosecutor's organisation who do not act in accordance with their oath. The way you treat your own prosecutors and how you discipline yourself within the prosecution's office and what you consider to be valuable in the prosecution's work is also well illustrated by the case of the prosecutor who was removed from the prosecutor's work by disciplinary means, allegedly due to some facebook posts criticizing the government. This case, as I understand it or recall, is still in progress, in the first instance, if I remember correctly, has won this case, so it has been proved that the prosecution has acted unlawfully; we will see what the second degree will bring. To be honest, I think that's a great indication of what you think of the prosecutor's work and what you think of the independence of the prosecutor's work. In summary, I can therefore say that, unfortunately, we cannot support the prosecution's report, but at the same time I feel the situation is much more serious. I have to say that, with regard to the prosecution, the restoration of the authority and the legitimate functioning of the prosecution will be an important task that the majority at that time will have to resolve. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-05-06-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent representatives will now take part. I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, who will give her speech in place. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-06-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Peter Polt, We all know that we are not living in a democracy, and this hearing or account, as you call it, is certainly an opportunity for us to confront you directly, who are living with a lot of complaints, and we are living it on a daily basis, as you sabotage it, in many cases by abetting a crime, the way that the Fidesz-KDNP has done in this country to the heavens. I'm sure that the way this world works is to do it for a while, Mr. Attorney General, but then there will be a moment of truth for you. There was talk in this Chamber about bald people who were hindering the work of the representative body, which you did not have a problem with; Lőrinc Mészáros's many businesses, the sale of Mátra, I look forward to the developments; Viresol, I have just made my criminal report, and I also look forward to your reaction; but from the Microsoft scandal to the Pharaon case, the Elios case, there are a lot of things that have gone by your wings that, I think, deeply hurt the sense of justice of Hungarian citizens. Today's result is that Hungary is no longer a democracy, but a hybrid regime. You are one of the main foundations of this hybrid regime, because you ensure that these crimes remain unpunished, and these politicians and the party they represent will be able to win without penalty on Hungarian citizens, destroying health care and destroying education. This is the result of your activities and your work, Mr. Attorney General. But there is one thing that concerns me personally, and I am very curious about your opinion. Looks like the Pesti Guys need to be read to find out what's going on in the world. Because it was a total accident that we discovered that it was written in an article in this particular Pesti Guys article on 6 April, which so many opposition representatives know so closely, since our press conferences are regularly being disrupted that the Central Investigator's Attorney General has terminated the investigation into the disruption of the operation of the public interest plant and other crimes following the MTVA operation on 16-17 December 2018. We're getting a little tired of it, Mr. Attorney General, of the fact that the propaganda media is getting to know the prosecution's decisions sooner, of the prosecution's ongoing leak into propaganda, of the various materials, and we also know that you're not investigating this. I'm asking how you're going to proceed in this case. Because it's a very interesting story. So it's a little controversial, to put it this way. On 17 December 2018, with several of my fellow Members, we reported violence against an official because MTV's security guards with selected weapons were violently treating Members of Parliament in the public media. As a matter of fact, after about a month, our report was rejected without a witness hearing, saying that you think I walked there from a pass, as Bernadett Wind, not as Bernadett Wind as a congressman. Of course, this didn't hold up because I couldn't get into the institution without presenting my representative card, but that doesn't bother you. And while our complaint has been dismissed, the alleged violations of MTVA and its employees have been caused by interference with a public service plant and suspicion of other crimes, as I said, ordered the investigation; 94 cases are known. As you can read in the Pesti Guys, after nearly a year and a half, all proceedings have now been terminated on grounds of lack of criminal activity. It is said that in this particular resolution, which was leaked from the institution you run, the behaviour of opposition representatives in the building was disturbing, but it was not capable of significantly disrupting the operation of the public service. Good. Here's what I'm asking you. How can that be, and how will a formational logic be followed, Mr Bajkai listen to me, because he is very keen on dealing with me in legal matters, but this is going to be shaping logic, economists and sociologists with common sense understand that, while the prosecutor's office said that our aim was to interrupt the live program, that is to disrupt the public interest plant, and because of this they rejected our complaint, the MTVA report was now rejected on the grounds that our movements in MTVA were not suitable for disrupting the operation of the public interest operation? So the D.A.'s office says we didn't interfere with the operation of the public interest plant? Don't you think the two decisions are in conflict? And I'm asking you how this document leaked from the facility and why it leaked to the Pesti Guys. It's not a rhetorical question. And there's the other specialty, the case of fake parties, which, I think, played a fundamental role in destroying democracy. I would like to tell the taxpayers that party support has spent 2.4 billion forints on real parties, fake parties. This means that the maintenance of these parties will cost this country more than that of the real parties. These parties have one purpose, Mr High Prosecutor and Honourable Parliament: to rob the opposition of votes. In his 18th year, according to analyses, this decided specifically two thirds, because the two-thirds of the mandate depended on one mandate and two mandates were given by the Fidesz fake parties. So that pretty much decided the two-thirds dominant position in the then elections. In 2010, 6 parties were able to set up a national list in 18, 18, 14 and 14 parties, and from the 23rd of 2018 there were 14 fake parties. Now, what we need to know is that all the rules are designed to help these fake parties breed at the time. I do not quote these numbers now, but I want to talk about the fact that since the 2017 amendment of the law, the SAO has stopped investigating the use of fake party subsidies, because the parties under 1 percent have to pay back state aid, more precisely. And here's what I want to talk about. Last November, I asked the NAV how much money was recovered from the fake parties; the answer was that since the 18th elections, HUF 2.6 billion has been tried to be recovered, and until the 15th of November, HUF 16.7 million has been owed. So that's 0.63 percent of the debt after the election. [[14.30]] The same is the case for prosecutors, and there is no consequence of the misuse of campaign subsidies. Three years after the elections in 14 you simply terminated most of the proceedings. Last November I asked you, Mr Polt, how are the accountabilitys in the proceedings launched after the 18th elections. Then it was your saying in the reply of November 14, 19 that 47 investigations were initiated, of which 8 were indicted and 4 were final convictions, also one and a half years after the election; 47, 8 and 4. I also asked you about the procedures for abuse of the recommendation forms. 208 cases in investigation, 96 cases in progress, 10 indictments, 8 final decisions, whatever that means. I ask you, and be kind, to answer exactly how many cases there has been a final conviction on the irregular use of campaign support for the 18th, how many cases there has been a final conviction in the case of referral fraud, exactly what is covered by this final decision, and if there has not been a final conviction, why not, why not. How do you see that question? I would also like to ask you about the hunger in transit zones, just because I've already investigated you once, and I find it a little brazen that a Member of Parliament who isn't an authority and doesn't have as many people as you and the government do in the middle of the summer. I'd be happy to do it, but then I'd just have to go to that institution, and then I guess that wouldn't work out the way it is right now. But let's look at 2018! By the way, I find it outrageous to discuss 2018 in May 2020. This is also an example of how you empties democracy. But it's okay, we'll get ready, we'll come and ask, we'll just be a little bit more excited about these reports and accountabilitys soon, hopefully with the active cooperation of voters. So, 2018 was the first year of transit zone starvation. As we know, the new rules came into force in July 18th, and the law says that there is no need to provide care to rejected asylum seekers under the alien police procedure. This law is clearly contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, to the prohibition of torture and inhumane treatment. I know how the system works. This is exactly what it looks like, that if you notice that someone is starving, you will be told by lawyers to Strasbourg, Strasbourg will call you, the right institutions, and then these people will be fed, and depending on how quickly the phones are ringing, when these people are individually evaluated, they will receive food. This is outrageous, because even if someone is to be kicked out of this country, it is also time to be put on a plane or deported. I think that in the meantime we would have certain obligations, not the fate of the Hungarian state budget, Lőrincen Mészáros. However, eight cases between 8 and 21 August 18 were denied food and even prevented church and civil society organisations from feeding these people. Also, children were separated from their parents at mealtimes to prevent family members from sharing food. I'm just saying, it looked like the kids were being hauled out of there, sat down in a separate sector, gave them the food, the biscuits and the soda, but the kids couldn't eat around the police because they felt a little tense. They put the biscuits in their pockets, but then they were told no, no, they had to throw it in the trash can, they couldn't take it home. That's what it looks like. I'm just saying, for a little bit of reality to come across everyone here. The point is that the European Court of Human Rights has ordered all eight persons to receive the food immediately. I filed a report on the famines, and, as I mentioned, I investigated the case. However, the National Bureau of Investigation finally rejected my complaint on the grounds that the failure to feed persons under the foreign police procedure cannot be illegal under Hungarian law, since there is no legal provision requiring authorities to impose such an obligation. Good. I'm asking you why the D.A. hasn't brought the investigation to you, as you can do in any case, and what is the position of the Attorney General on transit-zone hunger, and on inhumane treatment at all. We know that hunger is ongoing, and since August 18 they have done this to 34 people, and the last time it is May, the European Court of Human Rights has ordered the Hungarian State to be fed in April. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you to answer this question as well. In the case of fake parties, in the case of MTVA, in the case of transit zone hunger, I expect all questions to be answered. And, of course, I could continue with the Elios scandal, as so many have done before me, because it is a very special case, given that the scope of this matter extends to the Prime Minister and his family. Here, practically even the investigation was denied, they didn't even get to the witness hearing, the whole thing was sabotaged the way it was, and if you were to run that institution properly and not be the glove puppet of Viktor Orbán, this whole thing would be a budget fraud and fraudulent treatment in a criminal organisation. This is what the Hungarian people's language calls the mafia, which is about this standard. Compared to that, as I mentioned, there wasn't even a deposition. In fact, the National Bureau of Investigation has sabotaged the investigation, and the Pest County Attorney General's Office has been willing to assist in doing so, which, for them, would be a misdemeanor and accomplice if the legal order worked properly here. I'm not gonna play theater for anyone, gentlemen, in the pro-government benches. I know perfectly well that Péter Polt is one of the bastions of being in Fidesz-KDNP power, since we are filing a series of complaints and he rejects it. However, I respectfully tell the Hungarian voters that once Péter Polt comes into this House, I feel it is my duty to offer him the questions that we constantly ask each other in different communities, now most in the epidemic situation on Facebook, and also in constant public hearings on the street, causing a lot of annoyance to a lot of justice-loving and law-abiding Hungarian citizens. Your role in the current Mafia state and increasingly dictatorship is to keep the fort for the ruling parties so that they can't put anyone in jail the way they deserve it. For my part, I am deeply outraged by your entire work and activity, but I am not willing to look at this without saying anything, and if you are here, I will ask you the questions that many people are asking me. And I'd like to ask you to at least answer these questions. There will come a time when you won't be sitting in this chair anymore, but you will be in a completely different position in a completely different place. May the good Lord grant us all that we finally have integrity, justice and other civil virtues in this country, among which it does not look like this to discuss the report of a supreme prosecutor in the Hungarian Parliament, and you do not do your work as you do, practically as part of the governing parties, practically as a pro-government politician, not as an independent and respected, truth-loving man in this country. I can't thank you for your work. I don't support your report at all. As an opposition representative, I think it is my duty to warn you to stop, and I know you can't do it, because those who have given you this mandate do not expect you to do so. But there will still be a time when a different system will work in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-06-53	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have two-minute comments. I'm asking you if someone would like to speak in two minutes. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Then there will be speeches by ordinary representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bősz Anett. Here you go, Congresswoman. Madam Congresswoman is also speaking from her place. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to read to you one of the most important sentences in the report before us, which is as if it were not just a report by the High Prosecutor's Office, but also some kind of country report. The sentence reads:. The number of registered corruption crimes increased almost double in 2018 compared to the previous year, which is already close to the peak in 2014. This means, fellow Members, that we find this country in the second most corrupt state ever, by discussing a report in which NER has been exercising power over Hungarian citizens for the eighth year. This was provided by the system of national cooperation. With all due respect, I would like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives to the fact that your previous summit was also created during your governance, and that in 2014, you were on the government for the fourth year. So the two shameful, exploding corruption figures were seen under your government in this country. And I was very pleased to note that the Attorney General did not hide this in the material. Not only is the majority of the government thick, but in the majority of the municipalities there is significant Fidesz-KDNP overweight, and in addition to its existence it is possible to have such a corruption rate in this country; my opposition colleagues have already talked about it several times. [[14.40]] This is, therefore, one of the most important lessons of the prosecution's report. At the same time, the substance surprises me when, in some way, it makes use of itself to conclude that the concept of high-level corruption does not exist in a professional sense. Mr Attorney General, although we do not seem to be able to interpret it as a criminal law concept, domestic practice is very well aware, I therefore find the paragraph of the report critical of the European Commission's findings to be unprofessional, that there is a high level of corruption in our country. I would like to talk a little more about these cases, because the work of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office often encounters the abuse of office and corruption of the highest political and economic circles, yet there is a suspicion that the person concerned has a strong influence on the speed of the proceedings and the outcome of the cases. I'll give you some examples. Dear Attorney General, The Bridge for Work programme, which was launched by the National Roma Municipality, led by Flórian Farkas, lost 1.6 billion forints and failed to produce any tangible results. OLAF has already submitted a detailed report on the case, in which it was essentially established, and I quote: the Labour Organisation National Employment Cooperative has been registered, but it has never worked in substance. Once again, 1600 million forints lost to nothing. By the way, I note that our Roma compatriots continue to live in completely unworthy socio-economic conditions, so I find this pull particularly vile and that you were not motivated by who is responsible for the loss of this money and that this programme has not started. This case will cast a shadow not only on the 2018 but also on the 2019 report, as it was four years ago in 2019, but we also see that after four years of investigation, not even a single suspect could be questioned last summer. However, I would like to turn to a relatively successful story, which is the story of György Simonka, whose case the paper is trying to relativity by noting that: In the course of its work, it was learned that, on the motion of the General Prosecutor, the National Assembly suspended the immunity of a Member of Parliament, and rushed to add that, not long after that, an investigation of similar crimes against a mayor was launched. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I am aware, by the way, of the conduct of the governing parties and the government in which it seeks to build some kind of opposition scandal in addition to the confused affairs of a pro-government representative, in order to cast a shadow on the crimes of your fellow Members, but I do not expect it from a professional material, but rather from a professional material, I find it particularly shameful, Mr. Attorney General, that you have also used this method, and that you are acting in this material as if the matter of György Simonka had been blown up by the press alone, and that there would be nothing to see here. However, I think it is a step forward that our fellow Member has already lost his immunity, but I am saddened to see that the Member is sitting still in this horseshoe, so this investigation is not going too fast. It is a good question why the Honourable Attorney General assists in ordering these investigations to fail, or at least so slow down, that they will not be able, by chance, to put government representatives in a bad position, not in the way that my fellow Member Gergely Arató mentioned László Varju's case here! Let me quote the speech by the president of the immunity committee at that time, who said that László Varju's crime was to grab a man's calf. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Well, I don't know, I think you could ask our fellow Member László Varju for a life sentence after such a crime, but we'll see what you can do. In any case, they tried very hard to imprison the congressman, while still in the campaign period, to show the Hungarian society what villains are sitting here in these opposition benches not so among the pro-government representatives! The next notable point in the report, I quote:. In view of the special nature of the detection of corruption crimes, effective cooperation between the Central Investigator's Attorney General with various investigative authorities, exploratory bodies and the National Defence Service is essential. The operations units of the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the various police units, in particular the Alert Police, provide significant support to the staff of the Attorney General's Office in carrying out on-site investigations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable and honest, Mr Attorney General, that two rape organizations are working together with you, but let me highlight a few other cases where there have been only writing decisions that have been lost, which cannot be reversed, because the content described in such reports is important, but the content that has been left out is even more important. Because I understand that, for example, TEK's armored men are not enough to investigate effectively and quickly the case of my fellow Member, István Happy and colleagues, but they are no longer able to see how the three Facebook posts of one of their prosecutors, otherwise unpublic, could have resulted in the end of a 13-year-old prosecutor's career. The documentation that a previously decorated prosecutor's colleague had been deprived of his office under shameful circumstances has been omitted from the material before us. The decision was attacked by the former prosecutor in court, Balázs Papp, who started the trial, worked as a prosecutor for 13 years, of which he served as a district attorney, deputy chief, in economic lawsuits, and in crimes against public rest. Let me note that the material made available to the press does not clearly show how biased the Attorney General's Office was at all with regard to the three non-public Facebook posts, and it is not clear that the Attorney General in Budapest, who finally proposed the loss of office of Balázs Papp, was against his former colleagues, since it is clear from the negotiating material that there has been a disagreement between them before. I'm sure you've had your eye on this, Mr. Attorney General, but I'd like to ask you what you think of the two cases I've raised. One of the biggest political and economic scandals of the year 2018 was undoubtedly the Elios case, and the European Union Anti-Fraud Office revealed serious irregularities in public lighting tenders for a long time unbeatable Elios Zrt. for public procurement. During the audit of 35 public lighting projects, 17 applications were found to have committed organised fraud. Now, OLAF has demanded that the total amount of support be withdrawn, or at least it has been asked to be taken into account in our country, and while OLAF's investigation has not only been completed in the reference year, but it has already been proposed for the punishment by one of the European Union's organs, which we have, imagine, have not found a single person who could be suspected at all, or that the press's questions about corruption issues related to the nearest inner circles of the Prime Minister have been swept off the table by: Oh, please, there is nothing to see here, because we cannot accuse anyone. It is simply impertinence, Mr. Attorney General, what you have shown in connection with the Elios case. However, we still need to talk about a case involving several deaths and reaching Parliament since then, and this is about the case of Lajos Kósa and the Mrs Beller, where she has entrusted her legacy to our good-hearted fellow Member, and if you ask me why I am also talking about death victims, because the son and husband of the heiress in Bell have committed suicide since this investigation started, honourable Members. I think that in this situation, it is impossible not to pursue the investigation of this crime as soon as possible. But I would like to say that there is not only sadness attached to this fabulous legacy, which this lady wanted to leave to our good fellow Member, since, besides the two funerals, there has been a wedding between those involved since then. I'm sure you've heard of this, Mr. Attorney General, imagine that the newly widowed lady in the criminal case has found love, and has remarried, and will not find out who she is: a witness in criminal proceedings against her. [[14.50]] From now on, this witness is no longer obliged to incriminate the heiress of Bell. It is very interesting that you have saved our fellow Member Lajos Kósa from this crime, through the love threads, and I look forward to what history books say about it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There are no rules in love and war.]] I think that the opposition fellow Members here would very much like to hear the opinion of the Attorney General on this matter. Last but not least, I would just like to thank the Attorney General for his important role in language renewal, which should be addressed in particular in Article XXI. To become degenerate in the use of language that appears to be in the century. Because when the dividend paid by Antal Rogán's inventor's company landed on a Swiss bank account, OLAF was investigating 30 cases, worth HUF 9.7 billion, not only to the Hungarian authorities. And the sentence that I would like to thank Peter Polt in closing is this: they suspect that, quote, they have misplaced EU funds. Mr. Attorney General, that's an extremely nice term for stealing, and it's innovative. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-06-55	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, My fellow Members in their previous speeches have listed in quite detail all the errors, omissions and crimes committed by the High Prosecutor's Office, led by you, and, unfortunately, the line could continue for a long time. I'm not gonna do that, because I know all these accusations about you are going down, and you've gotten used to them over the last few years and decades. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I'd like to speak to your conscience. I do this because I believe that every human being can and wants to do good by being purely human, and that he will not lose his ability if he has to commit a great deal of evil in his life because of external circumstances or his own decision, or if he overlooks it and gives his approval to commit such evil. I believe that you, Péter Polt, are such a man, who, deep down inside, is well aware that what you give your name to is infinitely wrong. And every corruption case that is committed either in front of the scenes or behind the scenes, every crime that your office has to cover up, somehow leaves a mark on your soul, and that will preserve your conscience, even if you try to suppress it deep down, and find self-certification or self-absorbed to do all these mistakes, mistakes, and sins. I'm asking you to think back on your 40-year-old self. As a 25-year-old young man, as a graduate of ELTE law, you will receive your degree in law and think back how you felt at the time. I am sure that he had many plans and longings in life to work for a more legitimate and fairer Hungary. And now imagine that your present self, Peter Polt, would meet his 25-year-old self 40 years later, then what would you say to him? What would you think of this man? Would you be proud, Mr. Attorney General? Or would you think that you would be appalled by the sight of what money, power, and political pressure can do in a person's life? Also, please consider, Mr. Attorney General, what is the message of keeping you in office for young law students who are now putting their whole lives and careers in line with the sacred letter of the law. You, who embarrass his office every day, what kind of example can you give them to follow? Have you considered, Mr. Attorney General, what personal responsibility do you have in the last 30 years, 30 years after the change of regime, that the law is now again the handmaid of politics? And I'm going to add that over the past 30 years, more than 16 years have passed under the quality of your attorney general. How does it feel to get up every morning, Mr. Attorney General, knowing that you still have to cover up crimes today? How does it feel to drink your morning coffee and tie your tie and let more political mobsters run today? How does it feel when you see the name of a powerful fidesz potentate on the display of your phone, and you get a cramp in your stomach, because you know exactly why someone calls you, what is expected of you, and you also know that this phone call cannot be pushed out? How does it feel, Mr. Attorney General, to go to the office every morning with a clear understanding that you will not be able to provide your office with a clear conscience? And how does it feel to go home and look your kids in the eye that today hasn't been able to do that? And from the look on your face, Mr. Attorney General, I can see that that's more than just a word. How can you even sleep at night? You didn't turn around in your bed, thinking that if the political winds turn that way, would you find yourself very easily on the bench of the defendants? He used to wonder if the real friend would meet you in trouble, and if these mobsters had fled the country a long time ago, sipping a cocktail of their stolen property on some island, what would happen to you? Will anyone be there for you? Or do you trust and trust these people so much that they'll think of you and you'll have a place on a yacht or a private plane? Do you trust so much these people you're covering up, whose crimes you're covering up, how will they think of you and help you get away with it? Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I know I'm not gonna get an honest answer from you today. I also know that there is no point in calling for you to resign now, and I will not pretend to think that you have a real choice in this situation. Because I am well aware that the political and economic mafia family of which you have become a member can only enter above a certain level, but you can no longer quit. I will not judge you, as some of my opposition fellow Members have done, and this will be done by the court of this world or the other world, and all I ask of you is that when this whole debate is over and you get a year's breath again, and you go home and think about it, then you will remember and ask yourself that question and answer this question, not for me, but for yourself in particular: was it worth it? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-06-57	Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that we are debating the report on the prosecution's activities in 2018, and we are not giving moral instruction, so I would ask all speakers to talk about what is on the agenda, preferably. Thank you very much. Next speaker was János Stummer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-06-58	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Attorney General! Well, let me begin by saying that I'm not particularly thrilled that you're going to be offended by me or by the sentences that will be heard in this room in the next few minutes. And I don't particularly care what the consequences of telling the truth I personally will have to endure and accept. And why do I think that? Because I believe and confess that our most sacred and most important duty for Members of Parliament is that if the minions of power are in front of us in this Chamber, we will tell them the judgment that hundreds of thousands and millions of Hungarians think. Among other things, and in this case, your operation, Mr. Attorney General. [[15.00]] In the next few minutes, I will not evaluate the 2018 prosecutor's report in detail, just a general judgment, an opinion on this report, on which I am sure that this is not just my personal opinion, but that of many, many tens of thousands of Hungarians. These people think, Mr. Attorney General, that in 2018 and the following years you were not in the service of justice, but in the personal service of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. These people also think that if the Prime Minister is out of this country, there's still a man in this country who has a first-rate responsibility for all the ten years that are now behind us, it's you. And why? Because, Mr. Attorney General, you didn't do the work you were supposed to do in this office in the years 2018 and around. In this office in 2018 and in the surrounding years, it would have been your job to make sure that the guilty person, regardless of his or her position, regardless of his or her social status, regardless of his or her political relations, is convicted, and if he or she suffers innocently and is dragged innocently, he or she will receive satisfaction, but you have not done so, and this is not what you have done. You, as the Attorney General, should have served and defended the truth, not the Prime Minister's family and business associates. There's not gonna be a long plea speech that I'm about to make. I am not going to list all those dirty cases from the last few years until the end of the day, and my opposition fellow Members have done so before me, which you, as the Attorney General, missed in 2018 and the next few years in the service of power. I'd like to say something important to you, Mr. Attorney General, and remember this, please, because I'm only going to say it once. The thing is, your golden age is over. Take note of that. It ends in these weeks once and for all. In the years to come, Hungary can no longer do what has been done since 2010 when the masses were still with their money. They won't be able to do it in the next few months and years, so, so, so, so, so, so beautifully, so beautifully smeared, covered up, covered up these dirty stories, and covered up the ten-year crazy and shameless mugging campaign that you've conducted in this country as an organized gang of criminals since 2010. This time is over, because when the people realize that this global economic crisis that's knocking on their door is going to bring them into poverty, a lot of people, their families, their friends, relatives, their acquaintances, their villages, their cities and everything that they know around them is real, and they're gonna see it on TV, and they're gonna see on the Internet, and they're just gonna get fat, and they're gonna keep ringing, like there's no tomorrow, and these people are gonna get bored, and they're gonna straighten the scythes. That's what's gonna happen, Mr. Attorney General. And then this golden age will be over, but be careful, be careful, because they've already taken the blame with you. Dudes will still want to steal, the billions will still ring, the screen will still have to be held and the blame will still have to be taken. Is that you, Mr. Attorney General? The speakers before me didn't say it, well, I'll say it: resign now, get your tent now, try to hide from what's coming now, because sooner rather than later, the people's wrath will strike you too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-06-59	Honourable Congressman, I can only tell you that the debate was about the prosecution's activities in 2018 and nothing else. Now we're at the end of an opposition round. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél asked for the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-06-60	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Happy István's indictment states that he has made a legislative amendment in order to reduce the penalty. I would like to ask which legislation this was.
u2020-05-06-61	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to speak among the two-minute speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then we will move on to the next round of normal speeches. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-06-62	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Members have made it easier for me to say that what belongs to the political sphere and can be charged with the prosecution of the Attorney General has been done by them. As an economist, however, as an economic man, I must confront him with what he should have done, and he has not acted. We also need to talk about what is going on in the public procurement market in Hungary during the 2018 negotiations, but also later in the 19th year, because ministers and Fidesz potentádok have been saying about this issue in the last few days, and it was surprising to me when Gergely Gulyás said that among IT and healthcare procurements they realized that the number of single-playing procurement procedures was extremely high. Do you understand, Mr. Attorney General? After ten years, our country's leaders realize that there are market anomalies and that there are supposedly unwarranted profits. But I do not wish to be incorrect, so let the numbers speak, and it shows where the force of intervention would be, which you have missed. By the way, I think that my fellow Member in Bajka and I had a productive debate on public procurement a year or a half ago. He tried to reassure me that the proportion of single-playing public procurement has slightly decreased compared to the previous one. If that's the case, I'm not saying it's comforting, but I certainly welcome the trend. At the same time, because the proportion of single-playing public procurement was brutally boosted before 2010, and now it is only very, very high, but still unsanitary, allow me not to sleep calmly on this issue, as we see that the proportion of single-players in terms of the number of high-value public procurement has still not fallen below a quarter. We're talking about brutal values. Last year, 3430 billion HUF, I do not say that the public procurement market took me, but this is the amount that went through this system. In this system, a lousy small 1 percent loss of efficiency also means tens of billions of HUF, which is less useful from the probable sources of Hungarian people, or if we are bad faith or just realistic, it disappears through corruption channels. We are talking about 7.5 percent of Hungarian GDP. If we look at how much Hungarian companies and companies produce each year, then more because, unfortunately, the proportion of the Hungarian mkkv sector in GDP is not as femoral as it could be. But we also see that we are talking about 8811 successful procedures only for the year 2018, and here, even according to government statements, which, by the way, are slightly distorting statistics, the proportion of single players was well above 16 per cent overall. This is where a small polemic emerged, because the European Commission has examined high-value public procurement, where it has found that the proportion of public procurements for high-value ones can be estimated to be 26 per cent, for which, due to one actor or other suspicious circumstances, it can be assumed that public funds are being made through net corruption channels or that abuses are taking place where you would have a minimum responsibility for investigation and action. None of this happened. [[15.10]] It is quite funny that it was one of your homepages, in my memory, that it was the Hungarian Newspaper, which even made the confession, because it was true that, although it is true that, in terms of high-value public procurements, this ratio is well above 20%, which can be challenged, but if they count the small ones and everything else that is fine, then the proportion of these is reduced. The situation is that what we have to talk about here is that much more than HUF 3000 billion per year is passed through channels that are at least suspicious and vague in relation to corruption mechanisms in Europe, and in the last ten years the Government of Hungary has not taken the necessary steps, but it is assumed that some oligarchs and good acquaintances of this system are also beneficiaries of this system. That is why I ask Mr Attorney General to consider this condition sustainable, at all, he considers it comparable to the market economy, because we see that in these procedures about 50 percent of the works, the type of works that we say are carried out by real estate developers discussed in yesterday's debate, for whom you had time to present a bill in the middle of the epidemiological emergency, which facilitates their investments through our Eximbank. It's been like this before, I told you, in my microenvironment, Obuda, it was quite rightly ordered to be banned from changing the Roman coast. I was fully supportive of this. Then someone came along, lobbyed, lifted that ban. Interestingly, a government contractor started to build a housing park in the middle of the Roman coast. Then, a month later, the change ban was again imposed, and no one else was able to invest there, I say again, fortunately. Mr. Attorney General, these are happening in Hungary today. Announcements, reports happen, procedures should start and sometimes start, and then die of ashes, but you can't say that they don't happen in today's Hungary. I see that 50 percent of the investments involved are construction. And what does Gergely Gulyás say? The fact that, in particular, it still considers the proportion of single-man single-track procurement to be harshly, irritatingly high in terms of healthcare procurement. Well, me too. But you just figured that out, after ten years, in the middle of an epidemiology emergency? So my question is clear: do you consider all of this to be acceptable, and do you feel comfortable sleeping in the knowledge of such economic processes? I mean, if we just put the share of money on corruption channels in this system to 10 percent, it's also in the order of 300 billion, and believe me, not everyone's as good faith as I am on this issue. It is certain that, although certain cases may lapse, and you may think that if the right time passes, those who would otherwise have had to examine them will also be exempt from all consequences, but over a certain irritating mass it is not certain that the people under the dome can be protected from the wrath of the people. This is what I want to prevent, and I still have a little cheating, blind hope, a very faint hope that decency can break its way through this system. It is not because the decision makers who have been in existence for 30 years want it, but because transparency in a globalised world may be easier to achieve and it is easier to obtain certain types of information. I would like to emphasise once again, so it cannot be undertaken, it cannot be held that thousands of billions are at risk on an annual basis, every year, the lives and income of Hungarian entrepreneurs are at risk, and in the meantime, it can be said that those who have an obligation to act on this issue are not necessarily, not always doing their job. And if I don't want to be more misguided, then I'm gonna finish this sentence here and give you the opportunity to answer, to react. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-06-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Bajkai, from the Fidesz Group, will speak again. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As the President said earlier, on a somewhat warning basis, and pointed out that the debate is now taking place on this item in the prosecution's 2018 report on it. He said that, rightly so, Mr President, because I felt, and I took note of it for myself, in a somewhat similar way, in his report on the year 2018 of the OBH, that while I took the quote from the OBH, the work of the OBH could not be contradicted at any point that it would not have been good, likewise none of the points of the prosecution's work that were included in the report could not be disproved, but in fact, those who did not like it to you or you have expressed their views on the former president of the OBH, they have now explained this point in relation to the person of the Supreme Prosecutor. This, however, cannot be linked in any way, and I think it also gives rise to a very misleading debate, to a kind of moral judgement from a higher point of view, or sitting on a higher horse, to use a more popular term or, sitting on a very high moral level, to judge others. I'll talk about what I'd like to refuse. However, in the beginning or for a few half-phrases, I would like to point out, in fact, the style of parliamentary debates, that, in connection with the speeches that have been made, both Mrs Bernadett Szél and Mrs Anett Bősz have actually taken advantage of the depth of the Hungarian language when they failed to state the position of the chief prosecutor in this debate. This is important because it is in parliamentary culture, but in the culture of communication, in the Hungarian legal culture, when one is entitled by his office to address him or his name, Mr. Attorney General, or Mr. Attorney General. [[Affirmative Anett and Dr. Wind Bernadett interrupt.]] I am only saying this to you before I get to the point that this is part of culture, culture and the style of parliamentary debates. [[Anett's intruding. Dr. Wind Bernadett: When he behaves as a prosecutor general would expect. The president's ringing the bell.]] The term "Mr. Polt" was used in case you didn't remember. First of all... [[Anett and Dr. Wind Bernadett keep interrupting.]]
u2020-05-06-65	Congresswoman, if you press the button, I will give you time for a two-minute speech, but there is no room for this private conversation here, please note this. You don't want me to start the house rules discipline procedures here. Here you go, Congressman, carry on.
u2020-05-06-66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Speaker. First of all, I'd like to live with a metaphor. Somehow it seemed to me from the opposition's speeches that they had all the knowledge, all the knowledge, and therefore all the other conclusions were drawn. Why do I say that? If you had to build a criminal trial or create a criminal prosecution as a law enforcement officer, then you would probably have the order of order from this high ground of view where you sit or where you imagine yourself to write the sentence first, then we'll write the indictment, then we'll conduct the investigation procedure, then we'll write the most important documents in the investigation process, then we'll write the report at the very end. Probably with you, as I've just heard from the speeches, that's the order. You have a final judgment, a complete conclusion, and everything is adapted to that. Their conclusion, more precisely their starting point, is that you know the truth, that you have all the knowledge, and that everyone else has bad or worse information or is doing the wrong thing. I would also like to say this because the central element of your speeches is that, if there is any connection to the 2018 report, it is, in fact, that all of the corruption offences you claim or suspected have not been discovered by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. It was said in the report that the effectiveness of the reconnaissance had increased. I think we should give this a compliment. So that means the prosecutor's office in the Attorney General's report was doing his job. Why is that important? It is important because when we talk about you bringing up different cases in our legal studies we all know that each case has its own facts and each one has its own legal assessment. If someone wants to build a legal process from the news, it is considered extremely unfounded from a legal point of view. If someone claims something but has no proof, but believes that he is right, this is once again questionable for the conduct and effectiveness of criminal proceedings. I think it means the rule of law, it means the proper conduct of criminal proceedings when the competent bodies, the investigative bodies, are convinced that they are trying to fully detect the facts, establish the facts and draw legal conclusions. Today, in this debate, in the speeches, I have heard news, information, opinions, evidence, arguments, such as that, and yet I must say that any kind of speech or any kind of evaluation, particularly in a sensitive case where the prosecution raises accusations and where not, must be very well founded. [[15.20]] All aspects of the prosecution, such as those contained in the law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, must be identified in all the facts which affect the determination of guilt and also in the direction which states that there has been no crime or committed by someone who might be involved in the proceedings as a suspect. I think that this thoroughness and this detail can be called into account, and in your case I can use apologies, simple and general terms, but we have heard all these accusations today, if it was not what you would have wanted it to be, in some case which is not acceptable to you. This is precisely what indicates the independence of the prosecutor's office that they are not complying with the complaint, because the prosecutor's office is not a servile executor of a complaint, but an independent authority which evaluates, evaluates, assesses that there is suspicion, the suspicion is justified, if the proceedings are initiated, can prove that a criminal offence has occurred and is responsible; inter alia, I would not go any further into the science of criminal proceedings. My summary opinion on today's speeches is that these are actually inventions of intuitions, accusations and various, rather malicious press reports. I was. At the same time, I must say that, when it comes to the corruption index or the magnitude of corruption, we have discussed this once again on several occasions, at the Justice Committee's meeting in sufficient depth, and there is a need to distinguish between a sense of corruption and the magnitude of corruption. No one tells me that, let's say, in Botswana, they have the same concepts, if there is a European interpretation of corruption at all, such as, say, Denmark, Hungary or Finland. In particular, it is debatable that a person refers to a civil society organisation which is not otherwise checked, how accurate his data is, how accurate they are, how biased they are, how scientific they are at all, no one checks it, so on that basis he says, as a summary judgment, that if Amnesty International says so, this is true. I think that the basis for every sensible human thought is to express doubts, just as you have expressed doubts about the activities of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office or the Public Prosecutor's Office, where appropriate. I think that is what I would like to suggest to you, do the same with regard to your own sources of news, because this is the true evaluation, and it is the responsibility of a Member of Parliament to say what he says, what he says, and why he says it. In this matter, I can only comment on the opinion of my fellow Members that it is fair to be fair in all directions and impartial in all directions. As you expect, for example, I am not referring to the prosecutor's office for the judges to be completely impartial, that is what I am asking you to look at your own resources and your own so-called intelligence when searching for the truth with similar thoroughness and criticism. Some of the sentences may be related to the allegations and, in general, what you have formulated. In the end, the use of public funds was made. I'd just like to give you one piece of data, to be more specific. I am not sure that every study in this direction is familiar with how public money is spent in the world or in the European Union, but you should know one thing, because this is a fact that spending public money in Hungary is one of the most transparent. See how data can be obtained in the data of our electronic procurement system, how it is public, how it can be learned with a click of a button, when, under what circumstances, what offers have been made. Try to do this, say, in France. I'm just saying as an example, if you like to study public procurement. The Hungarian public procurement system is one of the most transparent, which is why they can communicate so much data, and rightly so, they have the right; we all have the right to do so. At the end of my speech, at the beginning of which I wanted to emphasise that your speeches did not actually concern the accounts of the prosecutor's office in 2018, but could be regarded as a set of accusations. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I quoted your minister! What's the point?]] However, I would also like to reject, in the spirit of parliamentarism, the fact that the Attorney General was also threatened and threatened in general. They usually threaten anyone who's not on your side. To tell you the truth, I find it unusual to hear, in the sacred place of Hungarian legislation, that someone is threatened with imprisonment, with the impossibility of his life, and with consequences such as, say, the rise of the people's wrath. For example, it is a Member's responsibility to say what he says, how he says it, and on what basis. One more brief remark, although I know that this does not contain any new elements of the facts. Depends on a procedure, if you are not aware of it or if you are not informed of it from your own initiative, or if you are not aware of it as a public awareness fact, the prosecution will also be subject to complaints about the procedures to be initiated. Having placed the central element of what they have to say on corruption crimes, I should also add that it is obviously one of the most important features of corruption crimes that is the most difficult to find out. This requires, where appropriate, data, reports and requires a strong investigative work. I say this to you because if it has risen, and the number of reports has not, to my knowledge, increased in this regard, but there has been an increase in the number of cases of corruption, it means that the prosecution is doing this work more effectively and has a great conscience in exploring individual cases of corruption. It is also worth comparing if you are particularly interested in the development of these reports and the rates of indictment efficiency and the relationship of corruption crimes in our Central European region or in the European Union. There was also a case on the part of my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, which is a distinction between destruction and freedom of expression. Obviously, we do not know the individual case again, so it would be another case if I were once again in a classroom in a group in which we had to know all the facts in order to draw a legal conclusion. Similarly, as our fellow Member Bernadett Szél said, it is only possible to have the same opinion in the same case, another fact may be subject to another legal judgment. That is why, for example, János Stummer, sitting behind our fellow Member Csaba Gyüre, when I remembered 1848 on 15 March, was tearing up my posters to see that he was doing this. For example, I think that it was an expression of opinion, not the poster element, but that it was important to make the audience feel that they did not agree with my speech, although I do not know what part of it they did not like. That is why I say that the distinction and knowledge of the facts are important for each legal judgment. That is why it is important not to speak in general against sin, but to urge the authorities acting against each crime, in general crime and crime, to make the right assessment of each fact and to pursue sin. I think it can be said with good conscience that the prosecution's report for 2018 clearly indicates that the Hungarian prosecutor's office is one of the most effective organisations in Europe and worldwide. Thank you again for your work, and I reject the threats. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2020-05-06-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches. First, Congresswoman Anett Bősz asked for the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-06-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to István Bajkai's latest statement, in which he made a false statement about me. You asked me not to address the Attorney General in a worthy manner. If you will listen to my speech, I have repeatedly called you Mr. Attorney General. Yeah, I did call her name once, but I think it might not be a crime. Unlike you, I have come to this House to tell you the truth, my honourable fellow Member. I know that in the pro-government benches, by the way, the type of smearing campaign in which if someone is telling the truth, they're trying to make him look like he's disrespectful himself, he's not normal, he can't control his temper. An example of this is today's Facebook entry by one of your party partners, András T. Mészáros, on me, to which I congratulate you. I think, Mr Congressman, that in my case, these political provocations will certainly not reach their goal. That's what I'd like to say to you. I strongly draw your attention to the fact that you just lied about me. Thank you for listening.
u2020-05-06-69	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. However, I am obliged to draw your attention to the fact that at the beginning of your speech you said that, unlike you, I am thinking of your initial statement here, and I am not saying the sequel, which offends the Member. So I think that's why you need to apologize, or you need to think about it. I will continue to give you the opportunity for two-minute speeches. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind is next. [[15.30]]
u2020-05-06-70	So, before the parody, I really can't find any signs anymore, the entire Hungarian Parliament would drown, and I would like to stress here that there are political debates. I am very sorry that the Fidesz and KDNP Members have such a sensitive soul and cannot deal with the attack of two opposition Members, but then I have one thing to say: answer the questions. I asked Peter Polt about 20 questions, and I add that Mr Bajkai is not in a position to teach me courtesy here. Corruption reeks of Fidesz and the entire KDNP, and this man, who is here, is responsible for, among other things, doing this without any trouble, without going to jail for people who should have been struck by justice in the past. He's the one who keeps the roof over these people so they can't fall on what should have fallen on them a long time ago. Sir, My fellow Member! Don't teach me how I speak and who I am in this situation. Because you steal, Hungarian health care, education is ruined, people are starving, people are splitting up, there are no social support, plus the pandemic, and you are seriously messing with how I address Peter Polt? Well, let's not make fun of each other. Be kind, reduce yourself, this is a political debate we're in, you're not in a position to educate me, you're not in a position to school me, and you're in no position to call me into account for my prerogative, education, and my behavior. If anyone has a problem with it, it could be the senior president who can signal László Fat, who will obviously like to punish me for anything that comes to mind, as he does now, I don't know, eight years ago. But be kind, in political debate, keep to political facts, answer questions, and do not be sensitive. I don't think you people are so weak-hearted to be afraid of asking questions. Is it?
u2020-05-06-71	Congresswoman! You've accused two factions on a regular basis, so think about it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let them think.]] I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik. No more debate, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-06-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, would like to respond to my fellow Member from Bajkai. I know that neither Anett Bősz nor my fellow Member Bernadett Szél need my protection because they can defend themselves, but I think it was really unjustified to accuse them of what my fellow Member Bajkai said, because we did hear tough speeches, but I think that none of them has crossed the limits of permitted civility that one can afford in a parliamentary, if necessary intense, emotional debate. If you'll allow me, I would also like to respond to the chairman's objection that in my speech...
u2020-05-06-73	Don't do it! Don't do that, because you can only do that in the context of a point of order or I will have to withdraw the floor from you.
u2020-05-06-74	I see. Then I'd just like to talk about it in general...
u2020-05-06-75	That's possible.
u2020-05-06-76	...if anyone had asked me why I didn't respond to what was in the Attorney General's annual report, but I generally said moral judgment or moral grudges about his activities, because I believe that in all public offices, especially in the case of the Attorney General, the course of life, the work done cannot be separated from the man himself. I am well aware that, in order for a person to reach such a high level of public dignity as the Attorney General, he must undergo a very serious professional and moral screening, but that is precisely why I would think that, after his election, he would test someone's credibility by not acting in the spirit or not in the spirit of what the course of life he had previously entered would have predestined. In closing, I think that every time we listen to such a report, we cannot and must not separate the person in charge, the work done and the professional and human way behind it. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-06-77	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker is Mr János Stummer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-06-78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Bajkai and his speech. He summoned this 15th March 2018 here. Then let's get this straight once you've brought this to the House, what happened in those days and those weeks. I would like to add, however, that there is a discreet charm when, following the Attorney General's report, the Orbán family lawyer lectures me on what can be said about the Orbán family prosecutor in this House and what is not. I would like to point out, for the sake of the record, that when it took place, Mr Bajkai, what you insulted here in this House, it was because, in the days preceding that, we started in a constituency in 2018, the posters of opposition and the posters of my posters were full of your posters, while you gave the speech at Klauzál Square, and that is why this poster was scratched. And I would also like to share another story with you from the spring of 2018, which took place a few weeks later, not on Klauzál Square, but on Budaörsi Road, when we defended posters posted by Jobbik Hungary Movement. When your posters broke in front of your billboards, and we questioned them about what they were doing here last night, and what they wanted to do with these posters, you know what happened, Congressman? An unmarked civilian car was jumped by armed men, pointing us to the side of the local bathroom salon, pointing the gun at us. Do you know what's happened in this case since then? Ask the Attorney General over there. Nothing at all! Nothing at all! Thank you very much.
u2020-05-06-79	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. Péter Polt's signal:]] Yes, he wants to answer. I'm asking you, the Attorney General will answer from his seat in the debate or from up here. [[Dr. Péter Polt: I'm coming up.]] I'll wait for Mr. Attorney General to come up to the stand. [[Dr. Péter Polt is going up to the stand. Z. Carpathian Daniel: On the same day the better man was broken into...]] Here you go, Mr. Attorney General. 30 minutes is the time frame available to the Attorney General. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-80	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm not in an easy position because the Attorney General is not a political actor, he's a professional. The Constitutional Court has said this on several occasions and stressed it, so it is clear that my speech must take place here and now within a professional framework. At the same time, as Mrs Bernadett Szél said, there is a political debate, and professionalism is very difficult in the context of this political debate. [[15.40]] Allow me, perhaps, to illustrate the situation, since Mr Bajkai also mentioned the importance of parliamentarism, I should like to briefly tell you a story. This is from the Parliament of the late 1940s, at the end of the coalition government at that time, when the Communist Party had already had a very strong influence on the country's life and gained all positions, but it was still a democracy. Here in this Parliament there was a debate on a very important immunity issue that affected the rule of law and affected the sovereignty of the country. One of the small farmers argued long-term in favour of his position, until, finally, he lost patience with the prominent representative of the other side, György Marosán, who was as straightforward and outspoken as we sometimes experience in today's Parliament. He intervened and disturbed the speaker, and the President warned him that Mr Marosán would have the opportunity to present his legal arguments later on, but György Marosán replied that Mr President, I have no legal arguments, I only have political arguments, but they beat your arguments; and they really hit him. I think I hope so, and that is my belief that we will not return to this age. I apologize for this short parable, but I think I may have made it clear that it is very difficult to do politics and the profession side by side, and I am forbidden to do it, and I am not doing it. As far as the specific issues are concerned, I therefore do not wish to respond to questions of a political nature, nor can I do so. I do not want to respond to threats; this is a rating of those who threatened me. I would like to respond to the professional issues that concern the year 2018 or raise questions of general principle that could otherwise be used in the 2018 report. I predict that I can still answer a lot of things, but the timeframe is not enough, so, like the practice of previous years, I can now say that the professional questions that have been raised here and I have not been able to answer for not only the reason that the timeframe is short, but also because, let's say, they were not related to 2018, they will be answered in writing, on the basis of the protocol, we will collect all such questions and we will answer them. Then I would like to say a few words very briefly in this framework and accordingly. I would add to Mr Vejkey's comment that, indeed, the acceleration measures remained extremely important in 2018, and we were led to improve both legality and timeliness. 2018 was one of the years when timeliness was one of the best indicators of the prosecutor's organisation. Mr Bajkai spoke about the objectives of the new Criminal Procedure Act and briefly summarized it. I would like to stress that the new law on criminal proceedings has put a much greater burden on the prosecution, greater workload and greater responsibility, since a significant part of the cases has been given the opportunity to finish matters more quickly and without lengthy judicial proceedings along the lines of material justice. This procedure started in 2018, and I would like to say so much I might add that it is also very successful to continue. Mr Bajkai also said one more thing that I would like to respond to, because it has not been said in my oral amendment, even though I attach great importance to it, it is juvenile criminal matters. I would like to say in the written report that the prosecution's aim, in line with the law, is not essentially to punish minors, but to correct them and to use the means available. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, he said quite a lot of things, which later came back in other Members' contributions, and there are some things I will answer there, some of which I will answer here. Corruption and corruption index have been mentioned in one and more places. For many times, I say again here, too, now that there is a difference between the criminal concept of corruption, the social perception of corruption and the corruption indexes, there are links, but there are also fundamental differences. What you're talking about is these particular corruption indexes, these are usually called perception indices, so they convey a sense of corruption, that's their approach, that's their methodology. What we are talking about and published in the written report and in my oral amendment is different, it concerns crimes, specifically concerning the investigation and assessment of corruption crimes in Btk. And we're not bad at this, and I think that we're not bad at international comparisons. It's a different question, and it's possible to argue whether it's the corruption indexes that aren't watching the crime part, and it's not about investigating or not investigating, it's about crime, whether it's known as a corruption crime, or whether it's a latent corruption crime, in all of this, I'm saying we're not doing so badly. I can see the corruption perception indexes, and you can argue that they're good, they're not good, we're moving forward or we're moving back. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the State Audit Office has done a lot of research in terms of methodology and has made very interesting findings, and it should be addressed at some point. I mentioned to others that there was indeed a huge increase in corruption in 2018, but I added that this is not because corruption has increased, but because of the fact that the effectiveness of intelligence has increased, partly because of organisational changes that occurred in the prosecutor's office, because of the fact that separate departments have already dealt with the investigation of corruption and partly because of methods that have strengthened the possibility of intelligence detection. Here, the role of services is extremely high. I would like to say that all the reports made by OLAF in corruption cases are also taken seriously, and we are launching investigations; even if, and this has been the case in some cases, even if there has been an investigation before, we will also start and look at the evidence that the investigating authority is already looking at, usually the prosecution will only supervise these cases, but we will order the investigation if it is already a closed case. So we take OLAF seriously, despite OLAF's investigation of administrative irregularities, while the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office look at these cases from a criminal point of view. And it must not be confused, there are different, one and the other, in criminal matters, much stricter conditions for any condemnation. Congressman Gyüre also said that it could not fulfil its role, because there is no investigation. Yes, there is an investigation, there may be an investigation, because if you live with your own private life, and the court accepts it, because the court decides to accept it, then the court can order the investigation. He's ordering it. There's an example. But let me say this because this was not said in the oral amendment, but it is probably not included in the written report for this year, 2018, that the results of the additional private charges are inversely contrary to the prosecution's indictment: while we achieve 98 percent indictment, the prosecution's results are around 2 percent. What does it say? In my view, it shows that the D.A.'s office made the right and right decision when a case was lifted and it didn't take me to court. He was about two percent wrong, that's the same as when he filed charges. I think there must be so many mistakes in the game. [[15.50]] For others, in terms of complaints, many Members have said what comes from the legislation. You said it, and I know it's not the D.A.'s desk, because we're law enforcement. But if you look at our case law, it has occurred in many cases that the prosecutor, if he wasn't otherwise involved, was offended by the case, yet complained, couldn't have done so formally, then the D.A.'s office reviewed the decision of its own motion because it had some problem with it. So it's a possibility. He also talked about vacant posts. Indeed, there have been; there are fewer and fewer of them. The reason for this is that we always look for jobs and raise people for jobs, and only people who fit the position. So just in order to complete the numbers, we don't fill the posts, but the others are working a little bit more, but we don't want to change quality in any way. In fact, in connection with the prosecution's investigation, Congressman has answered what you asked. The result of the decrease in the final number in 2018 is that the Central Investigator's Attorney General has been investigating very complicated and difficult cases. This is where the indictment came up. Here, let me say that, of course, prosecution can be seen in different ways. It's an effective charge, if in some way the court makes an indictment decision, and that's 98.1 percent. But if you don't mind, I'll give you another number. The courts fully share the prosecution's position as 83.1 percent of the cases, so they decide on all main and ancillary matters according to the prosecutor's motion. This may be an even better indicator in substance. I think there is no contradiction with regard to appeals. If we look at the numbers properly, the indicator that Congressman has said or objected to will come out, but we will also look at this. There have been several cases of poster tampering. Indeed, as you said, the position has changed. The D.A.'s office, and I personally thought that if there was no tangible damage that separated the case from the freedom of expression for the first time, that would include freedom of expression. This situation has been changed by a decision of the Curia that the prosecutor has to adapt to this, which has stated that there is a criminal offence in these cases, a crime of destruction. There was a little debate about whether it was theft or theft of violence against destruction. This debate has now been straightened out. In all cases, it is an infringement or a criminal offence, depending on the extent of the damage caused. There is no difference in this, no matter who the perpetrator is and what color the perpetrator is. For others, the case against your fellow Member was not initiated by the D.A.'s office, but by the police. His immunity was suspended because he was elected in the meantime. Mr Bellman has brought up cases; he doesn't even care what the answer is. I think that these cases have been answered by the D.A.'s office anyway. You don't have to waste any more words. I have these answers in writing. Similarly, Mr harvesto does not want to hear the answer which I am surprised to hear, but here too is the fact that there have been several written questions in the cases he raises, all of which have been answered. Others have already been asked about these cases or several of these cases in the framework of previous annual accounts. We answered them all one by one. I would like to reject the fact that the D.A.'s office is either using conceptual tools or acting in an accomplice manner in any way and against anyone here. I think that this is once again the world of politics, it has nothing to do with the profession or the reality. Here I will answer the disciplinary matter that has been raised by several Members. In this regard, I can say that neither in the past nor in the present nor in the future will anyone be political in the prosecution's office, and if that happens, the person has no place in the prosecution's office. That's my personal opinion. For others, the court has ruled that there is a disciplinary offence against this prosecutor. Luckily, in recent years, there hasn't been much of a case like this, which also shows the involvement of the prosecutor's organization. So you've established a disciplinary offence, and you've only seen it at present not in proportion to the disciplinary penalty imposed. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél asked about matters that are not all related to 2018, (2) practically 100 percent of the cases have already been answered in writing. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true!]] He mentioned that, by the way. What you asked me was all answered. Let me make one or two general remarks. This is the case for decisions on the lifting of MTVA cases. In all cases, the reporters shall receive the termination decisions, or any person having any legal interest in them, and shall be required by law. That's how it happened in this case. It's obvious that the reporters will then do what they want with the decisions. There have been several complaints to others, several proceedings have been combined in the MTVA case, and this has resulted in one single indictment of one person. The court will decide whether this indictment will hold up or not. As far as the fake parties are concerned, many of them have also been asked, by the way, by Congresswoman, and these have also been answered. The investigations have been ordered in these cases, and, as you said, a number of cases have been prosecuted. In the matter of transit accommodations, I would like to say that it is not a place of detention. So he's not subject, he's not a place of detention under the law. Then, as a Member of Parliament, you can arrange to be considered one, and then the prosecution will have the right of judicial oversight to control these transit accommodations. Congresswoman Bősz, if you had been present at the oral amendment, you would have heard what I have already said that the increase in the number of cases of corruption was due to an increase in the effectiveness of detection in 2018. Now I repeat that this is a high level of corruption, not in criminal law, in criminal material law rules, so there is nothing we can do about it. Anyone can say that he thinks it's high and low. [[16.00]] Yeah, well, it looks like there's a little bit of a lack of information. The Bridge in the world of work said that there is no progress, and perhaps even said that I do not remember that there is no investigation. There may be so much investigation that you didn't say that, but I'm the only one who concluded it, but there are so many investigations that five people have already been suspected in this case, and I'm sure we're going to take this case further. Similarly, in the case of the Member mentioned by you, I am sure that he said that there is no progress so far that there has already been an indictment in the case of György Simonka, now the court will decide on his responsibility. I can also say that, for example, in the case of you, mentioned by others, the fact that someone committed suicide does not in itself mean anything in relation to the criminal aspects of the case; for others, there is, of course, prosecution and testimony in the case, which can be used for others even if the witness' status changes afterwards, so the testimony previously given can be used in this respect, I reassure you. As far as Congressman Benchik is concerned, all I can say is that I have actually spent a lot of years in the prosecution's office, and I have a good conscience, thank God. Let me put it this way: here many have mentioned that there is a good prosecutor and a bad prosecutor, which I never understood; that is not the first such remark. There is a prosecutor's office, and I would like to draw your attention to that, and moreover, this is a hierarchical organization represented and represented by the Attorney General, not only in ours, but also in many other places; there are other regulations, but in ours. There are no two prosecutors. There's a prosecutor's office. There's a prosecutor's office, and it does everything. If you think it's doing the right thing, it's doing the only prosecutor's office; if it's doing the wrong thing, it's doing the right thing. I do not wish to respond to Mr János Stummer's points, and I told you from the beginning what I think about this. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél asked a specific question. I would like to say that there is no charge against the Member mentioned in his specific question, but there is only an investigation. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked about public procurement. I think this is not my department, but I would like to say that the number of economic crimes increased by 15 percent in the capital in 18 years. And finally allow me one last comment instead of a summary. I understand that you respect the European Union, and in many respects the opinion of the European Union determines your opinion. I'd like to add an additive to that. In 2018, because this report for the year 2018 visited Hungary, Mr Ladislav Hamran, President of Eurojust, and gave a speech, let me quote a short detail. Mr Hamran said that the proactive attitude and commitment of Hungary to judicial cooperation are exemplary for all of us. Their support for Eurojust was expressed not only by giving us confidence in their operational work, but also by effectively protecting our interests in Brussels. In this connection, I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Péter Polt's long-standing commitment to EU judicial cooperation, in particular for his new and constructive proposals to improve relations between Member States and to make better use of Eurojust's potential. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That was Mr Hamran's opinion on the Hungarian prosecutor's office. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-06-81	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. I am now asking the President of the Commission, Imre Vejkey, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Mr President, I would like to inform you that your timeframe is 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-82	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, First of all, I thank the Attorney General and the entire prosecutor's organization for their work. This is the 2018 report. Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your patience and restraint after what you just said here on the pulpit. My problem with today's debate was that it was not about the subject matter of the agenda, it was not about the prosecution's activities in 2018 and not about the proposal for a Commission decision on the adoption of it; it was just about political squabbles. And if that was all, it would be easier to overlook, but what bothers me is that there have been many threatening speeches, which, I think, have no place or place in the Hungarian Parliament. So I can say that most of the speeches were unworthy. In addition to the above, I would like to say that I do not wish to explicitly deny the things that my fellow opposition Members have said, since the Attorney General has already done so. However, it is extremely strange that they are speaking on current, specific matters based on the 2018 report or on cases for which concrete answers have already been received. But even more surprising to me was what Jobbik's lead speaker showed that Jobbik was hiding behind Transparency International, behind its current 2020 report. This Transparency International came up with a view that Hungary has made six places worse in the corruption rankings. Ladies and Gentlemen, There are two problems in this regard. One is that, in my view, this ranking is extremely subjective, and the other is that, not on the subjective feeling, as the Attorney General said, the 2018 report should be founded here at the moment, but on the Btk. the facts of the law which have been on the agenda. So, so much for the corruption ranking. Then our fellow Member Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of Jobbik, brought up the European Public Prosecutor's Office and why Hungary does not want to join this European Public Prosecutor's Office. In my view, this was not on the agenda either, but if this has already been said here, a number of things should be noted in this regard. On the one hand, the European Public Prosecutor's Office could not create a single set of conditions in the field of criminal law. [[16.10]] And I believe that this would create an extremely dangerous situation. On the other hand, with regard to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I must say that it would restrict Hungary's national sovereignty. Thirdly, I must also say that Hungary's cooperation with various international criminal organisations, including OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office and Eurojust, is exemplary. And, as Mr. Attorney General said, the President of Eurojust was here in Hungary in 2018, Mr. Ladislav Hamran, and he said that the work of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office was exemplary. Exemplar! So as long as Eurojust says it is exemplary, the opposition has an unworthy word. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the contrast is too great. Tamás Bellozó and Gergely Arató have already been answered by the Attorney General, and also by Bernadett Szél. However, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél had, according to my notes, an address in which she quoted Freedom House, a news of Freedom House today against the prosecutor's activity in 2018. I certainly reject what Mrs Szél Bernadett said here by the Freedom House report that it would be a hybrid regime in Hungary. I assure you that Hungary remains a democratic rule of law, even if the opposition parties did not receive a majority from Hungarian citizens during the parliamentary elections in 2018, so that the fourth Orbán government could be formed. I could also confirm, on the part of Congresswoman Bősz Anett's speech, what the Attorney General said, that, on the one hand, the Attorney General and, on the other hand, I said in my expo, that in some categories of crime there was indeed not a general decrease, but an increase in 2018. And I specifically emphasized, because of the increased interest, that this includes corruption crimes. But at the same time, I also stressed that it was not about a negative change in the corruption situation, but it was specifically about a significant increase in the detection rate of corruption, thanks to the prosecution. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is what the facts look like. I'm sorry there were people who turned these facts around. Once again, I thank the Attorney General for his work, for the prosecution's work and for every single prosecutor's work. I wish you good health and good work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-06-83	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. The speeches following the agenda will follow. After the agenda, Mr János Pócs, from Fidesz, applied for a speech entitled "The Day of Rememptio Jászkun." I'll wait for the congressman to put the microphone on, please, Congressman. 'Cause you wouldn't have been the first one, but the first one who came forward canceled. So, Mr. János Pócs has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-06-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It's the 6th of May, so we jasies, kunas remember and remind you. May 6, 1745 is a famous day in the life of the Jász and Kuns. On that day, Mary Theresa signed a diploma that restored the old privileges of free jasians and kuns. The effects of redemption are invaluable, not only material but also spiritual consequences and still have for local society. The acquisition of property, social stratification, has led to the start of the jazz community. Dear Parliament, If anyone comes to us at the Jászság, they can still hear how many families, how many local residents proudly claim to be redemptus jas. This indicates that they are descendants of courageous, strong, entrepreneurial, hardworking people in their faith. Jászmagyar is a man who trusts himself, who makes sacrifices for the community. In 2014, on the initiative of the Hungarian National Assembly of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, the 6th of May was declared a National Jászkun Memorial Day. On this day the Jászkun settlements are celebrating, commemorating at school, drawing strength from Albert Wass' message that without its roots the plant will be destroyed, without its roots how one can survive. We owe thanks to the settlements of Jászság, the traditionalists, the mayors, the county government, and not least the Hungarian Parliament for making the memorial official. I am convinced that with this step we have made history. Together, we can proudly say that the sacrifice of our jasmine ancestors was not in vain. Dear Parliament, Now, when the corona virus keeps the world at bay, human relationships are appreciated, we feel the importance of conversation, communication, belonging, cooperation when circumstances deny us all this. I believe that with the passing of this test, we will be spiritually richer and learn to measure the value of another man, regardless of his religious or political affiliation. We wanted, as always, to celebrate this Memorial Day in a greater circle, more dignifiedly, but the circumstances have narrowed the possibility of commemoration this time. Still, I think that as long as we have a holiday in our hearts, it's okay. As long as the former acts live, the former heroes live. And as long as the Yaskun man claims to own the holiday, as long as he gives his hand to the other Jász man without a party, the unity remains. Dear Parliament, Redemption flows through the blood of the jasper man. At present, we have also shown in the crisis that, together, one of the lowest infections in the region is one of the lowest. According to the current survey, the economy of Jászság is temporarily falling by only 8 percent. Thanks to the economic operators of Jászság, thanks to the health care, the social sector, law enforcement, education, service workers, who, as they did 275 years ago, put their self-interest aside for the community, are ready for all victims. The message of self - redemption 275 years ago and today's global crisis is that we need unity in difficult times. It is also unity if we all want one, and unity is if we all want the same one in a different way. We, who declared 6 May 2014 a national memorial day with the unanimous vote of Parliament, are always ready for this. Dear Parliament, Loyalty, work love and tradition are still offered to the Hungarians today. On the Memorial Day, please consider our predecessors, who fought many battles from horseback, at negotiating tables, to preserve our main treasure, our Hungarianness, and to pass it on to our successors. This is our shared responsibility here in the Parliament and in all the Jászkun settlements. Thanks to our ancestors, respect for the jasies. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to conclude my speech with a part of the Jász anthem of Jászmagyarok band:. All we want to do is live and lie down here. For our father, for our sons, to preserve our family. Thank you for your kind attention. [[16.20]]
u2020-05-06-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Philip Erik has applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-06-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Unfortunately, we have been accustomed in recent years, decades, and even in the last hundred years to the constant rampage of Hungarian hatred in the Carpathian Basin, among the Hungarians who have fallen outside the truncated country, but I think that the Ceauşescu regime, which was the most domesticist, most Hungarian-hating regime in Europe, has been the head of the Romanian state thirty years after its fall, i.e. Klaus Iohannis makes statements that violate not only the Szeklers living in Transylvania, but all Hungarians living in Romania, and not just us, Hungarians, and even the Hungarians of the whole world, to blood. I would now like to quote Klaus Iohannis' thoughts on the Székelyautonomy Act, which, I think, amaze me by the 21st century. in the European Union. State President Iohannis, addressed to the leader of the Social Democratic Party, declared that the party and the leader of Transylvania were fighting to give Transylvania to the Hungarians, then welcomed the president of the PSD, the Social Democratic Party, and asked what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán had promised in exchange for the agreement. I think that I should not lecture Mr. Iohannis from history and draw his attention to the fact that, over the last thousand years in the country of the Holy Crown, his very many ancestors, the Saxons, have received autonomy, and of course I should not be the one to draw his attention to the fact that the Romanian ancestors of the present Romanian inhabitants have settled in Transylvania and part of Romania, the coastal regions under Hungarian kings. However, of course, our Hungarian Movement agrees with Péter Szijjártó's video message and statement that Hungarians deserve more respect, whether they live in Hungary or anywhere else in the world or in Romania, but we do not consider it sufficient. I think that we can rightly demand that the Romanian President Klaus Iohannis follow the Hungarians, apologize to the Szeklers, apologize to the Hungarians in Transylvania, and continue to apologize to the 15 million Hungarians who have now suffered serious damage. However, I think that, until this happens, the current governing party must take very serious diplomatic decisions, not only in words but also in actions, but also in actions, that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, and that the Hungarian government and Fidesz-KDNP stand up, as well as the Hungarian Parliament for all Hungarians, they can live anywhere in the world. Therefore, Mi Hazank Movement invites the Hungarian Government to ban the Hungarian nation and Hungarians from Hungary until Klaus Iohannis follows these statements. I think that this is a known practice in international law or a well-known activity, unfortunately Hungary was also a serious sufferer, as we can remember that President László Sólyom of Hungary was banned from the territory of Slovakia by the Slovak State in 2009 without any such statement or precedent. So this is the initiative of our country's movement, that's what we're trying to achieve. However, I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Members present and the Parliament to the fact that the 100th Trianon anniversary is approaching, and, unfortunately, because of the coronal virus epidemic, we cannot properly commemorate the terrible and unjust tragedy with which our country has been mutilated, but I think that the National Assembly may also be a partner in this commemoration, Fidesz-KDNP and all current parliamentary factions. Not so long ago, on 5 March, with fellow Members of the Hungarian Movement, we presented a bill to the Parliament in which the XXXIII of 1921, which still holds the unjust peace treaty in Trianon, was still in force. We would like to abolish law, since it is not legally, politically or morally appropriate in accordance with Article XXI. Hungary of the century. We are very sorry about the existence of an extraordinary legal order due to the coronal virus epidemic, but we cannot acknowledge that, with Trianon approaching, this Parliament is not putting on the agenda, and I would therefore like to ask the Hungarian Parliament and the Fidesz-KDNP governing party to put on the agenda as soon as possible the trial of this bill, and, of course, all Hungarian Members of Parliament will accept it, so that we can at least help Hungarians who have fallen abroad with a very small moral satisfaction. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-06-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát also applied for a post- Agenda speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-06-88	Mr President, Dear House, We are living in an era where, fortunately, the Hungarian country must not be protected by a weapon, of course, in the widest possible sense, I think of the entire Carpathian Basin economic zone and the Hungarian nation as a whole, because the Szekler National Council's signature-gathering campaign for Szekler autonomy is still taking place at the moment, and we must say that one of the easiest situations in history is where, through the implementation of an electronic signature, an initiative can be supported from home, which may have a meaningful impact on the future, and this initiative is obviously aimed at allowing national minorities in EU Member States to apply for development resources alone, even without governments, which, as far as the Hungarians are concerned, could also mean, fortunately, that there could be a great number of opinion makers from the grip of the current government. We also need to see that the corona virus has simply made the physical form of the signature collection impossible, but on the 100th anniversary of Trianon's disgrace it would be an amazing uproar and a very bad symbolic development if we could not even put out the direction indicator with online signatures, what Hungary wants from itself in this century. So far, the official call, and here's the unpleasant part. I spent long years on the front line myself, trying to help the fight for Hungarian families in the case of evictions, floods and the Hungarianity of the disconnected parts, yet I am surprised by the amazing wave of anger that this question can still trigger. It may be unthinkable among Germans, French and other nations that they dig such deep trenches among themselves, and we also see that since 2010, Fidesz-KDNP has done a great deal to further dig these trenches. With an amazing manipulative tender system, he tried to win opinion makers of the Hungarians of the torn parts, and Fidesz enemy image production and permanent war psychosis created a situation in Hungary where young people turned against the elderly, our retired compatriots, rurals against the capitals, and people living in truncated Hungary, where appropriate, faced people living in historical Hungary, and vice versa. This is untenable, this is unworthy, and a lot of people still think that whoever signs this initiative is voting for the power of Fidesz, because they think everyone across the border voted for Fidesz. Meanwhile, the truth is that more than one million Hungarian dual citizens live in the torn parts, and 240 thousand of them participated in the elections, and almost 800 thousand did not. Therefore, no one can punish our cross-border brothers for their political and daily reasons, since all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. It would also be an amazing loss of proportion to punish those who are equally exposed to the current Hungarian government without direct access to development resources, just like anyone else in the Carpathian Basin. Once again, it is a typical argument, but I do not consider the argument, "He who does not pay taxes here, does not want to interfere with the fate of the country." I understand the country myself, of course, with regard to the entire Hungarian body, but I could not accept a similar censor, which, let's say, links the possibility of forming opinions to taxation. Such thinkers would perhaps exclude our retired countrymen or the votes of full-time mothers. It's a long way from me, and I can't accept it. There are many completely unnecessary developments beyond our current borders, such as the Kenyan hospital, which is based on Hungarian aid loans, which we cannot call unnecessary as a hospital, and it is obviously important in Kenya that such an investment is necessary, but the Hungarian lending leg is at least questionable; but this is also the news of the protective equipment package sent to the Balkan countries, which is a missing item. These trigger a humming within us, and a one-day commentary on the web, typically; however, development resources destined for cross-border development are much more serious emotions that imply an unimaginably deep spike, an unconscionable social upheaval with which we should do something on the hundredth anniversary. [[16.30]] I can't even accept that Trianon was a long time ago, it was a hundred years ago. For when a man's grandparents, great-grandparents, are robbed, he turns his back on them simply because the loss occurred decades ago? A renunciation, a cowardly nation does crumble, fail its territory, its economy, its members will spread out into the world. At the same time, a brave nation seeking growth behaves differently, protects its own, creates a social network, and builds its corporate net in such a way as to employ a Hungarian person in the Hungarian-owned bank branch, and to have a Hungarian-speaking person on Hungarian-owned wells, while business-tax payments may not support Bucharest, but the Hungarianness of the broken parts. Such tiny mosaics would build the future, the path of Hungarian growth. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-06-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Andrea Varga-Damm, from the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-06-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, 45 years ago, Cardinal József Mindszenty, Archbishop of Esztergom, died our last prince. For three decades, the right-wing parties and government held József Mindszenty as a moral shield before him, and now on the 45th anniversary we reached the point that only the mining church in Dorog, two of our compatriots in Cologne, the Padányi school in Veszprém, and one of the portals, the Alfa news portal, remembered this anniversary. This is very, very disappointing. This man has done so much for Hungarian freedom and has done as much against the Arrow and Communist dictatorship as not many people have. The reason why he was a very tough man is why he can't be spoken of in a pious and self-righteous way; he's been so hard-core, he's stuck to his principles for the rest of his life. He was born in Czechism on 29 March 1892 and completed his theological studies at the seminary in Szombathely in 1915 and was consecrated as a priest on 12 June 1915. His way of life is extremely rich, and it is almost impossible to list the works that he has done to spread faith and Christian faith as widely as possible, and that way of life, a way of living with faith, is general, since he believes that good and saving can only come from this way of life. From 1937 he was a papal prelate, in 1939 he was the head of the Transdanubian National Political Service to counter Nazi Volksbund and Arrow effect, which defended Hungarian Christian-national values, at the request of Prime Minister Pál Teleki. CHAPTER XII On March 4, 1944, Pope Pius appointed him Bishop of Veszprém, Bishop of Esztergom. On 16 August 1945, the Pope appointed him Archbishop of Esztergom, and on 21 February 1946 he was consecrated as Cardinal. In June 1944, he protested against the Jewish abduction. At the end of October, when military operations reached Transdanubia, he wrote a memoir and asked all the bishops and associates to help us overcome this terrible burden imposed by the Nazi army on Hungary. On the basis of Christian morality, he demanded that the government stop fighting, because the war is not in the interests of the Hungarian people. In retaliation of this initiative, the Arrow Authority of Veszprém wanted to seize the Bishop's Palace for military purposes. Mindszenty denied it, arrested it, locked it in a basement prison, but even during his detention, he dedicated several of his senior priests to priests. On December 28, 1944, he was taken to the cell of the Divine Redeemer Daughters of Sopron, led by Teresa Berghofer. On June 20, 1945, he returned to Veszprém and took care to revive loose faith among his followers during the months of battle and restore the practice of faith. Archbishop's reservation was on October 7th at the Esztergom Basilica. On February 21, 1946, the Pope made him Cardinal in St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. On 18 October 1945 and 25 August 1947, he wrote a circular to the National Assembly elections asking believers to vote for evangelical parties. But this power did not tolerate it and was arrested and tortured on, 48 Christmases, 26 December, on 8 February 1949, in the first degree, on 6-9 July, he was sentenced to life imprisonment. He spent six years in prison. Cardinal Mindszenty's life and commitment to Hungarian affairs are almost untraceable. I would like to quote two of his thoughts at the end of the memorial. One said: "Our heart may tremble from the heavy, the unknown, the impossible, but God has often hidden the future of individuals and nations into the impossible tomorrow; we must begin to bring it forward. We need to rebuild our country with the little we have left. That's what we do in this world! We can't get rid of that, just hide from it. In the spirit of our youth, let us make the acquisition of the Hungarian promised land hot! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And the other is: The Church can always and everywhere avail itself of the right to judge political phenomena, when personal freedoms and souls, in the spirit's interest, require it. Whatever I say, the current regime will say this is politics. When I mention the Ten Commandments, the regime already feels found. To him, it is politics to say, "Your Lord, worship your God, and serve only him." If I say, "Don't kill." The regime's about to take him on. It's the same thing when I say, "Don't steal." This also affects them, although they don't steal, only they can check out. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-06-91	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the work of the staff of the Chiefs of Minutes, the Office of Parliament. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Good night, everyone. Meeting day's closed.
