u2020-03-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and notaries László Lukács will be here to help me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, In de-cember 2014, the Parliament declared 16 March to be the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, remembering that in 1848 it was adopted as part of the laws of April. It's an article of the law. The decades-long struggle of the Hungarian order reached its destination, as they have been trying for a long time to use the Hungarian tricolor instead of the imperial two-headed eagle flag and yellow-black colors. During the Reform Age, the Hungarian flag has appeared more and more at meetings, festive parades or other social events of various civil organizations, civil guards, casinos. At the same time, it became an indispensable element of parliamentary elections at the time when Hungarian colours and coat of arms were officially published only by mistake. The national-colored flag expressed the need for Hungarian independence and independence, but also for social progress. It is no wonder that in the revolutionary months of March 1848 the red-white-green flag forests rose spontaneously in almost the entire country and demanded the replacement of imperial badges. Today's celebrated law symbolically restored the nation's long-awaited and hopedful right of independence and freedom. As short as the fighting period of 1848-1849 was, the Hungarian three-colored flag was forever united not only with the memory of self-sacrifice heroes, but also with the ideal of state independence and freedom of the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, This year we remember the anniversary of several historical events that fundamentally determine our fate. In 1990, 30 years ago, the first freely elected Parliament met, and many laws made the break-up with the communist past and the creation of a democratic Hungary irreversible. They also realized that not only is the radical transformation of the legal system enough to bring about the change of system, but also the world of symbols needs to be renewed. XLIV adopted on 3 July 1990. Law closed a long social debate and made the crowned coat of arms a national symbol of Hungary, which has been one of the most important symbols of the Hungarian state and the nation for 30 years now. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also this year that we commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, which dismembers the territory of Hungary and puts a third of the Hungarian nation under the jurisdiction of foreign states. The name of the commemorative year also refers to the commemorative year of national solidarity, which is the most important message of our national flag: wherever our country is scattered or torn, our fate is common, we belong together and we are one. With the lines of János Arany, I close my words: "Don't leave the flag, don't leave the flag!" / If we are eluded by the thunderstorm of time: / There will be no more Hungarians of God. Thank you for your kind attention. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda today, from 12:15 to 13:45 a.m. for questions, and from 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-03-16-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because, at the end of last week, the government decided to declare an emergency, and since 1990 there has been no precedent in the history of Hungarian democracy. The reason for this is that we are facing an extraordinary situation throughout the world, including in Hungary. We're dealing with an invisible and unknown enemy. The Chinese coronal virus is widespread worldwide, and we must consider today's situation as a pandemic. It is a challenge for all mankind to face an unknown virus. It is also important to know that this epidemic is not only caused by an unknown virus, but that the Chinese corona virus epidemic is spreading much faster in the face of known epidemics. Since there is no antidote, there is no vaccine against it, it has not been stopped anywhere. 37 large world pharmaceutical companies are working to develop the required vaccine so far without success. In addition, if it is developed, by the time it can be placed on the market, it will be long, long months. These researches, which take place all over the world, are monitored and, where possible, connected by our working group of Hungarian virologists. Dear House, As far as we know, the virus has entered Hungary from Iran, Italy and Israel. All of this means that an epidemic broke out in China, that is to say, an epidemic on the other side of the world, appeared within a few weeks in Europe and thus in our country. We don't have a vaccine, we don't have a global solution. Therefore, each country will develop its own defence strategy. This is not unknown to us, and this has been the case in times of previous crises, whether it is an economic crisis, a flood situation or an immigration crisis, we still had to develop the national crisis plans that we could use for ourselves. And until the vaccine is discovered, it will remain so. Of course, we consult everyone in the defence, above all our neighbours, we are in direct contact with all the European Union countries, but we Hungarians have to make responsible decisions, we cannot expect others to make decisions, and we cannot transfer the responsibility for them to anyone else. [[11.20]] Cooperation with Austria is particularly important, because Austria is also neighbouring Italy, so we are trying to put Austrian measures into Hungarian practice as quickly as possible, which I will say a few words about. Ladies and Gentlemen, We've been in a difficult situation many times in the last 10 years. We've learned that no matter how much danger we're in, our best chance is if we work together, that's what we have to do now. I call on everyone in this situation to take the path of joint action and national cooperation. We need the widest possible national cooperation. What's to be expected? We know that dealing with a coronal virus epidemic will be a lengthy and difficult process and will require adaptation from everyone. Life will not be what we're used to in the coming months. The most important will continue to be the work of health workers and law enforcement workers in the coming months, so I would like to thank the health and law enforcement workers for the hard work they have done in recent years. Not only have they carried more burdens than anyone else, this will be the case in the coming weeks and even in the long and long months, so I ask everyone, not just you, but people in general, to help their work, to ease their burdens, and to support them. I would like to thank the Hungarian people in general, because I see that they have received the extraordinary situation with proper discipline. Thank you for accepting the unusual restrictions that will come from this many more - thank you for complying with the rules and thank you for accepting the recommendations of the authorities, the number of which will also multiply. This is our most important reserve of power, I mean, unity and discipline are our most important reserves of power, let's take it and use it. Dear House, As we know today, the spread of the coronal virus epidemic can be divided into three stages: there are individual diseases, followed by group diseases and then mass disease. Hungary has been in the first stage so far, but in the next few days we will be moving to the period of group illness. We see that until there is a vaccine, we have only one chance of reducing the spread of the virus in all countries of the world, including Hungary. What we can undertake today is to reduce the rate of spread of the virus, so the number of social encounters, as experts say, must be reduced by the number of contacts. I will give you a brief account of the decisions we have taken so far, all in the past: we have declared an extraordinary legal order and an emergency throughout the country. We have imposed a ban on entry from Italy, China, South Korea, Israel for non-Hungarian citizens. Hungarian citizens from these countries can enter Hungary, as this is their home country, but they must proceed to immediate official quarantine. This official decision provides that a person must not leave his/her place of residence for two weeks. A false statement, and a violation of the obligation to have a quarantine decision, is a sanction. We have prohibited indoor events of more than 100 people and outdoor events of more than 500 people. Exit documents shall not be renewed until such time as the emergency exists. An institutional visit ban has been put in place at universities in Hungary. From now on, university education can only take the form of distance learning. We forbid foreign school trips, we hope to introduce students' two-week summer language studies for one year, but only one year has been postponed. Public education has changed completely to distance education. We decided to set up an epidemic hospital built from a container, which was started this morning and at dawn. After that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, following the meeting of the operational tribe this morning, we have taken further decisions. These are the following: Hungary's borders are closed before passenger traffic, international discussions are already taking place. This means that only Hungarian citizens can enter Hungary in the future. From midnight today, events will be banned in general, sports events at most, if the organizers undertake, can take place behind closed gates, but it is best not to. Entertainments, cinemas are closed, cultural institutions are banned from visiting. Restaurants, cafés and shops can only be open for 15 hours, except food shops, pharmacy and drugstores. We recommend that all meetings other than family events be postponed. And to our elderly fellow citizens, our parents and grandparents, we tell them that they are particularly at risk of the epidemic, so we ask them to be extremely careful. This virus is particularly dangerous to them. I see that the government cannot forbid people over the age of 70 from leaving their apartments, I think, but I can definitely ask them, if we can't forbid them, I don't know, not to leave their apartments. Not because they're infecting others, but because they're hurting them, they're in danger. Today, local governments are obliged to organise and provide care for elderly people who remain in their homes. I ask the municipalities to use their power primarily to help the elderly. Dear House, So far, the measures. I would now also like to say a few words about the economic consequences. The coronal virus epidemic is threatening human life in the first place, but it is already apparent that the pandemic has serious economic consequences. The whole economy is talking about the Hungarian economy - the whole Hungarian economy is in trouble, but not at the same time. There are sectors of the economy, such as tourism, catering and services, where trouble has already knocked on the door. [[11.30]] It is now Minister Andrea Mager's job to consult representatives of sectors already in trouble, collect proposals and requests, and take rapid measures to help them in the next few days. As Hungarian people's jobs are threatened in the first place, we will focus on protecting jobs in the coming weeks. Hungary is under threat from a very serious wave of unemployment. I ask all employers and all workers to make personal efforts to keep their jobs. The economic consequences of the coronal virus epidemic will include budgetary and economic plans, i.e. the central government budget and economic plans, and budgets should be redesigned at all levels. The task of coordinating this work is Minister Mihály Varga. The redesigning points of institutional and municipal budgets will be provided within days, and the development of measures to help the Hungarian economy is ongoing. I would also like to inform you that I have contacted the President of the National Bank of Hungary, because, like other European countries, we will need monetary instruments in Hungary in addition to budgetary instruments to address the crisis. That's where we are now, March 16th. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-2	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, As the Prime Minister's speech did not exceed 20 minutes, they have a five-minute time frame for speaking by group of Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the provisions of the House Rule, the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda should only be addressed by factions leaders and sub-group leaders. I give the floor to the Head of the Szabó Timea Group, the Dialogue Group.
u2020-03-16-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your information, Prime Minister, but this is a bit slim. Let me begin by thanking everyone, including the government, who is involved in the work of trying to reduce the spread of the epidemic as far as possible and to help those in distress, medical workers, BKV workers, law enforcement workers. Thank you in particular for the work of the operational tribe and for the patience of Tibor Lakatos. On the other hand, we cannot thank Zoltán Kovács for his arrogance yesterday. I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that you are pouring oil on the fire in such an arrogant way that it does not calm the moods down, but just how it makes the whole situation worse. It's not the job of a spokesman, it's the job of answering all the questions. Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to ask you this. There was no mention of any future transfers, but we have read that the government has already transferred HUF 18,5 billion from the force majeure fund or from the extraordinary fund. From this, we saw that HUF 8.5 billion went to waste management, the Opera House Eiffel Workshop renovated HUF 4.5 billion, and we heard that from the HUF 18.5 billion separation. We would like to find out when it is expected that more is being transferred by the government to help health care. We can clearly see that there is no place where health workers do not complain that there is no adequate protective equipment, it is enough to mention St. Imre or St. John's Hospital. I cannot stress that this is not an opposition, and I do not know what it is, but it is in the common interest of all of us that these workers receive adequate protection. If a government spokesperson stands up and says we're lying because they get it, it won't help the situation. What's gonna help us is if we really get the protective equipment for these health workers. I would like to point out the problem that, unfortunately, many people do not respect voluntary quarantine, especially those who are now returning home. We would like to ask the government to do something about this. It's not our job, I don't know what to do in this, how to check it, but a lot of people are still coming home from Austria, Italy, who don't respect it. It's a potential threat. We would also like to ask the government that those who are now losing their jobs, Prime Minister, have said that employers and workers should make a personal effort to keep their jobs. I don't know what that means. How should a personal effort be made if an employer takes the job and fires the workers, knowing that he will be bankrupt? What does an employee need to know in this case, what rights do they have? Unfortunately, very conflicting information is coming to light. We would like to ask the government to prepare themselves now to support unemployment. On behalf of the Dialogue, I would like to ask that we raise the payment of the unemployment allowance from three months to nine months, because this is going to be a very serious situation. Raise the government's HUF 22 800 amount of income replacement support, as well as the public wage. In particular, we would like to ask the government to pay special attention to parents raising their children alone. We continue to ask, on behalf of the Dialogue, for a family replacement increase to be carried out here. We are convinced that no other single or universal support will be able to help, especially these parents. A lot of single mothers are gonna get in trouble. In the same way, we would like to ask the government to help us suspend the loan repayments for the next few months, for which this epidemic lasts; for whom there is a problem of wage payments at work, parents will not be able to pay. I'm not even sure they'll be able to pay the rent, but I'm sure they won't be able to pay the loan. Let's not let more people get out on the street because of this virus. Welcome to the limited opening hours of shops, that's very right. We would also like to ask that, if the Hungarian Medical Chamber or the parties propose something similar, the answer should not be that we are political, especially if the government does so the next day, but that we should be more understanding about this matter. Last but not least, I've deliberately put us in the last row, but we can potentially bring viruses home to our own family, to our own environment. I suggested last week that the Parliament move to the Upper House Hall, where there are 400 chairs, so that the National Assembly can meet with at least one seat, so we will take security steps to prevent at least spreading the virus. Thank you.
u2020-03-16-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to respond on three points to the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda. The first is that the safety of Hungarian people, the health of Hungarian people, and the guarantee of the livelihood of Hungarian people are the most important and priority for us, the MSZP and opposition politicians. The second is that in dealing with this situation, taking into account the government's policy over the past ten years, and taking into account the centralization process that you have carried out in both health and education, law enforcement bodies, the local government sector and I could tell you - all decisions in dealing with this epidemic can be taken by the government, and therefore all responsibility in managing this epidemic is with the Government of Hungary, and all responsibility is with you, Prime Minister. The third point is that the MSZP will support all measures that serve the objectives set out in point 1, but this does not mean that the opposition, assessing its own responsibility, would go without saying a word. We cannot go without saying, after last night's events, that, in fact, a black belt arrogance master was directed to the press conference following the meeting of the operational tribe, which, rather than strengthening trust, weakened trust. I ask, Prime Minister, that, in addition to honesty, open speech and real measures in communication, the enemy search for which Zoltán Kovács has been trained should not be the primary priority, but the protection of the Hungarian people. We cannot go without saying that if the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which is the professional organization of doctors, makes a lot of proposals, the government takes it as a political attack. I would also like to highlight what the Prime Minister has not mentioned, a proposal on the number of tests, the number of protective equipment and the preparation of health institutions. I'd like you to address this in your counter-answer. [[11.40]] We cannot go without saying that, given the educational system, for two years Judit Czunyiné Bertalan is the government commissioner responsible for digital content [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He received a salary of HUF 26 million for this task, and as a parent, I know it, and all of us who are here and we are parents, we know what e-mails the schools send, what different emails they send about organizing education. We cannot go without saying that we are opening a 30 billion HUF credit line for Moldavia; we are admiring the Puskás Stadium, which will be empty for months, for HUF 200 billion; we are looking at the fact that from the 18 billion HUF transfer to health care; we cannot go without saying anything about it, because, as I said most importantly, the most important thing for us is the safety of Hungarian people, the protection of Hungarian people. Therefore, we are presenting a five-point defence package to the Parliament today, and I will describe this in detail in my speech before the agenda. I ask that when the action plans are drawn up, these be taken into account. What happens to workers who are now being sent on unpaid leave? A wage guarantee fund should be established and a programme launched. What happens to the parents staying home? It's time to think about raising the family allowance. It should be borne in mind that larger companies, multinationals, which have made several thousand billion forints profit from this country over the past period at a profit tax of 9%, should be banned. I agree with Szabó Timea on unemployment benefits not only to suspend credit payments, but also to suspend implementations. And while we are talking about the elderly, pensioners, they should not delay the payment of the pension premium, but move it forward, because food prices are rising in an extraordinary way, and we need a real increase in pensions. This defence package may help the government make decisions, but I would like to stress once again that the responsibility lies with the government and with you, Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-6	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Peter James, leader of the group, Jobbik Group.
u2020-03-16-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, When you get sick, you basically test your immune system. In this situation, not one person, but one country's immune system is being tested. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: All States!]] And we see that we're not doing well, we're not. Not because in the last ten years, instead of dealing with health care, education, or wages, they were essentially dealing with propaganda, serializing, brizzled, and now the hard reality that none of us have expected has come true, and they have nothing to do with it. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] they can't reshape into a crisis mode. On Saturday, the Prime Minister decreed that it would be time to spend more than HUF 7 billion on renovating the Opera House or renovating churches. Is this really the time, Prime Minister? [[Viktor Orbán: Yes!]] Because we don't think so. I'm worried. I am concerned when I see such spending; I am concerned when Minister Kásler says that there is no need to filter people in Hungary because it does not make sense; I am concerned when, Prime Minister, you will go to Moldova the day after the announcement of the emergency, to support the people there by HUF 30 billion, while they are planning to fight the Crown Virus for HUF 8 billion, 8 billion! We give others 30 billion, while health workers do not have protective equipment, general practitioners complain that they do not get proper masks, and there are even 500 places where there are no masks and no general practitioners. Prime Minister, in Serbia health workers will be repaid by raising wages and thanking them by raising their wages for the hard work. When will this happen here, Prime Minister? You say that if a doctor complains, he must be created; the EMMI has issued a statement that it is his job to guarantee the health and safety of himself and his patient. But what do you have to do, Prime Minister? What's the government got to do? I'll tell you what. As a first step, we should call Minister Kásler back now because he is not fit for the task. All existing protective equipment should then be provided immediately to health workers. We welcome you, we welcome you for taking another piece of advice and, in essence, by not allowing foreign citizens to enter Hungary, the borderlock on public health, which we also advocate, will be implemented. But it is time, Prime Minister, that we really take it seriously and take it seriously to mitigate the negative economic effects of the virus. And here we have to argue with you again, because President Matolcsy presented his proposal last week, which he said we should solve the problem, our financial problems, so that the population can take on twice as much credit as it used to be amazing! So, in the middle of a pandemic, the Hungarian people must be indebted? We don't think that's true. This isn't the right road. It is necessary to set up a job security fund, Prime Minister, which is precisely about guaranteeing the payment of workers who are forced to leave in an emergency situation caused by the virus, either because they are closing schools or because they are going into quarantine; therefore, wages must be guaranteed. Not least, it is also necessary to guarantee the payment of wages for employees in the public sector, since on Friday morning you set out that you are not far from sending public employees on unpaid leave; this is not a proper and viable route. We must also think of our fellow countrymen, Prime Minister, who must face not only the virus, but also their house repayments. In order to prevent a housing crisis, a moratorium on credit should be introduced immediately and at least for the duration of the emergency, which should be extended to include a moratorium on the payment of an account in the case of families in distress, so that these families should also be temporarily exempted from the burden of payment. Last but not least, it is time for the government to introduce official pricing, maximizing prices for products that can reduce the rate of spread of the virus, and I am thinking of hand sanitizer. Prime Minister, obviously the costs will be substantial and possible, and we do not know that today, because the extent of the epidemic is still difficult to predict today. Three plus one foot should be put on the financial burden. The costs will have to be borne by the state, by multinational companies, by the oligarchs, who have become rich in recent years, thanks to you - and they will also have to take a little diet - and there is an extra foot, because the European Union has also put in place a 100 billion-dollar grant, an aid that is now being implemented by the government, for example, by Jobbik. We will be very careful how this is going to happen. [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties.]] Prime Minister! I want to make it clear that Jobbik supports the government in everything. [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] supports all those involved in the defence to ensure the security of the country. But we should never be expected to remain silent when you are silent when you are idle, Prime Minister, when you hesitate, because what is happening in Hungary is not a communication trick at the Soros plan level, but it must also be handled in the flesh and blood reality. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-8	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, Deputy Head of the Group [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Democratic Coalition. Here you go. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-9	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to show some seriousness on this subject, however difficult it may be for you. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] So, Prime Minister, the country is facing a challenge in which, obviously, we can only succeed together, and only together can we successfully protect the Hungarian people. Therefore, for the sake of a lesson, I say that we should not make the same mistakes that, at the first stage of the epidemic, at the time of the crisis, the government failed to prove its suitability. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] has not been able to prevent the spread of the epidemic in Hungary [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Which government could prevent it?!]] He wasn't able to do it properly... [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] ... provide appropriate communication and information to the Hungarian people. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame on you!]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] So, Prime Minister, the country is facing a challenge in which, obviously, we can only succeed together, and only together can we successfully protect the Hungarian people. Therefore, for the sake of a lesson, I say that we should not make the same mistakes that, at the first stage of the epidemic, at the time of the crisis, the government failed to prove its suitability. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] has not been able to prevent the epidemic from spreading in Hungary (Moraj and interventions from the ranks of the governing parties). Dr. Bence Rétvári: Which government could prevent it? ! He wasn't able to do the right thing... (Development and interruptions from the ranks of the governing parties. )... provide appropriate communication and information to the Hungarian people. (Noise. The president's ringing the bell. ) Unfortunately (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Shame on you!) He reacted too slowly and too poorly in this situation. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties.)Remember that he is responsible as a opposition party (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) before and now we do not consider it our task to criticize the government in this situation. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I want to make suggestions. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Gyurcsány!]] You recall that we have made 38 proposals so far in order to help the government's work, of which more than half a dozen have been taken, by the way, we would be happy to do so, but there are few. [[Complaining from the ranks of the governing parties: Chief of Staff!]] Mr. Prime Minister, It is clear that the Crown Virus is now in the country; unfortunately, you have very little information about who has become ill and why. [[László Szászfalvi: None of your business!]] But it seems that the virus has appeared in many places today. Therefore, the government has four main tasks today. The first is to narrow the possibilities of social contact as much as possible and to close as possible. The measures announced today by the Prime Minister are a step forward, but I fear that even this will not be enough. Secondly, it is obvious that ostrich policy must be put to an end when the government does not carry out a sufficient number of tests. [[11.50]] We know that today, even people who have proven to be in contact with people who have caught the coronal virus are not automatically tested. International experience shows, and historical experience shows, that the more widely and the sooner testing is started, the more effective it is to combat the epidemic. The best example of this is the case of South Korea during the current epidemic, where the number of diseases was relatively low compared to the outbreak conditions, and the number of patients who died was very low in international comparison. We therefore ask that these tests be carried out much more widely than before, to filter out those who may be carriers of viruses, in order to be able to act effectively for their health and, of course, for the protection of the rest of society. The protection of healthcare workers, doctors and nurses is particularly important in this context. Care must be taken to protect them: today, in many hospitals, patients who are suspected of being treated without protective equipment are also treated without the result of testing. This is obviously an unnecessary, serious risk. Thirdly, many families today fear not only the coronal virus but also fear what will happen to them if they lose their job, what will happen to them if they cannot enter their workplace, because they look after their children at home or what will happen to them when they are quarantined. Therefore, the government must bear a greater burden in the case of those who are out of work with direct assistance, including by speeding up sickness or other income to help people in this way in distress, and also by helping employers to support teleworking, part-time work or even absence by tax reduction, reduction in contributions and other means. Finally, for the fourth time, we see that there is a problem in the economy, and we agree on that, but while the big business sector is waiting for the government to come up with something, small companies are not free to wait. It would be important for the government to immediately take measures that guarantee security for these companies and allow them not to have the need to do work, even at risk to their health. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-10	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group.
u2020-03-16-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to begin by thanking everyone who is working today to protect the safety and health of Hungarian people: health workers, law enforcement workers and, of course, everyone, the members of the operational tribe, for the hard work they are doing. These people are working beyond strength to save all of us, the whole nation, this is extremely important to start with. Thank you, Prime Minister, for this information, and I will agree with many things, and I will try to respond constructively to your speech before the agenda. I agree, and my fellow Members have also confirmed that we will be able to manage this crisis successfully with a very broad national cohesion, with very broad national cooperation. I think it is clear, Mr Bertalan Tóth, that this government has a high responsibility. The government has all the means to control the country. It is the government's fundamental and high priority responsibility to organise, plan and control the country's defence. At the same time, I am convinced that opposition parties, opposition politicians, have a very serious responsibility. It is our duty to engage constructively in this work and to make proposals that really move this matter forward. At the same time, Prime Minister, I believe that in this cooperation, the government has a prominent role and responsibility in shaping this. And here is a zero point, and this has already been mentioned by my fellow Members: communication. Prime Minister, what we saw yesterday from Zoltán Kovács was outrageous. What I am asking you, Prime Minister, is that if you are serious about this national cooperation and I sincerely hope that you mean it, then stop this stupid political propaganda. I ask Prime Minister to ensure that, in this emergency, in this crisis, public service information is indeed public service information and people like Zoltán Kovács are not allowed there. At the press conference, people who will be able to give the right answers with honor and integrity will not want to make a policy out of such a situation. I think that's step zero. In addition, we agree with the Government that the most important thing is the preservation of human life, the protection of the lives of Hungarian people, and in this respect we are very happy to welcome the government's actions that have now been announced. We are pleased that the government has changed its previous decision and closed public education institutions from this week on, it was an important decision. And we are also glad that the clubs and other institutions are closed; obviously, the opening of a 99-person movie theater carries the same dangers. And we are very pleased that the government is closing the borders in this way; we all regard them as measures that we consider to be extremely important and joyful, which we can support. We think that there is no strict measure that cannot be taken now and is not worth taking. I think that this is a way of learning from countries, say Western European countries, who are in a much worse situation than we are, and we have only a few days or even a few weeks' benefits, so let's see what happens there, how the virus unfolds, and learn from it anyway. The Prime Minister mentioned the responsibility of the municipalities. I would also like to send you a specific message, a request for help. I was approached by a lot of mayors by the fact that, in fact, in small settlements, local governments have a top priority, either through the village care system, to help the elderly or to do shopping, but at the same time they do not have local governments, and village managers do not have protective equipment. It is of the utmost importance that these protective equipment, as well as health care workers and law enforcement workers, be provided with the staff of the village care services. Similarly, priority safety should be provided for public transport workers. In this way, protective equipment must also be provided. I am very pleased, Prime Minister, that you have said that very serious budget cuts can be expected. As a first step, I think that, in addition to expressing our thanks to healthcare workers, this should also be done in such a way that an immediate 30 percent increase should now be applied to healthcare workers. In the case of social workers, we consider a 50% wage increase to be extremely important. We also consider it an immediate measure for the Hungarian government to set up a government-funded, government-funded service for the elderly. We consider it important, and my fellow Members have already spoken about it, so that there is an extended job search support available. Support for rent is also considered to be an extremely important and high priority. Similarly, we recommend the introduction of a so - called absence fee for those who are now supervising their children at home. And indeed, this has been said by my fellow Members: immediate emergency aid must be given to small and medium-sized enterprises. In order not to talk in the air, in order for the government to plan this fiscal adjustment, we will also put a detailed proposal on the government's table: we have found HUF 600 billion in the budget in order to take these immediate and extremely important measures. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, KDNP Group.
u2020-03-16-13	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the previous speeches, there was a sense of shared political responsibility here and there, and it feels good for us. However, the representation of party political considerations has continued to appear, which is not the case here. And let me say one sentence to the criticism of government communication. My fellow Members have forgotten the one half sentence that there is no room for provocation now. [[Szabó Timea: No, no, no! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] There are many ways we can relate to this epidemic, this situation. I would now say the Christian Democratic attitude, which is based on two pillars, because we generally try to refrain from unilateral opinions and try to present several sides of the coin. On the one hand, avoiding unnecessary risks is an important aspect, but on the other hand, do not be afraid. The thought of what I was thinking at the time of II. At the beginning of the regime change, Pope John Paul mentioned much to those who were the bravest in the early days of the regime change. Well, there is one such situation now, when doctors need courage, especially, but let us say that Members too, because there is an emergency with the patient and there is an emergency in Parliament in some respects. [[12.00]] We couldn't think of a better focal point than this, where we could sit close together and infect each other. It is not because of us, nor because of the Members of the vulnerable age, but in the interests of the people to which they are going, because they are spreading the country around. But here's the thing. Don't be afraid. I think that, just as doctors are not afraid to do their job, we should not be afraid of it. Of course, I would add that this is necessary in the case of important decisions. I see two of these: the extension of the emergency situation, the granting of permission beyond 15 days, and the question of budgets. There are a lot of nice proposals that can be postponed. One more thought about school closures. How did we approach that question? From the beginning, we said we needed it. It is true that professional opinions differ, that children are less at risk, it is true that they are uncertain that they are infected in cases where symptoms do not appear, this is all true, and therefore perhaps there was a reason to continue teaching. But why did we support him? Because, in our opinion, the child's number one educator is the parent. And the parent gives the school an assignment to raise and educate the child. And if the parental society asks that this should not happen now, then we have nothing to do, we need to think about distance learning, and distance learning, according to the government's good decision, gives us an opportunity to complete the academic year, especially for those preparing for graduation. Let me also welcome the measures that will be taken in the area of border closure, event bans and job protection. Let me mention one more question: the countryside has already been mentioned. Just yesterday, I spoke to an event planner who called me to the country, and we had the idea to postpone it. He justified this by not bringing the infection out of the city to the countryside. Of course, that is not the point of this issue, but it is worth considering how we can help families in particularly disadvantaged areas who cannot shop in malls or in different major shops, but also help local care. This was also a request from the countryside. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-16-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group of Fidesz. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-03-16-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to begin my speech by thanking all those working in health care and law enforcement, those who struggle with everyday strength and effort for the lives of our fellow countrymen, and thanking the operational tribe and the Hungarian government for their actions. I do this by being aware that the hard part is yet to come, but the measures listed by the Prime Minister will help us to minimise the damage to Hungary, and we are primarily thinking about human life here, but, as the Prime Minister has said in his speech, also about the economic difficulties that lie ahead of us. We welcome the measures that the Government has taken or intends to take in the days, including close cooperation and information from Austria. I would like to note here that the country has indeed been in a state that has not been seen since the change of regime, and I would also say that we are facing an unprecedented challenge. This also requires an unprecedented attitude from the Parliament. Therefore, on the one hand, I would like to thank the parliamentary parties for the fact that, on two occasions last week, we held a seven-party group leader or deputy group leader meeting, the atmosphere of which was fundamentally constructive. I would also like to thank the Government for giving us the opportunity for the future, for the weeks ahead, for months, because this confirms the fact that we all agree that we now need to work together. There is a need not only for the government and the Parliament, but also for the political forces to join forces. After all, it is easy to see that you are the best at getting your sympathizers to comply with the rules, we are the best at getting our own sympathizers to do so, and it is in our common interest and our shared responsibility to implement the government's actions with all Hungarians. In light of this, I do not want to talk about it for a long time, because it is as I say, I am serious about the need for cooperation. I wouldn't react for a long time, but I would note that it was hard to see that I still didn't miss out, for example, on the speeches of my fellow leader James about personalities, weight loss, about this and that. This is not the place, Congressman. I don't know if you've noticed what's happening in this country. This doesn't belong here right now. Just as there is no place for us to make criticisms that are basically classified as sneaky. So as the ban on arrogance is alive, I agree with that, so is sneakyness. There's no way of sneaking around right now. So I would like to ask that moderation is indeed, if it is necessary to interpret it as a secretary of state, then we interpret it as I agree, but in political communication it is also a provocation, and I have also brought the media staff here, and moderation is also mandatory for them. Thus, the pissing of each other on a political basis, its provocation, the unjustified, excessive pissing is not allowed; the response to it must, as appropriate, be calm and the situation must be appropriate. We will inform the public about the seven-party negotiations. At the same time, I noticed one thing, and it appeared less in the speeches than in the previous communications. Competition between countries, please ignore, there will be no winner at the end, so they will not declare a winner. We have one task to keep most of Hungary's citizens away from this and to protect it. Obviously, all Western and foreign examples, or those who are ahead of us in the fight against the disease in time, need attention, but I ask that this type of competition be ignored by the policy. Finally, allow me a short thought, which I have already mentioned, but I would like to say that in the days ahead, much depends not only on days, weeks, but also on the fact that in months, we hope that we do not follow the rules and the instructions of the authorities. The opposition parties will also play a huge role here, including the government and everyone. We must have one common goal. This is not the time for power, this is not the time for political debate. There is only one goal to meet, and that is to protect the health of Hungarian citizens. This way, everyone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-16-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in return. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-16-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make some 20 comments on what has been said. Firstly, I would like to thank you for all the positive comments; secondly, I would like to express my disappointment that there are still some people who do not understand the situation and are unable to rise above their party policy aspects. In particular, I must categorize the nonsense that the government in Hungary would be responsible for not preventing the virus from breaking into Hungary. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] So let's stop this nonsense because on this basis you can't cooperate and you can't work together! As far as resources for health protection are concerned, there must be some misunderstanding. Please read again the provisions on this: there is an unlimited budgetary framework open from above. [[12.10]] So it is not necessary for me to name each item how much money is needed for the defence, but I have opened a budget framework, an open framework from above, and what is necessary for the defence, all resources are available and provided. I have said this to the public, and I repeat it now: all the budgetary resources needed for defence are not only available but available quickly and immediately. As far as protective equipment for defence workers is concerned, they have been put first, especially because 4 percent of healthcare workers in China and 10 percent in Italy have been infected. So we must be prepared to do this to some extent here; if they fall out of care, their work must be done with someone else. It is therefore in our primary interest to ensure that protective equipment is provided primarily to health care workers. This morning I also ordered that I didn't say this before, that we also classified health care workers as health workers, which means that, like all other health workers in the country, they can't leave the country, they can be called in and they can be ordered. We've already taken this step with the police, so the officers are now on duty. We have extended this to health care today. On the question of how workers can do to preserve their jobs, I would like to say that they should agree with their employers as soon as possible on what changes they can accept. So I ask all, I repeat, all of Hungary's employers and employees to make personal efforts, so that they can keep their jobs, settle down, just as in such cases it has happened elsewhere and in the past in Hungary. It will not be an extraordinary situation for us if unemployment starts to rise rapidly, as in 2010, I recall that there was 12 percent unemployment in Hungary and today less than 3 percent unemployment. But the reason is that we have to go in exactly the opposite direction as you propose. I don't want to open a debate here, because we've heard that it's my responsibility, maybe it's the virus's, but I don't want to have any economic policy debates with you when you put all your responsibilities on my shoulders. I would just like to point out that the logic of our job protection action plan is exactly the opposite of what you have said here. So, in our vision, we need to take measures to help people stay at work. We must support the employer's ability to keep his employee. So help must be provided in order not to fall out of work. So the goal is not to replace their falling income, but to take measures to stay inside. I would like to point out that this is how we reduced the 12 percent unemployment rate to 3 percent in Hungary, because we announced an action plan for the protection of jobs here and in 2010, perhaps someone still remembers this, which has helped employers to make a deal with employees and keep people working. By the way, the legislation in Germany, the Kurzarbeit system, which is being introduced right now, is based precisely on the same logic. So let us not think about how to make up for those who fall out of work, but let us first think that no one should fall out of work. I'm working on getting everybody a job. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] Admittedly, a situation can arise, and it is certain that a parent cannot keep his child under supervision. I would like to point out that we have not closed the schools, but have announced a new course, a school order, and a schedule of procedures so that we can be at your disposal in such cases. That's why the principals had to go to all schools this morning without exception, and they had to arrange for a small group of parents who couldn't put their children in. So we're still taking care of children in schools. I will not now open a debate on centralization if my fellow Member, Mr Tóth, allows it, but I do not see it as a problem, but rather as a fortunate thing, that at this moment the health and education systems are also centralized in Hungary, because I think we will deal with the crisis more easily than if it were decentralised. It is no coincidence that the first step in every crisis management in the world is to increase the effectiveness of central government by means of centralization. We have this at our disposal. It's all the responsibility of the government, it's all right; we won't leave the virus out of this, that's my request. As far as the Hungarian Medical Chamber is concerned, we know their proposals, we accept them, and what we can accomplish from them is being implemented. I would also like to thank Mrs Czunyi, because we are now moving to digital education, although we planned this for a year later, so there will be bumps, but we can switch to this. This is possible because for two years our fellow Member has made excellent preparations for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] As for the destruction of health care after 2010, which is a constantly recurring political issue, I would just like to say that it is a strange form of disintegration if we spend 770 billion forints more on health every year than in the previous period. So I underline and repeat: every year we spend 770 billion forints more on health than ever before in previous governments. I cannot accept the Jobbik's proposal to stop the ongoing investments. We had to give money for a number of ongoing investments to keep them going. I want the reverse. I don't want restraint. This crisis cannot be dealt with by austerity. I understand that you have all proposed restrictions, so whoever has spoken here has all proposed austerity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] For if we do not keep people at work, but pay their income instead of employers, it will lead to austerity at the end. It's good that everyone knows that. What I'm proposing is not this. There will be no cuts, there will be growth support. So we want to do exactly the opposite. We will stimulate, grow, support investments, keep people at work, and not squeeze. We can't accept that. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] Therefore, for every investment that is ongoing and requires additional budgetary resources, we will also provide it in the next period. I think we should be glad that Professor Kásler is sitting in the seat of the Minister of Health, because we are dealing with an Institute Director who knows exactly how things happen in a hospital, and what regulations and measures are needed to ensure that things happen in hospitals in an acceptable way. As for EU money, I have heard about it. My hope is that they won't take it from us, they'll give it to us, but we don't know for sure yet. In any case, it does not seem to be good news that financial flows are being made at the expense of the Cohesion Fund; they may be for our benefit, but definitely at the expense of the Fund. So we're gonna have to be careful. Let's measure more, let's test more, we'll do this. I don't want to give a virological lecture here, I just want to say that the nature of the virus is such that we can't filter it, so it's not possible to filter it out. In one case, we have certain knowledge of infection after a screening test: if that particular antibody has already appeared in the body. As long as it doesn't show up, the security of measurement is somewhere between 50 and 70 percent. So we may be testing someone, it doesn't show anything, but it's already infected, tomorrow we do it, we still don't, on the third day again, and it shows up there. So what we can do with testing is that whoever was already infected is already protected, because they have antibodies in their system, we can track their contacts, help us with that, so we measure them. But I'd like to put an end to the illusion that if we test people more often, we could prevent the disease. That's not true. The only thing we can register faster is what's already happened. This is very important. I therefore agree with the need to speed up the tests, but again, unfortunately, it does not result in reliability. That is why we use the expression that screening for this virus is not physically possible. So don't ask us to be screened because it can't be filtered because of the specific nature of the virus. We can test it, and to some extent we can detect advanced infection with these tests. But I don't think it's the Prime Minister's job. I ask you to address all such virological details to the Minister of Human Resources, who, as I said, is fortunately a hospital director. As far as communication is concerned, I would like to point out that the government's communication will continue to focus on people. Therefore, I would ask all of you not to provoke defense workers, including members of the government, openly or slylyly. Times are hard, they're much harder than they've ever been. We don't have much knowledge, but what we have is more of an alarm. [[12.20]] In Austria, for example, the rise from the 30 cases to the 500 cases occurred in eight days, and I understand they were already over 800 this morning. So as it spreads, its speed is not proportional, so it's not going to happen as it has been before, it's going to happen at an accelerated rate, so now the hard part is coming, the real load is coming, and we're going to have to put up with it. Now comes the hard times. I've seen some crises. What I can tell you is that it's understandable when people are nervous, maybe confused, but they're definitely insecure. On the part of the country's leaders, of course, with different responsibilities, as we have heard, because Members have different responsibilities than the government, but we are all, to some extent, the leaders of the country, and I know from experience that calmness, calmness and determination are needed. The bigger the trouble, the more calm, the more calm and the more firm. That's what I expect from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-18	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with speeches before the agenda. [[Several Members leave the room. Noise in the room.]] Before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Member of the Dialogue Group, spoke on the topic of current issues. Before I give the floor to the Member, I would ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber, to do so quietly. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-03-16-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic forces us to rethink the functioning of social and economic life from the foundations. What a slower crisis, although also very fast on the historical scale, has not been able to do so far, the climate and ecological crisis now seems to have reached it. It became real in a few days to completely rewrite our way of life as we know it, in order to adapt to the changed world. In such a case, political leadership must also change its thinking. Compared to this, as we have heard, Viktor Orbán still talks about growth. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Sit down!]] At the same time, the aim is to provide basic social services and basic economic functions. In the short term, it is self-evident what needs to be done, and much has already been said: indeed, to slow down the spread of the epidemic, because now those who gain time actually gain life. The delay increases the number of cases every day by 40 percent and the mortality rate is much higher. The capacity of the health care system must be increased, in which, my fellow opposition Members were right, the government's responsibility is enormous, as ten years of redevelopment of health will now avenge itself. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties.]] But you've got to look a little further ahead. What will be the economic and social impact of this epidemic in the coming years? How are we going to deal with the economic crisis that is coming? The Dialogue has been saying for years that economic policy is wrong; the Orbán-Varga-Matolcsy trio has achieved an economic growth that follows a distorted structure, overheated, short-term perspective and does not want to serve people, but corporate profits. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties.]] Thus, there was no future-proof, crisis-proof and just economy. László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office of Hungary, your former fellow Member, said that anti-cyclical economic policy is now needed, i.e. that state expenditure should be boosted in the downturn. Compared to this, the European Commission's recent country report says that the biggest problem in recent years has been that economic policy has been pro-cyclical, i.e. in the seven years of long years, all the resources have been spent on further heating growth, lining buddies, covering the economy, instead of pursuing the goals of creating a future economy, investing in people and raising reserves and reducing public debt. We, dialogueists, have said that during the seven long years, we must prepare for the seven narrow years. The government didn't listen to us, and here we are at the start of an economic crisis with a vulnerable economy and a completely insensitive government for human security and income security. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised government assistance to economic operators who suffered losses due to the Crown Virus last Tuesday. This is what he has been talking about, the economic protection action plan, the recovery packages, but he has not talked about the social protection action plan, while, if not at other times, we can now understand that the economy is not an end in itself, we must not serve the economy, but that the economy should provide its basic functions: meeting the needs of people and the production of people's income. Therefore, the Dialogue initiates that, in addition to the economic protection action plan, because it is also important to preserve jobs, but to create a social protection action plan, that for those who have already had difficulty living, or for those who are losing their jobs now, or who are losing their incomes at least, we can provide income security so that they can continue to bear their expenses in the next period. Of course, expenditure must also be reduced. We need to reduce on the government side and reduce on the household side, suspend payments and overhead costs, but the most important thing is that everyone has a stable, predictable income. This is the approach that the Dialogue has been representing for five years now with the promotion of basic income, and that is what we may have to create for everyone in a crisis greater than ever before. We need to create income security for those who lose their jobs; we need to create equal support for all children, because now personal income tax benefits are also linked to income from work for children. Let us make this available to everyone, if you will, by triple the family allowance or by introducing a basic income for children. Or, if you like, pay special attention to vulnerable social groups, single parents, large families, people with low pensions, those who do pre-carial work and have no permanent, reliable source of income; and to everyone who will suffer the greatest losses in this crisis. This Social Protection Action Plan is also a strong proposal from the Dialogue [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] submit it to the Parliament, and I hope you will support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-20	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-16-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to assure you that the government will take into account all social groups and all economic consequences when making the next decisions, but take into account that at this stage, the priority is the protection of human life, and then the necessary economic decisions. In the first place, I would like to say that it is a fundamental circumstance that we are dealing with a new type of virus that we do not know much about. Little by little more, but it's still not much. So we must settle for a long battle, one that has not been experienced in recent decades, not only in our countries, but also in other countries. We often talk about the fact that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, and this now has a new meaning. The government, doctors and authorities have a lot to do, a lot to do, but the success of defence depends just as much on all Hungarian citizens taking responsibility and following the rules. And now it's not something that affects others, and we can separate ourselves from each other. Everyone has to make decisions in their own lives, and these decisions have to point in the same direction: reduce the number of encounters and contacts. Now it's a difficult thing, we know it's a difficult decision, because you've created a social one, but if you can do that, you can reduce the pressure on the health system, so there's a lot riding on it. That is why it was decided that the events would be banned, which also applies to cinemas and cultural events. I'm glad you already consider it important to protect yourself from the virus, by the way. I'm just saying this because a few days ago, your party published an ad in social media about the 2022 electoral cooperation and lists. I'm glad you've changed that attitude. The truth is, they've had more suggestions in the last few days. They proposed a check at the airport, talked about border control, closure of educational institutions, and if I recall correctly, they even started a petition on the latter case. I would like to inform you that a decision has been taken to close the borders: only Hungarian citizens can enter the country, and they must also be quarantined. Education at universities. Visits to university institutions are prohibited, this means distance learning and the transition to a digital working order in public education. I would also like to emphasise here that this is not a pause, but a different way of teaching. [[12.30]] So, you have some suggestions that we can agree with, what's more, we've already made the necessary decisions. But there is one thing, honourable Member, that is that there is no room for it, and that is that they are declaring civil disobedience. You've done this in the last few days. Honourable Congressman, When authorities, doctors, decision makers are doing their best to reduce the negative consequences of the epidemic, how responsible do you think it is to declare civil disobedience? What will happen if you, at your invitation, do not comply with the instructions and requests of the authorities? Mr President, have the consequences been assessed? We are not living in the usual days of Hungarian politics. Right now, the provocations heated by the need for attention can have much more serious consequences. So I ask you, at least in these days, to put on the clothes of responsibility, and not out of a one-sided dislike for the government, to conduct your policies. This virus doesn't know any parties now, and it's completely indifferent to our internal political debates. Let's face it, we're talking about people's lives. We would like to wish you the wisdom of this. At times like this, you decide what's important to you. The only thing I can assure you is the protection of the country and human life for the government. If they get to you, too, if that's what you're saying, then I think we're gonna be rowing in the same boat. The decision is yours. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-22	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the context of the Crown Virus, I would also like to talk about the situation with regard to the Crown Virus. Allow me to present this with an incident in my constituency. I would like to point out that this speech before the agenda is not intended to be a fight for the party of the opposition in the classic sense, and I would ask my fellow Members not to take it that way. At the same time, I think that, during my speech, I will point out errors which, I think, are a very serious obstacle to the defence task, sometimes undermine public confidence, and the possible improvement of which can greatly contribute to defence and to the results achieved in defence. As many of you may know, a student at Toldy Ferenc High School, this was a first district high school where her mother got sick, showed symptoms of the coronal virus, but unfortunately, by the time the test was carried out, it was ten days. Until then, the health care system used it to ping-pong, where they sent it, where they sent it. I do not think that we should talk about personal responsibility here, but I am sure that we need to find a solution to this problem. Basically, after a ten - day ping-pong session, the presence of the coronal virus was diagnosed, and it was subsequently found that one of its children was infected with the virus. However, this points to a very serious problem, since the contact test and the quarantine post-contact test were not carried out. Or the quarantine was not done, so technically, when the contamination of family members, mother, and brother was diagnosed, the child was at school. We know exactly and this is what the Prime Minister said - that the characteristic of this virus is that it can spread without symptoms. So he's able to infect even when he's not showing symptoms. However, this pointed to a lot of problems. He pointed out the lack of contact testing and pointed out that, unfortunately, the information was not enough. I'm not saying this with intent to hurt you, I'm saying this because we need to change that, you and I together, it doesn't matter, just change. I think it's very talkative that when I found out about this case, I was on the phone, e-mailing the operative tribe to contact him, and it's been five days since then, but I didn't get an answer. On the phone, the school cannot provide any information to anyone, but at the same time we see the risk, because sick people were among healthy people. I think we can't afford that. Dear House, I think we should rethink the protocol that regulates contact tests. At the moment, only those in need of hospital care are considered sick by the health government. We know that you know that, and the doctors working in the operational tribe know that there are many more patients, and if we want to reduce the spread, then I think that the contact investigation and the measures on contact persons should be much wider. I think public confidence could be the engine of efficiency. On the other hand, we have found that Zoltán Kovács jumped arrogantly at journalists, and we have found that there has been no health care professional for four or five days at these press conferences that the operational tribe has held, and it is shocking to see Minister Kásler appear in public once. That is why I ask with great respect my fellow members of the Government to improve both their communication and the quality of information in order to restore public confidence. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-03-16-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-03-16-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we've seen today in the case of several faction leaders, including the LMP, that he made a different tone than the usual tone before Monday's agenda. I think we can all be happy about this, but most of all, people can be happy because they want to trust Parliament and trust their politicians. We're glad there were people who could jump this bar today. In the specific case raised by you, honourable Member, as soon as the school principal was officially aware of the case, he wrote an internal circular within the school, but he specifically wrote at the end of the circular that it was not for the Hungarian press, but for the school, for the students, teachers and parents of the school, to inform them calmly, calmly, about what had happened and what measures they had taken. In this he explained how the district office's medical services were contacted, how they immediately acted in the event of suspicion, and what measures were taken later. I believe that both the director and the district office's CDC specialists and medical examiners have done their job quickly to ensure that no student is in any danger on any teaching day and that the necessary measures were taken at that school that day. Later, shortly thereafter, the government also took a general measure to move from today to a digital working order, which, obviously, teachers continue to do their work in the context of a digital working schedule, only in a completely different way than before. You were talking about protocols, Your Honour. You know very well that most of these protocols are adopted by the Hungarian organisations, especially the NNK, the National People's Health Centre and the Chief Medical Officer, on the basis of WHO recommendations. It is also now known that the WHO, as the infection spreads from country to country, as the knowledge of certain stages of the epidemic is growing in isolation, then infections occur in focal points, and then in many cases a mass epidemic has occurred in countries where the infection has occurred in the past weeks and months - both the WHO itself is changing these protocols after some levels of knowledge, after more and more knowledge about the virus and the disease. [[12.40]] So, what is also in force in Hungary, you said that you would change it in a certain direction, and the experience of the WHO also dictates that there are some changes, if we are expanding our knowledge, or if, from one phase, say, from the isolated phase, a country enters a focal phase, or if you do not give a god, from a focal phase into a mass disease. Obviously, there are different protocols in each of them, which is what we are trying to do on the basis of WHO recommendations. When WHO gave its first signal, we took the same measures in Hungary the next day, so we did not delay for a minute, but tried to help everyone. I would like to thank the teachers for their efforts to prepare for the new digital education coming into force from Monday on the weekend, this is a very fast transition, obviously there is much to be done in the next few hours and days, but they were very active on the weekend, they were actually prepared for the teaching day on Monday. If you look at the number of visits to the Education Office's website, you can say that on Saturday there were 174,944 page visits, which is more than the number of teachers in Hungary; obviously someone could go up to the site several times, but regardless, this is a very, very high number, only in one day, only on Saturday, after the Prime Minister announced on Friday evening that there would be a different schedule of work in schools. The methodological recommendation, which we also uploaded, has already been downloaded by over 57,000 visitors. In the Crete system, which is the digital education system, only in one day, on Saturday, 52 thousand teachers opened the various platforms to see how they can prepare for Monday's education; 52 thousand! And if you look at the Smart Portal, where we used to upload the various digital materials, the National Public Education Portal, there were over 50,000 visits only on Saturday night hours on this website. So thank you very much for the teachers and school principals who took their job seriously this weekend, there are a lot of people, and they tried to prepare themselves for the digital education on Monday. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in order not to spread the virus, the disease, in schools, but to keep the transfer of knowledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-26	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the Democratic Coalition, has applied for a pre-meeting address:, We can count on it. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-27	Dear House, As I have already indicated in my previous reply, this is indeed not the time when sharp internal political battles and struggles have a place, but we are facing a challenge where cooperation of all forces, including all political forces, will be needed. That is why I would like to point out that it is not internal politics, it is not sneaky, it is not panicking, it is just to say what you have said over the past period that an opposition party is trying to draw attention to the problems and make proposals. That's what we do. After all, the government has been given every opportunity and every authority to deal with the situation and deal with the epidemic, and the opposition can do so to help, to make suggestions and to draw attention to the problems that need to be solved where it can. I have mentioned that the Democratic Coalition has made 38 proposals in the last few weeks, and I have said that half a dozen of them have been accepted, if I count them now, then much more, but we still have a series of proposals that we are waiting for the government to answer in substance, to evaluate them in substance, and, above all, to introduce them or to come up with better ones if it is able. Of course, being aware of our responsibility does not mean that we are blind, deaf, and mute about what is happening in the country. It doesn't mean that we close our eyes when the government sends doctors and nurses, medical personnel, without protective equipment, masks and gloves, to fight the coronal virus. Doesn't mean we're gonna keep our ears shut when we hear that the government isn't willing to test potential coronal virus infected people or even contact persons. It doesn't mean we shut our mouths when we see that we haven't been able to solve it in weeks, so that people have masks, protective equipment and hand sanitizers. The Prime Minister said that the municipalities should ensure that care for older people is resolved. I would add that it is equally important that the care of children who have received only warm food during their school meals is resolved. But to do so, it would have to be the municipal workers or the volunteers who are involved in this work, I think that there would be a lot of them, because they themselves are a risk of infection. What we understand is that sometimes the government tells us how many masks are available, but unfortunately, it doesn't get people anywhere. The thing is, of course, it's okay that the government is counting on us to support its actions, but we have a responsibility to doctors, nurses, hospital staff, police officers and soldiers, who we thank for their work, and we are grateful for what they do. But it is therefore also our job to draw attention to their protection; to draw attention to the need for more support, more help; to draw attention to the fact that they are the first line of defense in the fight against the virus, and therefore their protection is important. And this means not only that they have protective equipment - but also that the government should take their organisations seriously, not only now should health workers or police officers be important, but also in reconciliation of interests or wage negotiations. It is also clear that the epidemic will not be stopped by hospitals alone. We need to reduce the number of social contacts, which is what school closure serves, which is also what the measures announced today serve. At the same time, it is not enough for the government to say, "Well, then, families will solve the custody of their children." They can do this, and they should not use grandmothers or grandparents if they have a livelihood; if we help them not to lose their jobs; if we help them to stay at home in peace. To do this, the government must guarantee that no one can be fired for caring for their child and guarantee that these people will receive their full income. We have also made proposals for this. We expect them to be supported here in Parliament and also by the government. Dear House, As soon as we need our hospitals, our health workers, we will need people to behave disciplinedly, and we will also need all of us to follow these rules. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition also asks everyone to comply with all disease control standards, all advice, because most depend on it, people can do the most. It is not only our own health that depends on it, but also the health of our loved ones and fellow citizens. So let the government do its job, and let all of us do our best to keep this epidemic under control. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-16-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, On the basis of his speech, I have the feeling that he may agree that we are living in a week when cooperation is needed, and this means not only a strengthened cooperation between political forces, public authorities and health workers, but all Hungarian citizens, because we are faced with an epidemic that we can really combat if we all take responsibility. Of course, decision makers, especially the government, have a lot more responsibility, a lot more responsibility, on their authorities, and doctors can expect weeks of stress, but beyond that, every Hungarian citizen must ask what he can do in his own life for his family members and for the safety of his countrymen. And as far as government action is concerned, there are indeed many of your proposals that overlap with the decisions of the operational tribe, such as the government's announcement of an emergency last week, and this is an extraordinary legal order. I stress this specifically because this emergency creates the legal basis for effective action. As has been said here in the last hour, it has been decided to close the borders and ban events. A decision was also made on Friday, and there was a broad consensus among the parties that digital working arrangements had been put in place in educational institutions and that visits to educational institutions were prohibited. I would also like to emphasise here that this is not a school break, but a different way of teaching. This also means that while it is forbidden to visit educational institutions, students must avoid larger group meetings, and we ask students to do so, a lot depends on it. This is equally important, but we cannot say it enough - that custody of children is not entrusted to grandparents, and we do the same in our own lives. We know that this is already a very big challenge in itself, but it is worth making this sacrifice because older people are most vulnerable to this virus. [[12.50]] Each educational institution may organise small group supervision of pupils on working days in cases where it is impossible to do otherwise. I would also like to say that the Ministry of Human Resources has published a methodological recommendation for distance learning. We know that the transition is not easy, it will take several days if necessary, and we need patience, but in the end, I think we can agree: we want to avoid stopping education. I'd also like to talk about the tools, you've talked about it. I would like to tell you that the laboratory capacity is sufficient for thousands of samples, the tests are carried out by the National Public Health Centre in accordance with international procedures and protocols. The capacity of NNK is sufficient for the time being, but the further 7 labs have already been designated and the rapid tests are being tested by the authorities. There are 22 million pairs of gloves, 1.2 million surgical masks, 1 million additional surgical masks coming in, and 2-2 thousand respirators and sleeping machines. I would also like to tell you that, as far as GPs are concerned, over the last few weeks, you've had 4,000 boxes of masks at the rescue stations, and there are another 1,700 boxes of masks available. As far as the information is concerned, the operational tribe will hold a press conference every day. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the staff of the operational tribe attend a multi-hour meeting, then attend a multi-hour press conference, then go back to their own stations, their own institutions, make tough decisions, and verify their implementation. So when questions are addressed to them, and this applies to the representatives of the press, and also to Members who are otherwise of legitimate interest, please take this into account. The staff of the operational tribe shall also be able to hold their own stations. The opposition proposals are taken into account by the government. If you look at the last few days, you will see that there have been a number of steps in which I think there is agreement. In Hungarian political life burdened with conflicts, I think it is a serious weapon in itself. We also hear further suggestions. In relation to these, let me say that further decisions can always be taken in consultation with epidemiological experts, specialists and operational tribe. And even though there are economic aspects, they have also been mentioned in the last hour, but the protection of human life is now far ahead, which is where all the measures need to be taken. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-30	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-03-16-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, following the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda, we have clarified the responsibilities, but I would like to confirm once again that the Government can make decisions that can be the most effective in dealing with this epidemic, so responsibility is also the government's. But the opposition also has a responsibility, namely that the protection, health and safety of people are equally important to us. For this reason, the MSZP faction today presents to Parliament a five-point defence package in the form of a resolution proposal, which I very much hope will be taken into account by the government when drawing up various action plans. The first is the package on the protection of the health of Hungarian people, in which we share the professional opinion of the Hungarian Medical Chamber and do not share Prime Minister's opinion, because he did not suggest that everyone should be tested, but suggested that it should be done where necessary. And if we look at the examples of the neighbouring countries, and just the example of Austria, much more tests have been carried out, and obviously the number of cases is higher, so we do not know that the current number of cases is more realistic to reflect the data of the spread of viruses in Hungary. So we need more tests, protective equipment, and a lot more. I trust that the decisions we have just discussed will be implemented. The other is the package on the protection of Hungarian working people, workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. I do not agree with Prime Minister, who said that this will be resolved in the personal consultation of employers and workers. The Prime Minister and the Government leave the Hungarian employees and Hungarian employers alone, focusing on their agreement, but how does an employer give an adequate answer to their employees if they run out of income? ! How do you protect your workplace if you cannot rely on the Hungarian government for anything and expect any budgetary facilitation in anything? ! This is why we are now initiating a wide-ranging consultation with trade unions, employers' organisations, and the government should make an offer on what workers can manage. For example, the government should suspend the payment of the social contribution tax and the health contribution, thereby helping employers. Create a wage guarantee fund that employers can turn to. Ban redundancies in multinational companies, who have made thousands of billions of HUF profits from Hungary in recent years. And if it turns out that someone is losing their job because the employer cannot give them a job, hundreds of people are losing their jobs right now, fellow Members! Anyone who is a Member and receives notifications of who, how, in hospitality, in tourism, loses their jobs, what does the employer say to them? You can't say anything because your sales are down to zero, how can you ensure that? And it is important, yes, for the government to take action in the provision of unemployment if this is what will be needed. The third package is a package that protects the elderly, pensioners and those receiving social care, as we are witnessing a price explosion in the food market that a large part of Hungarian pensioners will not be able to handle with this pension. It is necessary to pay the pension premium and, if possible, as soon as possible. It is necessary to achieve a real, realistic pension increase. And one more thing, fellow Members. It costs $30 for oil, the price of gas has dropped everywhere. Why can't they cut the gas price, at least for this transitional period? ! There are tens of billions of HUF, hundreds of billions of HUF in Hungarian state companies, why not give it to Hungarian families? ! Our fourth package is a package that protects teachers, students, people working in public education. I'm sorry, I have four children going to three different schools. One of the schools tested the possibility of digital education on Friday, even though the Prime Minister hadn't announced the decision yet, only the news was about the seven-party consultation. The other school sent the suggestions on Sunday, and the third school couldn't even decide when to pick up their stuff. There is no uniform solution. So what you're saying doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. I'm sorry. And the fifth package is protective measures for parents. Here too, at least one parent should be able to stay at home in a flexible working order. There's the family allowance, you just need to raise it for this transitional period, at least for this transitional period, so that families can make a living. Now, this is the five-point package we're proposing to the government and Parliament for consideration. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-32	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-16-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, First of all, allow me to thank everyone who is involved in the defence, for their contribution and for their commitment, and also for those politicians who have contributed constructively to today's debate by emphasising unity. Here, if I may, Mr Group Leader, I would like to make it clear once again that Members of Parliament are also facing a serious task. According to the rules of the Fundamental Law, the emergency which the government has been able to order in the last few days, and on the basis of which we can deal with such exceptional situations, the extension of these emergency formations falls within the competence of the Parliament under the Fundamental Law. So here and now I would like to make it clear and ask for your support that the debate in this context, which is obviously also going to be a legislative debate and a political debate, can be carried out within a constructive framework, and in this we count on the personal commitment of all opposition parties and political leaders. Thank you very much for stressing the responsibility of the individual, because, according to our current knowledge, we can do the most to reduce the spread of the virus along the lines of individual responsibility, according to basically scientific but social science. [[13.00]] It is particularly important to pay particular attention to older people and to pay particular attention to older people from younger generations. Thank you very much, and I would like to underline once again, it is important that everyone convinces their own electoral base that the disease control measures adopted by the government and thus partly confirmed by the Parliament are in the interest of all of us, and the most important thing is that everyone fully complies with the regulatory provisions. In fact, as the Prime Minister pointed out, self-limitation and rules of conduct are also needed beyond the provisions that can be considered as official. We would also like to ask for the support of all opposition groups, and we would like to ask you to move into these directions the channels of communication available to you. Finally, I would also like to ask, if you will allow me, Mr Group Leader, that the regularly spreading hoaxes, false news, conscious misinterpretations do not train the communication space of politicians, and try to keep them out of the public. Let me give you an example. It was a typical example, and it was also mentioned in the speeches before the agenda, the question of available budgetary resources. No one thinks, can seriously think that the Hungarian government is transferring only HUF 2 billion to the defense costs. Anyone with any budgetary expertise knows that this is an open budget from above, so I would like to ask you to try to find out before you communicate on these topics, so that we ourselves do not consciously or unconsciously promote the spread of false news. On what has been said with the virus, I would like to repeat what Secretary of State Rétvári said: there are WHO protocols here, and we are following these WHO protocols. There may be more successful and less successful countries in defence, but with this virus, this virus becomes a mass, everyone ultimately has to deal with it. This seems inevitable, and I would therefore like to ask that all our measures and all our communications increase confidence in the supply system. And so far, I've been constructive. If I may, I would be destructive in 30 seconds, too, because you mentioned what budgetary measures are available and what plans the Hungarian Government will adopt at a certain point and what you propose. I'm sorry, Mr. Group Leader, but the fact that you are talking about reducing the prices of overhead and gas, while you have raised gas prices 30 times during your so-called expert governance, and the country has collapsed economically, I do not consider it fair. I don't think this is the place for this right now. You misunderstood the Prime Minister's sentences, because it was a matter of priority for all measures that primarily aim at keeping jobs, and then we can talk about how we can deal with the unsustainable situation in other sectors. We would also like to ask for your assistance in these matters. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-34	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-16-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, at the very beginning of my speech, to thank law enforcement and health workers and even workers who contribute in some way to maintaining the country's viability and suffering as little loss as possible from everyday life. We can all be proud of their work and thank you very much for your sacrifice to any Hungarian citizen or anyone who can help us fight the virus. Allow me to express my regret about yesterday's unfortunate death. We wish the relatives comfort in our own name. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now in a situation and perhaps death points to this - that we shake ourselves and everyone in society, no matter how serious the gravity of the situation has been, the whole of society must take it seriously now that there is a threatening situation in Hungary, in which we must all share in defence and prevention together. From the outset, Jobbik has taken the view that panic should be avoided, and that our proposals have always pointed in this direction, even on the side of the legal order, in favour of the safest and strictest solution. For the first time, we offered our help to the government and our cooperation during the outbreak or the pre-emptive state of defense. We'll keep doing that. Firstly, we have warned the government and we are warning that the most important element is to preserve the functioning of the health system. We also suggested it first, and we are very pleased that international examples have supported this, and obviously it is not Jobbik's own size, but collective wisdom - that schools, kindergartens and crèches had to be closed as soon as possible. We are pleased that the government has also taken action to limit these Community meeting points. Maybe we should have done it a little faster. Examples show that this is a functional model in preventing the virus from spreading. We asked for strict border control and border closure. It was basically a public health lockdown. We asked for this last week, and perhaps today, thanks to the proposals and regulation announced by the Prime Minister. Thank you very much for having some of our suggestions. All of these have been made constructively and in order to serve the good of all of us, the protection and safety of all of us. But, fellow Members, there is something else that needs to be done, and I would also like to tell you what we see and what we think is justified. They feed on old ideas on the one hand and new international examples on the other. The first thing the Prime Minister talked about is closing commercial units. This was raised yesterday, which seems to be in some form, now with a time limit. The basic theory, the basic theory in which we need to take action is the closure of all units that do not serve life support, so with the exception of grocery stores, pharmacy and, where appropriate, gas stations, all units where more people can turn, where there is more contact, more contact. Jobbik also proposes, as my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, has announced today - to protect workers, the economy with a five-point action plan that will be able to compensate for the loss of income for workers or even loss of revenue for businesses. Allow me to mention here that I do not know if I understood correctly, but I hope not - that Viktor Orbán is essentially suggesting to the workers that they themselves agree with the employer on how they can work and what they can expect. We propose that this requires a clear labour law regulation, which you can now introduce in view of the extraordinary legal order and regulate by regulation, precisely so that Hungarian workers, Hungarian workers and Hungarian people can make everyday living. What we have proposed, and it is worth considering, has been said several times, is more frequent testing. I am not saying that we should introduce the otherwise very impressive and very well-looking South Korean model, where the number of tests alone exceeds the total number of tests in Europe, but in some way we need to know where the virus is at present in society, where it has gone and where it has gone. We have also done the communication clauses today, indeed, everyone will need more calmness, less arrogance and more cooperation. Let me conclude by saying that we have three goals: to contain the further spread of the virus as soon as possible; to reduce the risk of infection obviously, therefore, the closure of the community spaces is absolutely justified; to protect as many children, parents and grandparents as possible; and to enable the health care system to withstand the greatest load. Ladies and gentlemen, If you go through hell, just keep going, said Winston Churchill. All we have to do is keep working, keep moving. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-16-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that you, Member, have outdone your group leader today because you have been able to take an attitude that may indeed be a better indicator of the situation at the moment, since decisive action is indeed a national interest and not a party political issue. You had several suggestions that Jobbik had made earlier, which were already decided by the government and the operational tribe. We will strive to be able to take all measures to ensure the safety of people in this pandemic, which has already been declared a pandemic by WHO, since now we can talk about 169 thousand infected people, 77 thousand cured people and unfortunately over 6,000 dead people worldwide. [[13.10]] Thus, every country in the world will fight this virus, this infection, as Hungary does, and obviously where cooperation is stronger, where people have a sense of responsibility, self-discipline, and obviously where information is wider, because obviously no one knows what the nature of different viruses is, it must be said to people with the help of professionals and governments and politicians, well, the situation can be more encouraging. Therefore, it cannot be said enough here in Parliament, either on the pro-government or on the opposition side, that we can really do the most in our own environment in order to slow down the spread of the virus, to reduce the number of infected by minimizing relations between people. That's why the government decided to switch education to a digital working order, which is why the government decided to prohibit larger mass events from allowing larger indoor or outdoor events, because this is the most important, this is the most important. We're not in a situation like everyday illness, when we have the routine of calling a doctor who prescribes a drug that we replace in the pharmacy, which we then take, and we heal, or if it's worse, the hospital knows exactly what the cure is for a disease, but we're dealing with a whole new situation here. It is also because doctors do not know this virus, and that is why they cannot cure it, because there is no medicine for it, and on the other hand because we are not talking about an individual disease here in many countries, fortunately in Hungary today, but it is possible that many countries, where at the present moment there are only individual infections and diseases, are in a situation where there are points of focus, and from then on a completely different situation, an epidemiological situation that is not comparable to the everyday life that we are suffering from when we are sick, we live in our everyday lives. Therefore, in relation to the routines, the attitude that we have in relation to an everyday or previous disease, the epidemiological situation is a completely different situation, where we have not seen it in bulk before, and, moreover, in the case of an infection, we are talking about an epidemic in the case of a virus the cure of which is not known in any country of the world. This is why it is important for everyone here to change their own rhythm of life, their own way of life, for as long as there is an epidemiological emergency in Hungary, for the authorities to follow their actions and for different communications to be followed by everyone. It's not acceptable that someone who's being ordered into a home quarantine, then goes out and walks down the street and is found somewhere else where he might infect others. Everyone must comply with the regulations of the authorities. Honourable Congressman, On 24 January, the WHO first signal was issued, and on 25 January, the chief of staff and health services immediately started preparing. On 31 January, a 28-point action plan was adopted by the already established operational tribe. The Public Health Centre, the Office of Official Medicine, has also prepared an action plan, the rescue service has issued a director-general's order and has adopted a new procedure, also at the South-Pest Centrum Hospital, in St. Laszlo Hospital, a new director-general's order has come into force, which includes the treatment of diseases. In order for more diseases to occur, last week the government completely emptied it and made the Kútvölgyi block suitable for supplying those persons whose hospital, health care institution supervision is justified in order to combat the infection. In universities and schools, we stopped personal education, and in primary schools we switched to digital education. The Prime Minister also spoke today about the restriction of border traffic and the possibility for Hungarian citizens only. We've talked about the end of events. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Ten LAGs have set up plans for different sub-tasks. I think we are trying to do everything we can to protect the health of Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-38	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, spoke before the agenda, with the title of Mr János Latorcai, the Group of the KDNP, one day after our national holiday. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2020-03-16-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, One day and a week before the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship, it is our duty to remember those brave Poles who, leaving their homelands and loved ones behind more than 170 years ago, crossed the Carpathians to support the cause of Hungarian freedom. But they came not only from beyond the Carpathians, from the occupied territories, but also volunteers from the Polish emigrants scattered around the world, as they heard our call. In the autumn of 1848 Kossuth ordered the government's agent in Paris, Count László Teleki, to offer the possibility of service in the army to some of the former generals of the Polish uprising in France in 1831. In the absence of officers, our country needed well-trained, experienced, reliable commanders, so some leading representatives of the great emigration, such as József Bem, Henrik Dembinszky and József Visoczki, came to us in the spirit of Polish-Hungarian friendship, to mention only the most important ones. Thanks to their knowledge, expertise and the experienced soldiers of the first and second Polish legions soon organized, we were able to fight the imperial troops in a short time. We know from Professor István Kovács' latest work that three generals, five colonels, 12 lieutenant colonels and 18 majors and more than 1500 Polish soldiers spilled their blood and, if necessary, sacrificed their lives for Hungarian independence. These brave Poles considered the acquisition of Hungarian independence to be a pledge of Poland's reunification and resurrection. Unfortunately, just as we failed, the Polish efforts could not succeed. Only the first world war brought Poland's independence, but soon it was threatened by aggressive Soviet expansion. At this time, we Hungarians had an opportunity to return the unselfish support of Polishism with camaraderie actions in the spirit of our friendship. We can rightly be proud, honourable Members, that we have been able to support the Polish patriots fighting for their freedom, even under the burden of the Trianon dictatorship. In the decisive battle, in the Battle of Warsaw, or as they call it: in the Battle of Visula, the shipment of Hungarian ammunition from the Weiss Manfred factory in Csepel proved vital, as our Polish brothers were able to reverse the battle, thus preserving Poland's freshly recovered independence and freedom. Unfortunately, this year we can only remember all this because of the pandemic caused by the Crown Virus, but the driving force of our actions can only be a policy based on trust, mutual respect and understanding, because only this will ensure that in a hundred years' time we can welcome each other as citizens of sovereign nations proudly guarding their national and Christian identities on the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship. Even in this emergency, despite the difficulties, may God enjoy the Hungarian-Polish friendship! Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-16-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Szilárd Németh wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2020-03-16-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Colleagues! Thank you very much to my fellow Member, Professor János Latorcai, for this commemoration, and allow me to say a few thoughts about one of the battles you quoted, the magic of Vistula, the Battle of Warsaw, and to confirm you in the message that when you start on Hungarian military relations from 48-49, it is quite clear to all of us that, while we are in a thousand years of friendship, we are in a thousand-year military relationship, but we always had to fight together against some empire, and in the fight against empires, we could always count on each other. [[13.20]] This was also the case in World War I when a country completely looted and mutilated in a domestic political crisis, Hungary, helped Poland to defend its state recovered on 11 November 1918 after 123 years against those countries who were opposed in the new state, in the second republic, the leader of which was the former commander of the Polish legion, Marshal Józef Piłsudski. The Hungarian nation has supported the Poles from the beginning to protect this old-new country. The first shipment of Hungarian war materials was launched from Košice in November 1918, and the infantry bullets released from the reserve stock contributed to the protection of Lemberg. On the other hand, a Hungarian legion was formed from volunteers in Jordanów, Cieszyn and Pokuci near Krakow. The squadron's force was intended primarily for diversification, and they were eventually deployed against the Bolsheviks. From February 1919, Poland had to face a formidable new opponent at its eastern borders, Soviet Russia, seeking the return of former imperial territories and the export of communist terror. We lead the world revolution through Poland's dead body when Trotsky, the military commissioner, shouted and entered Poland's territory. In the beginning, however, Polish victories were born, and by the spring of 1920 the front line was already 500 kilometers east of Warsaw. Later, the Red Army became very strong, with forced marching, forced enlisting, and overpowering the Poles, and this 500 - mile [500 km] distance fell 100 km by the summer of 1920. In addition, Poland's total infantry ammo has run out for this time. This was also established in the Polish Defence Council, which is why they turned to Hungary, the Weiss Manfréd Works in Csepel, to transport ammunition. The shipments from Csepel were unloaded in Skierniewice, about 60 kilometers from the front line, and were distributed to the Polish troops in two days, so Marshal Piłsudski was able to win a very bright victory in the famous battle of Warsaw on 15 August. The Hungarian-Polish friendship day has never been more important because of commemoration of events around 100 years ago. We look back not only on the thousand years of friendship between the two nations, but also on the Polish-Bolshevik war won with Hungarian help. The military supply for the Poles was made thanks to the heavy industry in Csepel, so we feel particularly prominent to commemorate our common history in Csepel, so we planned a full week for commemoration with colourful cultural programs, to which we invited the two Presidents of the Republic, János Áder and Presidents Andrzej Duda. Unfortunately, this commemoration must now be left behind because of the threat caused by the corona virus, against which we are once again going to fight with our Polish friends. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-42	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-03-16-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2020, a new phase began for all of us. This is not surprising, because in 2010 we were in a similar situation a good decade ago, when Hungary was able to get out of a very serious financial crisis. However, the current period between 2020 and 2030 has come to us with a global epidemic that we do not have any previous experience. Obviously, we want to protect as many people as possible from the virus, to ensure as many lives as possible, and at the same time to take invigorating steps in the Hungarian economy that will give us the opportunity to preserve the success of the last ten years, and Hungary will continue to achieve above the European Union's average. We must be aware that in this situation we will need special solutions, special tools, as we did after 2010. The corona virus is sensitive to the national economy of all countries in the world, and Hungary cannot be an exception. For this reason, the government has rightly set up ten different action groups, one of which is the Crown Virus Financial Action Group, led by Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, and the other is the task force responsible for relaunching the economy, led by Minister Andrea Bartfai-Mager. These are the two LAGs that have a direct influence on them, and their direct task is to take measures that can help to keep the Hungarian economy in the best possible condition in the current situation. Unfortunately, we need to be prepared for the epidemic to last for months, so the measures must be prepared in such a way that, not just for a few weeks, for a few months, but for this year, the results will be felt by economic operators as well. Next year's and this year's budgets need to be redesigned, and billions of euros of economic recovery assistance will be needed, which will require an adequate contribution from everyone. It is necessary to ensure that the economic downturn is not at the same rate as in the 2008-2009 years, but at the highest level, with which the Hungarian economy will still be able to achieve double the EU average. The government expects growth scenarios between 3.5 per cent and minus 0.3 per cent by 2020, depending on the impact, depth and duration of the coronal virus on the world economy. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In the spring of 2019, when we planned the 2020 budget, we calculated an economic growth of 4 percent, which, according to both the central bank and financial analysts, was a realistic plan. In the budget we calculated a 1 percent deficit and a 1 percent reserve of approximately HUF 490 billion. The reserve has already been spent in recent weeks, but there is still a significant amount available to help even in cases of force majeure. However, if the crisis is very deep and affects many sectors, it is possible that even this reserve will prove to be limited. The economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic is already visible, as there is a decline in the hotel industry of over 50 percent, but it also has a very serious impact on the range of hospitality and other services. The steps that can help to stabilise economic growth in the changing world need to be considered. The aim is that Hungary can reach 85-90 percent of the European Union's development by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to assure you that the Fidesz faction will provide all the government's support in the coming weeks and months in order to take the best possible economic policy steps and measures, we will defend the economic results that we have achieved together over the past ten years. We are also prepared to assist the economic operators with individual intervention, if necessary. We would like to see consumption, wage outflow and capital inflow drawing on the Hungarian economy again this year. Ladies and gentlemen, We're ready to cooperate. In this very difficult situation, we must strive to have one question in mind, regardless of political affiliation and party standing: how we can protect Hungary, how we can protect Hungarian people. Now we really need the widest possible national cooperation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2020-03-16-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members from here as well. We will hear the answer from András Tállai to the Member's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say first of all that I agree with you that in this situation, in which the world, Europe and Hungary are in place, we really need to focus on common thinking, cooperation and, above all, cooperation. Political goals should not be achieved here. It is necessary to ensure that the country's population remains safe, so that as few people as possible are affected by this pandemic from a health point of view. The important issue is that a government needs to see what it's supposed to do in terms of budgeting and fundraising. The most important task for the government now is to create the resources needed for defence, to create resources, and, as the Prime Minister has said, to be able to provide them continuously. So the currently available HUF 8.8 billion is a state. Whenever the operational tribe considers that this should be further increased, the source is available at the moment. As you have said, the source of this is, above all, a budget reserve of 1 per cent of GDP, but if necessary, the government is prepared to join the Ministry of Finance in releasing other funds. We must point out that money should not prevent us from protecting the country, protecting Hungarian people from even greater trouble. As you have said, honourable Member, this virus, the pandemic, has and will have very serious other effects on the economy, on Europe's economy and on Hungary's economy. It is very important that the government sees this too, you know, and is prepared to take important steps and take measures to ensure that this does not stop the economy and that there is no budgetary and other economic crisis. What is important is what the Prime Minister said that keeping people's jobs is the most important goal. It is necessary to find tools for employers and employees to work together in the first place, and then for the Government of Hungary to lose as few people as possible in order to affect as few people as possible, not to go in to work, to have no income, to ensure the safety of their family. It is very important that, like the economic situation in 2010, there are currently difficulties that are expected to require those instruments, those decisions, from the Government of Hungary and the National Assembly of Hungary. Such an important instrument is amending the budget. The amending and changing budget will affect the adopted budget for 2020, but also the budget for 2021 in the plan. What this will mean in particular, we obviously need to look at the effects that we will be seeing in the coming weeks and months and see the light of day. It is important, in addition to the importance of stabilising the health care system from a financial point of view, that economic support and access to finance should also be an important objective. We have heard that monetary instruments will be needed in order to maintain the stability of the Hungarian economy. Otherwise, the Hungarian economy is strong. The Hungarian economy has grown so strong in recent years that it can survive in crisis situations and saves itself and millions of workers in crisis situations. As you said, we have set up a task force to investigate this on an ongoing basis. The head of the financial action group became Minister of Finance Mihály Varga himself. We've already started work at the Ministry of Finance, and we're constantly preparing to present to the government the necessary decision preparation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-16-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group of the LMP; István Simicskó, Member of the Parliament, notary of the KDNP Group; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of Jobbik; Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, also from the Jobbik Group; Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament, from the MSZP Group; and Mr Ádám Steinmetz from the Jobbik Group. Now it's 1:36 p.m., and we're gonna start questioning. Dear House, Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik's representative, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, How does the government intend to solve distance learning in higher education? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, by answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who, at his request, will have the answer given to you by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The measures against the corona virus epidemic also have a serious impact on the Hungarian university world, as is the well-known spring break in the world of universities from today in order to better prepare for distance learning, and students from colleges had to travel home, with the exception of foreign students and certain cases of fairness. Here, too, as a former university leader, I would like to express the recognition and support of my extremely creative academic fellows who are really trying to prepare for this distance learning system during this period. I think, however, that it is also right to ask Mr State Secretary a few specific questions on all these issues, because for Jobbik education and higher education are a priority nation strategy sector. Firstly, the question is that universities have a specific proposal for a portfolio responsible for higher education to prepare and support distance learning. With what financial and other resources and technical means does the Ministry plan to support the university world? There will be a need for laptops, virtual classrooms, digital teaching materials, applications, and many of our university educators, especially at the lower level of the university hierarchy, do not have the means to stop talking about college students from the poorer family. When will a college stay be clarified on the basis of fairness? When exactly will these conditions be clarified, and how does the Ministry intend to help the university world during these periods? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply with great respect. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The new coronal virus has posed a major challenge for Europe as a whole, and in this situation we need to work together, and we ask for your consent. I'm also trying to answer the questions you've asked. As you have said, it is prohibited, under the relevant regulation, to visit higher education institutions by students. It is therefore particularly important to stress, honourable Member, that the legislation specifically stated a ban on students, since we all know that there are tens of thousands of foreign students studying in Hungary, and that the epidemic was first introduced into Hungary by foreigners, and we can also say that during the first period it spread primarily around them. [[13.40]] Continued work is still necessary and possible for higher education administrations and education participants, which is also allowed by the regulations. There is ongoing coordination between higher education institutions and education administration in these hours as well. The higher education institutions ordered a rector's break on 12 and 13 March, and the spring break was brought forward by this week. In fact, a week and a half is available to organise absentee education. I would also like to inform you that the learning system used by the vast majority of higher education institutions is also capable of putting up with more stress, but at the same time we are giving institutions the freedom to use exactly what technology they want to use for distance learning and teletraining. This could be different every training and every hour. We have called on the action plans and, if they need help, we will give this to the individual institutions. We would also like to give universities freedom in this, as well as the possibility for the rectors to exercise fairness when they are in the college. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-03-16-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How does the government protect those most at risk from the coronal virus, the sick and the elderly, from the epidemic? It's an address. Here you go. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2020-03-16-51	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President. I would like to begin by saying that the state was invented at the time to put it so unspeakable that it would help and take action. As a result, I ask the Secretary of State that there are a lot of elderly people who are provided with basic social care, and there are a lot of people who are placed in permanent housing facilities. As a result, I think that it is the social sphere that deserves to be thanked, in addition to health care and law enforcement workers, for its support during this critical period. A lot of people, like I said, in primary care, they need some help, because we know pretty much the numbers. Some 90,000 people are involved in home assistance, about 180,000 people are involved in social catering, and we also know that some 50-52 thousand people are provided in day care facilities. As a result, I also ask what the government is doing to ensure that these people receive all the help and care they deserve in an impeccable capacity and in time. Are you trying to involve me with some kind of human resources opportunity, so that the professional staff that is currently in charge of these people can fully fulfil their duties? The other area is the problem of residents in a permanent boarding facility. The most important thing here is that the virus does not enter these facilities. I'm talking about about 90,000 people here, too. And there are a lot of people, especially those with disabilities, who are staying at home. What measures are being taken to help them? Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-03-16-52	Congressman, as I said, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, as you said, experience has shown that older people are most at risk with the new coronal virus epidemic. Therefore, those who are in their own homes, as well as those who receive some kind of state help in their homes, and those who are in some institution, need increased attention. Information on this has been provided in different ways in the last few days, weeks. Care should also be taken here to avoid requiring employees or managers of institutions to be more specifically informed about the possibility of additional virus transfer. So this risk must also be eliminated. It was one of the first measures taken by the operational tribe, and the Chief of Staff ordered it to be a visitation ban. There is not only a visit ban in hospitals in Hungary on a general basis, but also in social institutions. No one can enter social services from outside, but obviously those who work there. There is only one reason why if someone is dying, family members can enter, but in this case, too, a special requirement must be followed to eliminate fully the risk of infection when people enter, who may want to say goodbye to their last - hour relatives. Therefore, in times of emergency, such prevention is the most important, as you said, Congressman, that is the most important, since, as we have seen in Italy in particular, elderly people are very exposed to the risk of infection. That's why we've started a very wide-ranging campaign in the last week. It is Paul Győrfi, a spokesman for the rescue service, who, in most cases, draws attention to exactly what needs to be done in order to protect elderly people, whether in connection with washing hands or visiting them or in connection with everyday contact, how we can protect our elderly relatives, parents, grandparents from being exposed to infection. Therefore, in the case of child care, there is no high school request that it be preferably not the grandparents who look after the children. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-03-16-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance what does the Orbán government do to alleviate the economic damage caused by the Crown Virus? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-55	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, I would like to point out, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, that the members of the Committee on Budgets are ready to do the amendment and the necessary tasks with regard to the amendment of the budget which has so many times been discussed today. It is only because it is important for all of us to spare the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, or to spare them as much as possible from the effects and to have the necessary resources available. But that is why I also see that you have noticed it, and it is clear from the previous comment that in the summer of 2008 there was a similar situation when, after a 4 percent increase in spring and summer, after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, the country was in a very difficult situation. It is true that at that time my fellow Members of the Fidesz were concerned with putting this on the government's shoulders, but we are not doing this to you. We say that this is a consequence that needs to be dealt with separately. It's not happiness, because it's gonna cause us a lot of trouble right now. But history, fate, is now repaying you for what you did then, but we want to support your economic efforts. In this sense, I think it is important for you to prepare and respond, Mr Secretary of State, to the preparation of a bank loan programme with state guarantees to support Hungarian small businesses. What about those who fall out of work? Do they get sick? What about those who can take unpaid leave, for example, to stay home with the children? Is there a scenario that some multinational company, even if it stops production, will do what, instead of begging the employers and employees? This is a time to act. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-03-16-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm glad you started by offering your help as chairman of the Committee on Budgets. What I'm sorry about is that you only talked about this for 25 seconds, and the rest of the time, it's something else. He brought 2008 here. However, I would like to point out two things, which is different between 2008 and 2020. In 2008, Hungary's then Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, who was still your boss and you were still your boss, learned that the country was in crisis, that he was told one night, so he said that Feri, the country, was insolvent. That's how he found out there was a crisis. [[13.50]] That's not the case. The Prime Minister of Hungary here in front of Parliament said that there is a problem that the corona virus affects not only the health of people, but also the Hungarian economy. We're getting ready. You specifically ask about the loan scheme, the situation of employees. I think that the government has made every effort to answer these questions in an appropriate way. He has set up an action group with the Head of Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who will continuously analyse the state of the economy, the situation of workers, the liquidity situation of small businesses, and will then present the steps and decisions to be taken. One thing's for sure, the government heard that, you know, that's what he's up to. It is preparing to reshape, rearrange the budget, and prepare to provide assistance to employers and workers who will unfortunately be caught up with the coronal virus in this sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology:. The planned obsolescence is supported by the government as well as by the Momentum? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Congressman Antal Csárdi, please.
u2020-03-16-59	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Momentum voted in agreement with the representatives of Fidesz in the European Parliament on the proposal submitted by the new Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, which aims to prepare a coherent and long-term plan to mitigate climate change at EU level. The additions and amendments to this package have included proposals from the ban on investments in pollution to the increase in penalties for polluting companies, until the redesign of free trade agreements and until the ban on electronics products manufactured with planned obsolescence. These truly useful amendments, which are serious recommendations to the European Commission, have been voted down by the Momentum and the Fidesz pair. Momentum's decision is only understandable, since they take into account the protection aspects of multinational companies in their European party family, but Fidesz representatives did not hear the words of the Hungarian Prime Minister about the climate protection action plan and appear to continue the uncritical support practices of multinational companies. I'm going to deal with the planned obsolescence in more detail, and I'm going to ask the government what their position is on the case. In the case of planned obsolescence, the manufacturer aims to encourage the customer to buy a new device by reducing the product's lifetime. They deceive customers and cause enormous damage to the environment by the frequent re-production of electronic waste. The Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors also specializes in and addressed the problem, but LMP also submitted a proposal on this in the previous cycle, which was voted down by the Fidesz-KDNP majority, of course. We are facing new challenges and a new period of time, where locality and the production of durable tools must be turned towards avoiding global negative impacts. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Did the government recognize the problem, wish to do anything about the planned obsolescence exercise? Or does the government agree with the Momentum and the neoliberal lobby? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-61	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Anyone who monitors the work of the Hungarian government can clearly see that neoliberal principles are as far away from him as they are from the ground. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Oh!]] All our actions, the Fidesz-KDNP policy, reflect the interests and values of Christian freedom, nation and family, Hungarian communities. [[Laszlo Varju: Ten Commandments...]] That is why we are being attacked by so many of those who serve global interests, and you have just fallen in love with these parties. [[Deterioration from the dialogue benches.]] Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out that the European Parliament and the Council adopted the Circular Economy Directive in the spring of 2018, which aims to ensure the creation of a cycle by moving towards life-cycle focus, thus enforcing both environmental and economic aspects. Measures to support the circular economy cover all stages of the value chain, from production to consumption, reuse, repair and recycling. Member States should take measures to ensure the most efficient recycling of waste and should facilitate the implementation of technologies aimed at preventing waste generation and recycling critical sources of raw materials that have become waste in order to ensure resource efficiency. Honourable Congressman, The technical preparation of the directive transplant is already underway at our portfolio, and a technical proposal has already been drawn up to serve the transition to a circular economy and the interests of consumers at the same time, and in a much broader context than the planned obsolescence you mentioned. Following the planned amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, consumer rights will become wider [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in line with the requirements of the circular economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Why doesn't the Government and Parliament, as employers, do anything about the spread of the Crown Virus? It's an address. I respectfully inform you, honourable Member, that by answering this question, the Prime Minister has entrusted the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister's Office of Gergely Gulyás, who, at his request, will be answered by Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As a result of the emergency announced by the coronal virus, teleworking, more frequent cleaning and disinfection in the institutions were ordered at most workplaces and information boards were placed in appropriate hygienic conditions, including the call for proper hand washing. This was also done by the metropolitan government led by dialogueist Gergely Christmas. At the same time, almost nothing happened in the Parliament, the Parliament's Office, the ministries, the government offices. All right, on Friday, tourists were banned from the Parliament, but we managed to ban journalists with the same momentum. And we, congressmen, are still sitting 200 on each other's tips instead of skipping a chair in a room twice this size. In fact, we have a document that states that the ministries have directly forbidden teleworking. Dear Secretary of State, If the government itself is asking for more serious attention from each Hungarian, why does the government and Parliament not set a good example? Why do people in public institutions not receive adequate protection? Why is there no information, why are there no disinfectants, why are there no information boards in the bathrooms? Doesn't the Ministry think this situation is dangerous? Why do you not oblige the leaders of these institutions to take the necessary, in particular hygiene measures? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-03-16-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-65	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I hope you'll forgive me if, given the fact that I represent the government, I just want to answer the question about the government. The emergency was not an emergency, and after the announcement of an emergency, it was also possible for the government to decide on the increased protection of workers in strategic sectors. This is why, among other things, health workers, professional contracted soldiers, voluntary reserve workers serving the actual military service, defence workers, law enforcement workers, employees of the tax authority and government officials are ordered not to travel abroad. These are the strategic sectors which cannot suspend work in an emergency. In this case, and specifically with regard to the Ministry staff, we immediately ordered that offices and community spaces be cleaned and disinfected more carefully than ever; we provided for the disposal of non-contact hand sanitizers; we placed information materials in elevators and washrooms. This is also readable in our building. Moreover, the Government Administration Act has already provided opportunities for different formats of flexible work. What's important is that at the moment, the government windows carry out about 15 million cases a year. We're talking about more than 58,000 customer authorities meeting each day. [[14.00]] Therefore, in this case, the application of disinfection and hygiene rules is of particular importance. That is why we have ordered the extension of the scope of the documents that have expired, and therefore we are directing everyone who can, towards online administration, so that the completed documents should be taken over not personally, but by post, and that is why we are also providing facilitations for the preparation of online tax returns. We hope, of course, that, in a similar timetable, disinfection has also taken place in these institutions, that these measures will serve together the purpose of protection against the epidemic. [[Bence of Turda: In the ministries?]] Thank you very much for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] You can't close the state!
u2020-03-16-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Alpár Gyopáros, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, 'Does the subsidies in Hungary compensate for the decline in profitability? Is the amount of support sufficient to maintain a bee-keeping mood? In addition to the National Programme of Beekeeping, can other support be requested for Hungarian beekeepers? It's an address. Congressman Alpár Gyopáros has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to pay all my respects to those who today stand on the fronts, in health, in law enforcement, in trade, in retail, but also in all production sectors, including those working in agriculture, so that food supply remains safe. Well, Minister, climate change is a transformation of complex, interrelated processes and interactions in the climate system, which is why the Government of Hungary is doing so in order to protect and protect the nature given by God. It is important not only to talk about it, but also to act, not only with the announced green program, but also with other small things, which protect not only nature, but through this example we also help beekeepers. It's no exaggeration to say there's no life without bees. The global food chain on Earth is basically based on the activity of bees and other pollinators, both the animal world and we humans would be unable to survive the world without bees. The current bee population must be maintained, with a support system to stimulate the uterine mood. At present 20,000 beekeepers work in the country, unlike consumption, we Hungarians are a great power in production, we give 10 percent of the Union's honey production. The so-called bee density here is the highest not only in relation to the EU, but also in the world, the national average is 13 bee families per square kilometer, but in some parts of the country, such as Zala and Somogy County, this number is above 20. The issue is also important for Hungary because we are the third largest honey-producing country in the European Union, the importance of the sector is also shown by the fact that bees pollinate 84 percent of plants and pollination makes it possible to produce 76 percent of food. Due to the anomalies in the honey market, there is a reduction in bee-keeping in some EU Member States, mainly Chinese honey, which flows into the EU and is often of questionable quality, causes many problems for beekeepers. In view of the above, I would like to ask Minister, bee-keeping aid in Hungary compensates for the decline in profitability, the level of support is sufficient to maintain the bee-keeping mood, and other support for Hungarian bee-keepers may be required in addition to the national bee-keeping programme. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-16-69	Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for the fact that, in this way, as spring comes, when bees wake up, we draw attention to the fact that beekeeping is a major strategic sector for agriculture. It is true that without pollination there is no life, no future. One in six groceries would disappear from the shelves if the bees didn't do their job. At the same time, we see that, on the basis of purely economic considerations, the current economic situation cannot support the bee-keeping activity. Therefore, an ageing bee-keeping society poses serious dangers for young people, and there will be no attraction for the next generation to be a bee-keeping activity. What incentive system can we put in place to give young people and the next generation the pleasure of this wonderful activity? The first thing is to increase the three-year cycle of the Hungarian beekeeper's national programme by around 24 per cent. Thus, we add EUR 9 360 905 from EU sources and Hungarian resources in the same mirror. This requires the calculation of the compensation for the increased operating costs of bee-keeping vehicles up to a budget of HUF 100 million. We introduced the support for pollination, which meant that last year we paid 500 HUF per bee family, from this year we paid 1000 HUF per bee family. In order to focus attention on the importance of beekeeping activities and to highlight beekeepers from among the workers, we have, for the first time in 245 years, tax-freed the income from beekeeping revenues in Hungary again. What we are trying to do is to make the economic environment, the activity in which beekeepers live a priority, focus on it, and make it attractive for farmers. I hope that this will not solve it, but it will reduce the economic impact and negative impact that the negative European honey market brings with it. Thank you for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-70	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Member Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will respond. Here you go, Congressman. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2020-03-16-71	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For Jobbik, language learning has always played a prominent role, and we have made a number of proposals in recent years to modernise language learning. I am pleased that, for example, the government has taken the first language exam free of charge from us, and this has been achieved. Or just the fact that the government has seen how much damage the requirement to apply for higher education would have caused now, so it has not introduced it. We made all these proposals because the language education of Hungarian public education has serious problems. There is also a shortage of well-prepared teachers and modern language education programs. This is a long-standing problem, one of the findings of which is that there are more than 93,000 so-called stuck degrees in Hungary today, i.e. one where the person did not receive his diploma because of the lack of the necessary language examination. It is important to point out that Jobbik considers language skills to be of paramount importance, and we know that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the Act is an important one. In the 20th century, proper language skills are essential for most graduate jobs. At the same time, taking into account the number of 93 000, it should be asked whether each higher education course really needed the required at least secondary language examination as a requirement. I would not dare to give my own opinion on which of the hundreds of graduates are those where everyday work does not require proper language skills, but this may arise, for example, in the case of kindergarten educators, in the case of social workers or in the case of medical educators. I have mentioned these only because they are areas of absence. Dear Secretary of State, Four thousand teachers are missing from schools, there are 93,000 stuck degrees, and it is also a legitimate question for many that they really needed at least a secondary language exam for each degree. The question arises from these, however, that at least one secondary language exam was required for each graduate job, or that the government was thinking of more differentiation between the different courses than is currently the case. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-03-16-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-73	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We want Hungarian young people to be the winners of the future, and I think we can all agree that the increasingly globalised economy and culture of higher education, as well as the knowledge of foreign languages and cultures, make it essential for Hungarian young people to be the winners of the future. Today, young people need to know a foreign language, language knowledge has become a cultural basis for community life, and I think it is unnecessary to open a debate on this. Honourable Congressman, From 2003 onwards, it has been regulated by law that the language requirement for obtaining a diploma is to obtain a minimum secondary, general B2 level complex language examination from at least one foreign language. Let me also inform you that the Fidesz-KDNP government supports the access of young people in higher education to language exams through several measures. This is what you mentioned, but allow me to mention the possibility of a credit facility for students studying languages, which can be used for the purposes of learning a foreign language and obtaining a language examination certificate by young people with active student rights or who have taken a final exam in a higher education institution, but who do not have a diploma in the absence of a language examination. [[14.10]] The highest amount of the language learning student loan is 500 thousand HUF, which can be taken in a single amount and can be financed by preparation for a secondary language exam. And this year, the government also provides the necessary support for the language exam fee for young people under the age of 35 years, this year, young people who successfully passed their first secondary or tertiary complex language exams can claim HUF 40 250 back. Honourable Congressman, So we think [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That there is a need for language skills in this world that we live in, and that is what we encourage young people to do. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-16-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, How do they ensure that there is hand sanitizer in every nursery, kindergarten, school, social institution? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-03-16-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will deviate from my question because my written question about the situation of the corona virus is changing day by day. Last week, an 18-point recommendation was issued when the government had not yet decided to close schools, but allow me to give criticism, as the Prime Minister said that it is now very good that schools and health institutions operate centrally. I think the government should have made a centralised decision about kindergartens and nursery schools. Yes, it can be said that kindergartens and nurserys are also the maintenance of municipalities, but we can see that the biggest problem is the placement of this age group, because these children cannot remain unsupervised at home, and it seems that the government has now decided to put the responsibility on the municipalities. The majority of municipalities responded very quickly and announced that they also decided to close preschools, nursery schools or operate them with reduced numbers. But one problem has to be discussed: in kindergartens, in nursery schools, parents typically provide cleaning products for children, and they place a huge burden on kindergartens and nursery schools who, after all, decide not to close if the secretary of state, the government, does not make a decision to take responsibility, they say that these institutions must be closed after all. Today's news is that 500 milliliter hand sanitizer can be bought from a manufacturer in Hungary at a purchase price of 3600 forints. There's a shortage of hand sanitizer, you can't buy it, or you can get it at such a brutal price. Mr Secretary, I have repeatedly asked you when the government will intervene and not only to communicate that it will prevent these price explosions, because there is a great need for these products to continue to be available if these institutions remain open and can be obtained for parents at such a price that they can buy them. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-16-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform the Member, the Secretary of State and the House that, since the Member has deviated from the written question, the House Secretary is not obliged to answer, so I must ask you now how you wish to respond to what has been said. [[On Dr. Bence Rétvári's mark:]] Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Many of the speakers in front of you have tried to be constructive in this situation, and you have managed to do so in part, not today. In the previous weeks and months, honourable Member, it was you who said most loudly that kindergartens were in a good place in the municipalities, so the government agreed, and protested against any imaginary plans for the maintenance of kindergartens; and now you have used the word that the government is burdening the municipalities with possible extra decisions or additional tasks relating to kindergartens. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and So far, you have said that this is not a burden, and now you are using such a word; at least you could be consistent with your position. Our position remains unchanged, and we have always believed that it is best for kindergartens and nursery schools to be maintained by local governments in recent years. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] We have increased to a very large extent the amount of money that can be spent on kindergartens and crèches, both for design, expansion and maintenance, and this extra allowance for wage increases, which is expected to be an extra increase for the kindergarten and kindergarten graduates in the second half of this year, as announced earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Local governments may decide to keep the kindergartens open or closed. I also see that most of them have decided to close, and that during the day the state organises babysitting in schools for those for whom this is important, obviously because of work; we try to provide child care in schools in smaller groups. And we're not gonna be able to emphasize that enough. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And you've seen in many places that you can hear the importance of washing your hands, the way you wash your hands on TV every day, and you can't even hear it on the Internet. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I think that browsing or visiting Facebook sites without the government constantly drawing everyone's attention to them, which is equally important in kindergartens, nurserys, workplaces and everywhere else. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Why do we trust that the Government will take over the Coronavír - Fertility? It's an address. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure we can agree that human life is not a game, and if there's a problem, it must be saved, so there's nothing more important than the people's trust in the government at the moment, in your government. This trust is now largely lacking in this country. According to the Prime Minister, both personal, physical and legal conditions are available for the control of the epidemic. We have no reason to doubt the legal framework, because we have seen that two thirds can change the legislative environment very quickly, and they have done so now. However, how can it be believed that there are personal conditions when we know that there are 26,000 workers missing from the sickbeds a year ago; when more and more health workers will be quarantined; when all pensioners will be called back to replace them, so that we know that the pension age group is the most vulnerable age group in terms of the consequences of the virus? You claim, Mr Secretary of State, that the substantive conditions are in place for defence, but that is precisely why the Chamber of Medicine is speaking. They barely run a virus test at home. There's very little protective equipment. Several leaders of the Hungarian Medical Chamber said that full protective equipment is available in very few health institutions, if at all. A man who had recently returned from Italy specifically asked for a test to be carried out, and when he was denied it, he later infected the elderly parents living in the home. In order to prevent and treat pneumonia caused by the virus, it would be very important to have a sufficient number of ventilators available as soon as possible. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how, in addition to the existence of these factors, Hungarian citizens should believe that the government is able to control the virus properly. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you look around not only in the surrounding countries, but in the whole world, from the United States of America to Italy, from Sweden to France, from Germany to Spain, China, you can see that a whole new kind of protection for each country is what this coronal virus epidemic requires, and there are countries that can slow it down, some that are less. We see that many in Italy have expected that after all these days the number of infected and sick will decrease and continue to rise; so we are in a position where the strongest and richest countries in the world, the countries stronger and richer than we are, cannot control the spread of this virus as we all would like. Every country in the world wants to buy protective gear, buy masks. Since their current supply is highly limited and to all other sanitary facilities, the government has decided to switch the prison execution to 20 000 new protective masks every day in the country to the existing 1.1 million-dollar supply. [[14.20]] In order to ensure that all doctors, general practitioners, have the necessary protective equipment at their disposal, we will provide them with public supplies, although operating conditions themselves would require certain protective equipment. According to last weekend's jobs, 3900 boxes of masks have already been taken by GPs, but 1700 masks can still be taken at county rescue centers. If more doctors team up and authorize one of our colleagues, then a colleague can take the masks of the others. From today, in the second round, three special masks can be taken away, also free of charge, from the rescue stations' county centers by the GPs, so that they also have sufficient protective equipment, as the protocols suggest that there should be as few doctor-patient encounters as possible, but if there is such a thing, there should be protective equipment, precisely as you suggested, so that doctors and health workers do not get sick. These are huge and new tasks all over the world, and we are trying to do the best we can. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr President, thank you for your patience.
u2020-03-16-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. These topics, I know, are extremely important, and it is very difficult to keep a two-minute timeframe, but I also respectfully ask the Secretary of State to try and keep this in mind. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: what measures does the government use to strengthen the working conditions of those working in the social field? It's an address. Honourable Member, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-83	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think it is important to start this speech again by thanking social workers for the work that they are currently working superhumanly to keep the boarding institutions open and provide the people there. These questions, which I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, are the questions that the two trade unions concerned have put to the EMMI. I know that Deputy State Secretary Simon is currently negotiating with the EMMI on this issue, but I think it is important that the answers to this be given to the public at the Parliament. The first would be that they are concerned about what the government, as an employer, is doing for their personal epidemiological security. These people equally require that they have different masks and other protective equipment, and they are mainly the elderly and dementia-specific homes - who work with the most vulnerable groups. Therefore, the need for their epidemiological safety to be adequate is essential in the current situation. I'm going on, it's very important that these people... These are people, most of them are women, there are more than 90 percent women in this sector, and most of them are mothers with small children, and their placement is a very, very big problem at the moment. I've received a lot of worried letters about this. It is also very important to talk about how, in cases where the on-call system cannot be maintained, simply because there are not enough people, how additional allowances can be made, and how, at least financially, people who are currently in violation of rules often take several shifts at the same time, without knowing exactly how they will be paid. So I would like to ask you to answer these questions, or, if there has been a successful consultation with the Deputy Secretary of State for the Trade Union, to inform those who are currently doing heroic work in the social sector. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, both in health institutions, especially in St. László's Hospital or in the Kútvölgyi block, in the case of many general practitioners and in the case of workers in the social sphere, there is indeed an increased burden, for which they are highly respected. Their support is also important, because if we see the curve, the course, the course of this infection in other countries, then we can see that there are still a lot of challenges and challenges ahead of us. Therefore, the most important thing is prevention, personal prevention for everyone, and also the fact that each person, if they stay at home, tries to minimise the risk of self or children infecting older people, and, as you said, where many people live in a residential institution, and there the prevention of the introduction of the virus is extremely important, because it can have far more serious consequences than elsewhere. That is why the operational tribe and the officer's doctor decided not only to impose a visitation ban in hospitals but also in residential social institutions. So no one can go in there except the residents and the workers there, and they won't even hire a new one so no one can bring in the infections. In 18 points, the National Centre for Public Health has collected a series of recommendations that are important and safety-enhancing for residents of the social institution. This obviously includes rules on personal hygiene, either frequent soap washes or other different procedures for surface disinfection. This is why it is important that this year's budget law already has a HUF 40 billion higher amount on the social institutional line. If I aggregate state, church and other municipal institutions, that's this year's extra opportunity. Therefore, it is important to raise the reported 14 percent wage [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, it is important that the physician's recommendation state exactly what steps should be taken. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. More important is the enrichment of oligarchs than the protection of nature? It's an address. Mr. Coach-Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, During your period, they're building a flood storage unit that was won by Lőrinc Mészáros' company. When it comes to Lőrinc Mészáros and his developments, we are deeply concerned. We can see what you do at Lake Balaton, when you build luxury apartments, luxury hotels, luxury campings, then there's reed slaughter, there's wood cutting, and green surfaces are reduced. We have also seen Lőrinc Mészáros's companies, how they relate to the environment. At Mátrai Erőmű, Viresol Kft. Last summer he contaminated the Tarna and Bene creek, and the fish died, and then in the autumn he released a gas with a stingy smell, which caused sickness and sickness in several settlements, and he received a very tough fine of HUF 5 million. Now he's building a flood storage at your Tiszakoród. So far, it would be okay, although it's weird that Lőrinc Mészáros's company always wins everything, it's weird that he can build it from 26 billion instead of the estimated 20 billion, but nevertheless Mr Mészáros wants more profits, so he wants to open a mine there instead of many nearby mines, right next to the nature reserve. Dear Secretary of State, or anyone who will respond, we have the Turin dive, also known as the Satmár Niagara, as the locals call it. It's a popular place to relax. They want to open the mine a few hundred yards from there. This is the place that our great poet Sándor Petőfi wrote in his poem Tisza. From this I quote: "Summer Day in Alkotana" / I stopped at the winding Tisza / Where little Touring entered him, / Like the baby's mother's bosom. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, Will they take action against environmental degradation and opening the sand mine in Tsakóród? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-03-16-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Congressman, I did not understand some of your address here because you asked the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister is sitting here. I did not say that anyone else would answer, and therefore he will answer, so I give the floor to Minister István Nagy.
u2020-03-16-89	Thank you, Mr. President, yes. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, The answer to your question is that the enrichment of oligarchs is more important than the protection of nature, I must say, no, not at all. In fact, I have to say that, as life is unique and unrepeatable, it is nature, and that we must protect it, it is an individual universal obligation for all of us, because if we have a responsibility to the future, we must always bear in mind the saying of the farmer that we must treat these belongings in such a way that we have borrowed from our grandchildren so that we can give them back to them in a better state, and if we look at the ministry's activities, we will go in this direction, because let me mention only one very simple example to you. For 40 billion, we are restoring the level of conservation of more than 100,000 hectares of natural land and improving its natural state. So we are making investments that are responsible for protecting the state of our environment. And I have to say to you that in Hungary about 9 percent are protected natural areas and 21 percent of Natura 2000 sites are protected. [[14.30]] The European Commission completed the process of this designation in 2011 because it considered the level of domestic data and designation from the territories to be the first of the Member States to be appropriate. It also shows that Hungary considers this important, follows all such measures, and I can guarantee you that no mine opening will take place in an area that is protected and of value to the future. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-90	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Nagy, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: what means does the Government intend to continue supporting small settlements? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government is committed to the development of Hungarian settlements, especially the development of small settlements. Since 2010, a number of support schemes have been developed and implemented, either for rural development programmes or for regional and local development operational programmes. In order to develop small settlements, in 2019 the government launched the "Hungarian Village" programme, which sets out, among other things, social policy, development policy, national policy and demographic objectives as one of the most important measures in Hungary. The Hungarian village programme is also unprecedented because since the change of regime, the first important programme launched for the uplifting of rural Hungary has been implemented entirely from Hungarian sources. The primary aim of the. The primary aim of the Hungarian village is to strengthen the population conservation power of small settlements, to strengthen and emphasize the benefits of rural and rural life, while also helping to increase the willingness to have children. My own constituency, the 4th constituency of Baranya County, is the largest constituency in the country, which includes 174 municipalities. Of these 171 meet the most tender criteria of the, the Hungarian village, which means that 98 percent of the settlements of the district can develop themselves from this program. In 2019 159 successful applications were announced for the settlements of the Szigetvár-based constituency.The municipalities applying for one of the basic programmes could spend nearly HUF 1.6 billion last year on the development of their settlements. In view of all of this, it is of the utmost importance that we can continue this year with the Hungarian village, thus developing our settlements, so that rural life is not a choice between quality of life, but a choice between lifestyles. Five programme elements have been published so far in 2020. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what means the Government intends to continue to support small settlements. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, is coming to an answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As you have mentioned, the government is determined to improve the quality of life of people living in Hungarian villages and, in this context, to develop small settlements. In order to achieve these objectives, in 2019 we set up the "Hungarian village" programme, which directly affects one third of Hungary's population. As you have also mentioned, the main objective is to improve the quality of life of people living in settlements of less than 5,000 inhabitants and to strengthen rural housing conditions. We believe that this is a unique government initiative, as it provides targeted support for people living in the smallest settlements. In the year 2020, the project's tender scope is based on three main pillars: service development, infrastructure and asset development, while the third is the strengthening of identity awareness. The measures are, in our view, close to each other, able to serve, in their complexity, the purpose that we have set for ourselves. The form of grants is always non-refundable, in the form of a 100% domestic grant, a 100% advance. This year, too, we announce the so-called sub-programmes, five of which have been announced so far: service flats, the development of medical clinics, the purchase of medical devices, municipal road, bridge renovation, bridge construction and municipal sidewalk construction, materials support for pavement renovation. We believe that some of these programme elements are of particular importance in the context of the current emergency. So far, a total of HUF 17 billion has been opened and a total of HUF 50 billion is planned for road renovation this year. We hope that the constituency that you represent can also hope for serious support this year within the framework of this programme, and thank you for all the support you have provided for the programme. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question, "Why is there no more CT in our hospitals?" It's an address. Honourable Member, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you, and now you have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, according to Eurostat data, eight out of ten of our countrymen under 75 die from a disease that could have been avoided by an effective healthcare system, including the correct diagnosis made by the computer tomograph. It is therefore shocking that only nine CT devices were available to one million inhabitants in Hungary a few years ago, with the lowest proportion in the European Union. As you already know, Mr. Secretary of State, there is no CT in the hospital in Marcal, even though the Fidesz MEP József Attila Móring promised in 2014 that the Marcal hospital would become an emergency center, a rescue helicopter landing will be built, and a new CT system will help heal patients. Well, dear fellow Members, we do not need to be a health professional to see clearly that these promises have not yet been fulfilled, and the Fidesz government has deceived us. Meanwhile, a CT device was purchased in Nagyatád, a settlement of less than Marcali. They didn't promise, but they bought it. Dear Secretary of State, I hope we can agree that the CT scan will help heal patients, so I respectfully ask why we don't have any more CT scans in our hospitals. And where there is, why is there no funding available, such as for outpatients in Nagyatad? How much public money has been spent on the CT acquisition of the hospital in Nagyatád? Finally, I am asking you for a long time because we would like to know the answer: what is the reason why Attila Móring's earlier promises, hospital development and CT procurement simply cannot take place in Marcali? We look forward to your reply and ask you to answer these questions. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, it is important that hospitals and health institutions are as well-equipped and well-equipped as possible. This is why the government has decided to provide as much resources as possible, so 91 rural hospitals have been renovated in whole or in part, 54 clinics have been modernised and 107 rescue stations have also been renovated. The CT supply is financed by NEAK funding from HUF 30 billion in Hungary. This amount already provides much more access to CT for Hungarian patients or Hungarian investigators. While 762,000 CT scans were conducted in 2010 for a full year, 1252 in 2018, which means that 76 studies were conducted for a thousand inhabitants in 2010 compared to 128 in 2018. So instead of 76, there are 128 tests per thousand inhabitants. So we're doing a lot more tests. One reason for this is the increase in funding, because there is a much higher, larger framework for CT scans and the other is that there have been countless CTs in recent years. If I look at the state hospitals, there have been 55 CTs and 25 MRs in recent years, but if you are only watching the last six months, honourable Member, there are several hospitals worth 1 billion HUF in Budapest, as well as the Gottsegen György National Institute of Cardiology, the Southern Centrum Hospital or the St. Imre Hospital, which has become richer with new and new modern devices. [[14.40]] Those who live in the care area of the Marcal hospital are available for them at the Kaposi Mor Hospital in Somogy County, and you are also targeted for it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that it was also purchased in the hospital in Nagyatád, this was supported by HUF 95 million, and a 16 slice CT is available to patients who are receiving inpatient care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question, 'Does the Orbán government give up older people or at least support pensioners during the Crown Virus? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Oláh will answer, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, the Democratic Coalition has submitted more than thirty proposals to the government, the tribe, on what steps it would take to make sense here during the epidemic, among which was one of the things that one of its State Secretary-General colleagues told us the previous week that they accepted and did, which was that you imposed a kind of visitation ban in retirement homes, and it was an important step that you accepted and did. We have also made further suggestions regarding our senior senior citizens, and allow me to draw your attention to them. One is that the government should provide local governments with a separate source in order to ensure that pensioners who cannot or do not want to go out during an epidemic, so that they cannot go to the pharmacy or shop, can be better provided; we would like to ask that these resources be made available. The second is that, without the employees of the social sphere, care for the elderly cannot be provided, so we ask that you immediately provide adequate protection for workers in the social sphere. Your work is only appreciated, thanks to this difficult time, and you must ensure that you are protected. Next, we have asked you not to have pensioners in line for the payment of yellow cheques during this period, to resolve it, in consultation with the service providers, so that those who do not pay these yellow cheques in time will not be delayed. We would very much like to ask you to finally make it available so that all pensioners can buy masks at official prices, because at this price, it is priceless, because even if they stay at home, they will not go to a pharmacy or shop, there may still be circumstances [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sure they'll have to see a doctor. Secure these masks; for pensioners, pharmacies, for those working in grocery stores, for those who maintain public interest and public utility operation, a mask should be available at official price. Thank you very much, and I'm sorry.
u2020-03-16-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think if he spoke on behalf of DK and talked about the elderly in relation to the coronal virus, then perhaps most people would have expected to apologize for the way István Vácsó, your fellow politician, is sorry about the elderly and the coronal virus. [[Lajos Oláh: Because you asked for more tests, yes? The president's ringing the bell.]] manifeste in the [[Lajos Oláh: Shame on you! Gergely Arató: Can you answer this for the protection of pensioners to DK? Bravo! Bravo!]] On Facebook, and that's not what you're saying here. As regards the protection of the elderly and pensioners, honourable Member, in order to protect those in the boarding school, the doctor ordered a full visit ban as quickly as possible. [[Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] I don't...
u2020-03-16-102	[[To Lajos Oláh:]] Congressman! [[Lajos Oláh: It must be corrected if it is not...]] Congressman, I'm asking you very nicely not to yell at me. Read the new parliamentary law and house rules [[Lajos Oláh: Show me out!]] And don't force me to react properly. [[Dr. Benedict of Rétvári:]] Here you go.
u2020-03-16-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we have ordered a visit ban and a ban on new patients so that they do not introduce the new infection to any social institution, as far as possible, which is why the doctor has also issued a multipoint recommendation to social institutions on how to protect themselves from the spread of the virus, primarily by hand disinfection and regular hand-washing. There are also a number of tasks for municipalities when it comes to the provision of care to former social food recipients, which must be arranged at municipal level, since social catering is a municipal task. The government raised funds from HUF 29 billion to HUF 79 billion, from this surplus the municipalities have to solve this task and we trust that this surplus will enable them to solve this task in all Hungarian settlements. Exactly because of what you said, that there should be no risk of infection in the doctor's office, that's why we introduced it, and last week, I remember that a regulation in the Gazette came out on Friday afternoon, which allows patients to call the general practitioner, especially the elderly, who are retired, who are digitally prescribed the prescription, so neither the prescription nor the prescription certificate has to be handed over, which may be a further source of infection, and that can be replaced by anyone with their own identity data, given the patient's number. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So the elderly do not need to go to the doctor or the pharmacy, but can do so with the help of a familiar or telephone call, protecting the elderly and reducing the risk of infection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group and MEP Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology:. How does the government address the shortage of workers at Volánbusz Zrt.? It's an address. By answering the question, Mr Group Leader, the Prime Minister has appointed a Minister without a portfolio of Bártfai-Mager Andrea, who is competent according to the subject, and will hear the answer at his request from Secretary of State János Fónagy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The government talks a great deal about how important it is for it to develop rural areas, and it is quite clear that bus transport is not only essential for development but also one of the most important and important infrastructure for managing rural areas, but we do know that this is not a new problem - that Volánbus and the whole sector are in a very difficult situation. Based on the latest data, we know that they put the labour shortage between 300 and 400 people at the Volánbusz, so there are so many skilled drivers missing, and accordingly the workload of existing drivers is enormous. It is also quite clear that this process, the emigration of workers, has not been stopped, and one of the reasons for this is that these people are forced to work for extremely low, humiliating wages in these difficult circumstances, and there has not been any change in working conditions in the past. It is also a very serious and very long-standing problem that the vehicle fleet is extremely poor and in worse condition, and we know that we are also facing a very serious challenge here, the opening up of the market for inter-urban bus and coach transport. The government has talked a lot about national bus production, but this has only been done in trace amounts, and, overall, thousands of buses would have to be replaced in order to be considered as minimally adequate, but there is obviously a huge need for progress here. My question to the Secretary of State is how and with what schedule the government will be able to remedy the shortage of labour on the one hand, and how, in addition to the vehicle purchases that have already been launched, the management of the entire fleet of thousands of buses is expected. Obviously, in the context of current developments in the epidemic situation, we cannot avoid the question of what a reassuring solution they can offer and what reassuring guarantees they can provide both to the travelling public and to drivers in order to provide all the opportunities, means and procedures that can prevent or slow the spread of the epidemic. Thank you very much in advance for the Secretary of State's reply.
u2020-03-16-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to say, with your question, that the situation is far from the way you have viewed it in your question. Let's start with working conditions. Volánbusz employs its employees, including drivers, in strict compliance with domestic and EU rules, as, in addition to the general rules on the working time and rest time of drivers, a number of more stringent rules apply, and these are naturally observed by Volán. By the way, between 2019 and 22, the Volán acquires nearly 4,000 units for approximately HUF 20 billion, the first 352 of which arrived last autumn, and now, these days, even in weeks, new modern buses continue to arrive in different areas. [[14.50]] I am pleased to inform you that this year's wage agreement was reached, which was concluded by the employer on 13 March, resulting in an average 10% wage development. At the same time, the uniform remuneration of bus and coach drivers is achieved, as this also had to be carried out in the two merged companies. What does that mean? This means that they have a gross basic salary of HUF 1460, which, together with the bonus, can reach HUF 2300. This is effective from 1 April, and for the first three months, the company grants a one-off allowance of HUF 100,000 to those entitled to the wage increase. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Finance what economic measures is the Government planning to take to prevent further depopulation? It's an address. Honourable Member, as my former vice-president - the answer will be given by Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-109	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The wave of migration in Hungary today is an increasing challenge. In addition to the large number of workers moving abroad, emigration within the country is also a problem. Unfortunately, we are not only talking about the depopulation of villages, but also the population of some cities and regions is falling spectacularly. In 2018, the population of 194 settlements of the 346 settlements with urban status decreased. By the way, it is not surprising that this phenomenon is characteristic of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, Hajdú-Bihar County and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. There are several factors behind these processes, but the fact that Hungary is Budapest-centred is undoubtedly also making things worse. Our country is more capital-centred than our neighbours. Thus, for understandable reasons, international companies settling and providing employment in our country will focus on the capital and its immediate region when choosing the location of their headquarters. By the way, if we are to prevent depopulation, job creation is obviously a priority, and it is good to take into account statistics here that two thirds of jobs are provided by small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of this, I am asking the Secretary of State what economic measures the government is planning to take to prevent further depopulation of the regions. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If I may, I would like to talk about some of the measures taken and its effects and results. The most important economic policy objective of the Hungarian government is to maintain economic growth in the long term. We are currently one of the most competitive regions in the European Union, and in this respect our strong goal is to exceed the EU's economic growth average by 2 percent. GDP growth rate reached 4.9 percent in 2019. In terms of purchasing power per capita, if we compare the 2009 data when it reached 70% of the EU average, it was 64 percent in 2019 and 52 percent in the 2000s, so we also saw a significant increase here. But the same is true of employment, as you mentioned, because more than 4.5 million people work on the basis of September-October 2019 data, which is 800,000 more than in 2010. Unemployment was at the time over 10 percent, and now it's about 3 percent. Honourable Congressman, EU funds also serve the development and development of these regions. Sixty percent of ten operational programmes are spent on economic development. As regards the two counties mentioned above, the employment rate in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County improved by 18,3 percentage points in the same period and by 15 percentage points in Hajdú-Bihar compared to 2010. Honourable Congressman, On the same path, the government makes decisions on the basis of an economic policy objective in order to improve your question. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: What concrete measures is the MÁV taking to protect the health of rail users and its own workers? Ma'am, I'm sorry, ma'am. I'm sorry, ma'am. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed a Minister without a wallet, Mrs Bártfai-Mager Andrea, who will be asked to answer by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have the floor, please.
u2020-03-16-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A few weeks ago, I asked Mr State Secretary this question, that at a press conference, the operational tribe announced that they would make increased cleaning on MÁV and Volán flights, and that they would take various preventive measures to avoid the spread of the coronal virus on public transport. At that time, Mr Secretary of State said that nearly a hundred body temperature measuring devices would be installed at railway stations, and, yes, this cleaning will be carried out gradually. Secretary of State, we still don't know what these tools are. Where'd they put him? And at larger railway stations, say, the East and West Station, where there are several exits and entrances to the scheduled cars, where were they placed? I haven't seen such tools in the last month; I'm sure I am, Mr. Secretary, in the wrong place. The other very important question is that yesterday the head of the MÁV announced that they are going to actually clean up, they are going to make a top-notch cleanup on railway cars. Secretary of State, you've been talking about this for about a month. The aunt and uncle continue to come with their dirty buckets, their dirty junkies, their empty boxes, wipe the doorknobs, that's all, Mr. Secretary. There hasn't been any high-profile cleaning on the rail cars in the past few days. I would add, with this lack of staff, a lack of employees, this cannot be achieved. My question, Mr. Secretary: where are these body temperature measuring devices placed, who are doing it, and what cleaning are you thinking of now, when, after a month, it has been announced that this will be done gradually by the railway companies? What kind of cleaning can we expect in the next period when Prime Minister told us today that the plague is on our hands now? Are you actually doing these tasks? It's important for us to finally be clear. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-16-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm asking for an acquittal to list all 100 stations. [[He's showing me a card.]] I'd be happy to give it to you. Usually, the person on call, personal checkout, and the customer service provider on duty have the tools you're asking. By the way, as far as complete disinfection is concerned, railway undertakings have now performed complete disinfection, not smooth cleaning, but complete disinfection on railway and HÉV trains with hand sprayers and high pressure hand sprayers. This means so-called closure disinfection, which means complete bacterial, viral and antifungal disinfection. These will kill all pathogens on vehicles. From Monday, so from today we start this complete disinfection on the vehicles of the largest traffic, i.e. the Budapest suburban transport, but this includes the HÉVs and gradually the vehicles of the lower traffic lines. The measure concerns hundreds of vehicles, so by the end of next week I promise you that this type of disinfection will continue. [[15.00]] From Monday, the MÁV also provides hand sanitizer to the public at the largest traffic stations and stop stations in Budapest and the countryside. The railway company cleans railway stations, fittings and operating areas with anti-viral cleaning products. The company and I repeat here provide 77 non-contact thermometers for international ticketers, so not only at railway stations. These are the busiest railway lines 1, 20, 30, 60, 70, 80, 100, 120, 150. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] One more sentence, with all due respect, Mr. President. The MÁV has distributed the unit packages to its employees. In this we issued medical mouth masks, hand sanitizers, rubber gloves, some 1,600 unit packs. The MÁV has a detailed implementation plan. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-16-116	Thank you very much, Congressman, Honourable Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources why the government is attacking doctors instead of helping them do their job? It's an address. Dear House, Since the Member is not in the Chamber, his question is addressed in accordance with the relevant section of the House Rules, under Rule 122. Paragraph 5 of this Article shall be deemed to be withdrawn. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and MEP Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. What is the pension increase enough for? It's an address. On behalf of the Members who asked the question, Mr Péter Ungár will present their question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor, and Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2020-03-16-117	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, more and more people of pension age live, and this will be the case in the next period, so we need to be prepared in the following budgets to give these people as much resources and appreciation as possible. On the other hand, in your ten years, the pension has risen by 2.8 percent this year. With inflation being 4.4 percent and food prices rising by 7 percent, the majority of drug prices increased by more than 7 percent. The fact is that even though the government communicates with different numbers about pensions, it does not communicate with the most important number, which is the purchasing value of pensions. The reason they don't use this number is because the purchasing value of pensions is not so strong that you can put it on different posters. The fact is that the purchasing value of pensions has decreased over the last three years. The LMP has submitted a number of proposals to encourage pensioners to be honoured, including a 2.5-fold increase in minimum pension to HUF 71 250, and Fidesz has so far voted down three times. The fact is that it is not in itself an answer to what was the state of pensions ten years ago. You've been governing for ten years. This means that you are responsible for how much money the pensioners receive and what they can buy from this money, not the governments that preceded it. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have never avoided replying, honourable Member, regarding the increase in the purchasing value of pensions. If you look back at the parliamentary records here, here and here, I think you'll find them dozens of times, too. If you look at it, to date, since 2010, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10.3 percent in the last 9-10 years, so that it does not mean an increase in pensions, because it is higher than 33 percent, that is the value of the purchase value, i.e. the value of pensions in the shops compared to the value of the pension basket. Honourable Congressman, Thus, no one will be able to tell on 16 March the extent of inflation in Hungary until 31 December, but pensioners have always been able to rely on the government. If inflation was lower than planned, the difference between the two was incorporated into their pensions and received not only in that year but also in the following years. If inflation was higher, then in November the difference was paid retroactively for the whole year, and this difference was incorporated into the next year's pension. In addition, we tried to increase their income for pensioners with a pension premium, Erzsébet voucher, a return card and a one-off allowance. Overall, this was about HUF 270 billion, which we have given to pensioners as such in recent years. And why it is relevant, honourable Member, that what happened before 2010 was because all of you who are in opposition are in a political bloc, and the leader of that political bloc is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who carried out economic policy and made decisions before 2010 [[Defiance from the dialogue.]] You can laugh about it now, but the pensioners didn't laugh when they took a month's pension from them. Everyone can see that there is a policy that can increase the value of pensions, give extra benefits to pensioners, and there is a united opposition, who, as leader of the opposition, is standing there, who, in turn, has reduced pensions in Hungary in the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period to the only heads of government since the change of regime, which is why there is indeed a very serious consequence of who is leading this country. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-16-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. Now we move on to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Jakab and Ms Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has given Minister István Nagy the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask Mr. Group leader whether he will accept the person of the responding party or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-03-16-121	I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has given Minister István Nagy the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-123	Mr President, Dear House, I am trying to take this opportunity to shift Parliament's work towards a kind of moment of grace, because we are living critical hours, and I honestly believe that we need all kinds of policy solutions that all political communities can stand up to, and that every political community can capacitate its own sympathizers to follow these common national rescue paths. That is why I listened with great interest to the Prime Minister's response to the question concerning the situation of our fellow countrymen who today do not know how and in what form they will receive their salary, who do not know that they can hold any revenue as service providers or entrepreneurs in the coming weeks and months. I believe that the emergency signals are also coming to Minister, Secretary of State and fellow Members. It would not be far from me, Prime Minister, in peacetime, to think that we should try to keep jobs and not get settled in order for the Hungarian state to stand up in every respect. However, if you like, we are living in a quotation mark, and we are living in a wartime, when the most important thing is to try to ensure security towards our fellow countrymen, in view of the circumstances, that there are some things that we cannot change, and that is not expected of the government. But what we do know, let's do it together. This is why Jobbik proposes a Hungarian employment protection fund, to which our largest economic operators, by paying the budget or by making pro rata payments from multi-company companies, could last for a period of 3-6 months, both in terms of hard-to-farm salaries and in terms of entrepreneurs who could not generate their own income in this dramatic situation or even in terms of their employees' wages. That is why the question arises: is the Minister, Mr Secretary of State, open in this direction, so that we can at least guarantee this security for our fellow countrymen, since we are living such dramatic, so critical hours? Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[15.10]]
u2020-03-16-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-16-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for the tone you have asked, because, indeed, at such times, we need to work together and how we can think together and together create the opportunity to meet the challenge of the virus against people's health and life and, as a result, against the Hungarian economy, the right answers to be given. It wasn't like that. We go on a road where we face a new and new situation every day. I can tell you the intention. The first is the protection of human life. Prime Minister also announced that there is an open fund from above. There can be no material reason for protecting human life and helping to protect it and for as few people to face viral infection as possible. The other thing is that, after all this, when this disease is now just about its individual nature, its infection, and then the group level, what it causes the economy and how we can handle it. At present, what we are trying to do is move forward on the way we can provide economic recovery aid that will protect jobs, because here we need to take care of not only today, tomorrow, two weeks, because right now... This is what my fellow Member is pushing to do with those two weeks, but what we need to say is what will happen in the year, years and long term. I have to say to you that this is precisely why the task force responsible for relaunching the economy has been entrusted, which is why the Minister of Finance has to redesign the budget and propose how we can transfer funds in order to put the Hungarian economy on the path that can respond adequately to these challenges. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-03-16-126	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-127	Dear Minister, I don't dispute his good intentions, and let's make that clear. But I'll give you a lifelike example. In the hotel he is a Hungarian worker cleaning in the form of a business. Over the next few months, 100,000 percent is that he won't have a salary or income. At best, he'll keep his job, but he won't get paid. At the same time, he has to pay rent in many cases because he lives in a flat somewhere. His children must not only be guarded, but also, where appropriate, provided with support. So what we see is that there are typical life situations where solace cannot wait. This is why, in many cases, Jobbik has shown proactivity and cooperation, whether in terms of the border closure or in terms of the decisions of the last days, I am thinking of school closures - there is another one where this quoted market segment should be reassured by hundreds of billions, and by standing up and telling them that their livelihoods are guaranteed, their children cannot starve in Hungary, they cannot be evicted in Hungary. We have no obligation to guarantee that, and I am not at liberty to do so.
u2020-03-16-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-129	You are right, Mr President, and you can see from this, from your example, and if we stand up one by one, we could all give such examples. And if we stand up tomorrow, we can give you more examples tomorrow. What I can tell you is that the government is working with all its power to find answers to these questions, because it is also an answer to how we can relocate these workers. After all, we have to face the fact that the example you have set, tourism, is collapsing, because there is such a decline in travel restrictions that this sector needs to be dealt with in particular, and within days, in connection with the re-launching of tourism, the government will present a programme in connection with its recovery. Please trust the government, it's working on a solution to the issues you've raised. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-130	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what happens now? It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to his absence. I do not have to ask the question any longer, Mrs President, she indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Two, my single constituency, the 18th. I'd like to ask you a question about the district. Yesterday turned out to be the 18th. Unfortunately, the patient who died first in Hungary as a registered coronal virus patient was registered as such. I ask you, is it true that this patient was lying at Jahn Ferenc Hospital with pneumonia for days? Second question, why didn't you do it earlier, why didn't you do a coronal virus test on this patient on Saturday night, so why did you delay so much? My third question is, since it turns out he was infected, have you found out who he was in contact with, how many contactees there are, what's going on with the people he's been in contact with, and where exactly are these contactees? The people you've been in contact with, doctors, nurses, have you tested them yet, have you tested the coronal virus? And finally, on this subject, I would like to ask you, if the hospital of Jahn Ferenc Hospital in South Pest, responsible for the care of 400,000 people, could accidentally fall out of care, which would be a very big problem, then which institution will take over the supply of hundreds of thousands of people, XVIII. Districts and South-Pest people, too. The second area is the airport. I would like to ask why it is possible that France, Germany, Switzerland, Spain and 39 of the most infected countries in Europe arrived without delay yesterday, and today there are 52 flights. Passengers can leave the Liszt Ferenc Airport without checking and carrying out the most basic tests. Budapest Airport is prepared, as they say they have a value of HUF 100 million in protective equipment, thermal cameras, body temperature measuring devices, but according to them there was no request from the operational tribe to carry out stricter checks. Why didn't the operational tribe give orders to Budapest Airport? The control of passengers and crew of each flight shall be ordered by the authorities and shall not be decided by the airport on its own initiative. Why is the operational tribe delaying its release? Thank you very much for your answer.
u2020-03-16-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-16-133	Thank you very much for asking. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, First of all, I am deeply sorry for the family who mourns the death of the deceased, because the first dead during the outbreak of this epidemic is certainly tragic and tragic and sufficient. It is a warning to us that all human beings must take all these protective measures, preventive measures, and this death should be a warning sign that these things must be taken seriously by all of us. At a time when we are talking about voluntary home quarantine, when we are talking about complying with the different rules, we should all take it very seriously for our own good and for our responsibilities towards each other. I must say to you that, yes, this patient was lying there, and they are now working according to the protocol; according to the WHO protocol, every measure of Hungarian health is taking place. This is subject to strict rules. So there's no other way of accrediting the whole question, and it would raise a credibility problem if it didn't, so it all goes according to the WHO protocol. They're looking for contact persons, of course, and they're taking all the measures required by this WHO protocol. And to your question about the airport, I can tell you that you have just received the answer in your speech before the Prime Minister's agenda, that Hungary is closed from midnight, so no strangers can enter here. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Does this apply to the airport?]] This applies naturally to the airport, as it is also the territory of the country, and it is not possible to enter the territory of the country from now on.Today Hungary, Ferihegy and the border will be closed completely from midnight. So I can't. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: This has not yet been said.]] Therefore, you have the answer to your question. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-134	Thank you very much, Minister. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-135	To be precise, you claim that in your opening statement today, Prime Minister, you said that you will close from midnight, not only the borders will be closed, but the airport will also be completely closed and confirmed. And basically only Hungarian citizens can come home through the airport, and no one else can travel by air anymore? [[Dr. István Nagy: That is also a border. Tamás Menczer: International passenger transport is closed in all respects.]] All right, then we're clear on that. Then, as to my other question, why the test on this gentleman was not carried out in time, I unfortunately did not get an answer to that question. Let me add something. I would like to ask that everyone who feels sick should be tested in Hungary, and we would urge that Hungary apply at least 100,000 new tests, because I think this is very dangerous. [[15.20]] The tests must not be carried out because of what the Prime Minister said to prevent the disease, but to slow down its spread. I mean, we shouldn't be looking for so many contact persons right now if they're doing the test at Jahn Ferenc Hospital on time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Plus, it's a man with a lung problem. Finally, I am sorry, not only should it be an accredited lab, but also more in Hungary, where tests are carried out. Mr. President, I'm honored by your patience. Thank you.
u2020-03-16-136	Thank you very much. It was a pleasure to honor you. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-03-16-137	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, As it became clear from the conversation during his speech, Hungary has clearly closed its borders from international passenger traffic, and this is, of course, also valid for the airport in Ferihegy. And to your second observation, which you have made, I must say to you that the experts in the operational tribe are working hard. Every minute new challenges, new information, and new information are being made with this new information. It is not by chance that press conferences take place day by day, hour by hour, to reassure the public that we can provide the public with credible information. Forgive me if I will not be able to answer exactly your question, since it can only be done by the director of the hospital or by the operational staff. I think you're gonna get these answers without further ado, and I'm gonna give them to you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] accept those relevant to the airport and this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Ágnes Kunhalmi: I can only ask questions here. Thank you.]]
u2020-03-16-138	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató and Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, representatives of DK, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman Gergely Arató, You're gonna tell me, if you give me the opportunity, that's an immediate question. The Prime Minister has given Minister István Nagy the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for an answer personally.
u2020-03-16-139	No.
u2020-03-16-140	Thank you very much. Therefore, Congressman has indicated that the Prime Minister is personally required to answer. Mr Prime Minister, honourable Member, you will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. The congressman remained standing because he knew that he was the subject of the next immediate question. Dear House, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you take responsibility for not carrying out enough tests to prevent a coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. Prime Minister István Nagy gave the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-03-16-141	Yeah.
u2020-03-16-142	Thank you very much. Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Gergely Arato, please.
u2020-03-16-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We have seen many cases in recent years when Hungarian citizens returning from abroad, who have noticed the symptoms of the corona virus themselves, came to St. Laszlo's Hospital, but they were sent away because that country was not yet on the list of government from which patients were not allowed to come. For example, there were cases where Iranian student groupmates applied for examination. They weren't tested, and then one day after that, they were taken in an ambulance for the same test, and I could continue. Perhaps the most serious of these is what happened in the days when the patient diagnosed with the coronal virus at John's Hospital was not first tested for the necessary coronal virus on medical personnel and nurses, saying that they had not yet shown symptoms. Of course, I understand that this is because of the protocol that you have issued, but the thing is, as the epidemic progresses in the world, these protocols are updated everywhere. The WHO's initial protocol turned out not to have worked. The countries that followed this protocol, such as Italy, were extremely rapid in the spread of the epidemic; the countries where the protocol was not followed, but carried out much more rigorously and widely than South Korea, were able to control the epidemic relatively quickly, and the number of deaths was much lower. I am talking primarily about health care workers because we all know how long they can do their job, whether they get sick, is important not only for their personal fate, but also for the security of the whole care system. So I'd like to ask you, I know you've changed protocol, but this protocol now also requires screening of medical personnel in contact with patients. And who takes responsibility for not having a sufficient amount of tests done for a month? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-03-16-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Minister István Nagy, if you will.
u2020-03-16-145	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Listening to the speeches of the whole day, you get the feeling that we are on an untraveled path. After all, if an international organisation is forced to modify the protocol, if the WHO is forced to see that it has to change, because life brings it so that a rapidly changing situation makes it necessary to change it, then it is necessary to change it, but in order to take responsibility for what happened the day before, it is not possible to take responsibility on the next day, because good intentions and knowledge that day matter. Everyone uses the best of their knowledge to make them work. Allow us, in cooperation with you, to express the thanks that health care workers do every day, because they are on the front line, and they are fighting with all their might. And what they are doing is very honorable, and may the good Lord grant them that they can endure there for a long time, for it is in our best interest that they can provide it properly. I have to tell you, every hospital employee has it now, and I can absolutely guarantee that, with the proper protective equipment, I can say that. There can't be anyone who doesn't have that. And that's how we can protect their health, protect their strength, and protect people who, on suspicion of infection, get in there to receive the proper care, or get this infection, to recover from it, to return to their daily lives, because it's in everyone's best interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-146	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-16-147	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Unfortunately, I must say that you have been misinformed or misinformed. You say that all hospitals have protective equipment available. I've got yesterday's letter from a county hospital telling me that you can't get protective equipment from the warehouse, that you can solve the classes with what you have at your disposal. What you have at your disposal is nothing. So I have to say, unfortunately, it's not as good as you think. We'd prefer to have protective equipment everywhere. However, I am obliged to ask you this, because we talked less about testing, and this is not yesterday, but the problem of last month, that if, in the case of Minister of Interior, Mr. Sándor Pintér, correctly, after handshaking an infected person, the investigation was ordered if he informed us of the result, I would be happy, it would certainly reassure the country - then, in the case of doctors and nurses who continuously nursed a person who was sick in a coronal virus and not just one, we know of several such cases - why they do not consider the same investigation necessary. [[Applause from the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-03-16-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Nagy Minister is also entitled to a one-minute reply. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-149	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, Once again, I must say that adequate protective equipment is available everywhere, both in the hospital and in the medical supply depot. So everyone has access, and it is the responsibility of each hospital manager to make these protective equipment available to all his employees. Because in order to protect them, they can explain the activity that is necessary to make us feel safe, it is very necessary. With regard to Minister Pintér, I can tell you that it was also according to the WHO protocol that he had to be tested, and I can report to you that on the same basis we are conducting this test on doctors who are in contact with contact persons. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.30]]
u2020-03-16-150	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who is responsible, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask you, Mr. Group Leader, whether you will accept the person of the responding party or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-03-16-151	I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister personally. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-16-152	Thank you very much. Mr Fraction Manager, I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the issue of the emergency. I would also like to inform you that Prime Minister István Nagy has appointed Minister as a reply, and I have noticed that he accepts the person who is responding. [[Peter Ungár: That's right!]] Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Minister, in agreement with the fact that there is basically a very large individual responsibility in the current epidemic situation, and that it must work with almost everyone in every authority and government decision in order to contain this somewhat, it is necessary to prepare for the possibility that someone will not do so on purpose. I know you can't advertise competition between countries, but if there are good practices elsewhere, it can be taken over. I would therefore like to ask you first that we will take over from Israel the method that those who are in official home quarantine will be checked by national security services by triangulation and monitoring electronic devices to ensure that they do not leave this or set up a signal system in case they leave home quarantine in such a case. I think that an emergency can address the various civil rights concerns of this. My other specific question concerns the fact that a lot of municipalities have indicated that they have to bear a lot of extra costs, as a matter of fact, because this situation has stood up. To give an example, there are local governments that have undertaken to arrange a delivery of medicines to chronic sick citizens over 65 years of age. In fact, there is a municipality called the II. a district, for example, which said that the deadline for payment of taxes on businesses and communal taxes would be extended until May. They appear as additional costs, as appropriate, in the budget of the municipalities. The Minister knows exactly what it's like to plan a municipal budget, and what it's like. I would therefore ask how these municipalities can count on the government's help when they have to do these sensible extra spends. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-16-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, There is indeed a great responsibility for all of us, and there is a great responsibility for each government agency, along with its co-operative offices. We also have to admit that we all have a lot of responsibility, personally, as to how we comply with the standards that are being made in our behalf. We have seen the bad Italian example, which has greatly helped to enrich and spread the epidemic. I must say that we must learn from those mistakes and take on good practices. The sense of responsibility, the sense of responsibility in all of us is infinitely important. I don't know if we're going to take this Israeli example. The experts are here to decide, to examine, that the Hungarian technology system is suitable for this to be implemented. What I do know, however, is that the guards of the Hungarian order control the persons under quarantine. An example has been that he has been escorted in, and he is obviously facing serious punishment for leaving this quarantine, and such a situation cannot be caused because of the danger to the public. This bad example will also have to be a lesson to others that it is really necessary to follow seriously all the precautions that the Hungarian government is taking. Municipal extra costs for various commitments. I must say that for now, we are at the point of asking the question of how I can help you. For now, we are about how we can help each other, how we can take care of each other, and then we are going to settle. By then, it is certain that the way, opportunity, and decisions will be taken to determine how and how such questions can be resolved. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-16-156	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-157	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. My proposal on the Israeli example will be made to the specialised services at the closed meeting of the National Security Committee tomorrow. I think this is the professional forum that Minister would propose in this case. On the other hand, I can say that, in my opinion, this means that all municipalities should do whatever they can in the present situation. They are encouraged to bear additional costs, even if this will significantly exceed their current economic performance. Once again, I say that the delivery of medicines may or may not be possible, or in connection with the delivery of food, which can help ensure that the healthcare and social care system is not overloaded, no matter what happens next time. But then I hope that the Minister and the government will also interpret this to the local government leaders. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-159	Thank you very much. You are absolutely right, Mr President, that you can put that technical solution, on the one hand, and a proposal, on the other hand, in that committee. Obviously, as a result of that opinion, the operational tribe will also look at the possibility of using it. With regard to the responsibility of the municipality, I must tell you that the capacities that are available must and must be used. I think that the delivery of medicines should not be a lunatic cost that could not be solved by a budget transfer to anyone. Technically, what I am waiting for and counting on, and I am telling you quite frankly, is that in an emergency, the number of volunteer offerings and assignments in the population increases. So now they will come, now they will have to wake up the intentions, the actions that will motivate people to do good things, and the deliveries, shopping, helping each other, the attention in the framework of the "care of each other" will now be possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-160	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. The Prime Minister has given Minister István Nagy the right to reply because of his absence. [[Bence of Turda: Yes.]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Trust in political leadership is one of the keys to a successful defense against the Crown Virus. But that trust must be earned, and that trust is easy to squander. We try to maintain that trust, but it's not easy. It is not easy when they regularly make counter-fact statements to put it mildly, such as Viktor Orbán on Friday morning, when he said that teachers should be sent on unpaid leave if there is no teaching. Or it is not easy to maintain this trust when instead of being honest, they answer arrogance-covered lies to journalists, as Zoltán Kovács did on Sunday. It is not easy to maintain trust even when we hear untruths about protective equipment available to health workers as if there were examples - and instead of being honest, the Hungarian Medical Chamber is being attacked by the Ministry. It is not easy to maintain confidence when instead of extensive testing, we see the Chernobyl effect in practice, when completely inadequate measurements after commenting on the results say that it is not good but not tragic. We're low on measurements, so we're short on infected. We know from the models that there are about eight hundred people who are actually infected for a death, compared to that, we hear these 30s. It is not good for trust when non-functioning solutions are communicated very confidently, for example, about the completion of quarantines for foreign arrivals or health control, the measurement of fever at borders, which is supposed to cover everyone, and then it turned out to be far from that. My question to the Minister is that we can expect a change in the government's communication, and the government will continue to provide the necessary confidence in the emergency. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister István Nagy, please respond. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-16-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, trust is very, very important. I'm matured with a very, very serious wording. We have a danger on our hands, a very serious challenge that endangers people's lives. [[15.40]] Human words are often more dangerous than... Is the virus dangerous, but do you understand what I'm saying? ! So our words can cause very serious problems and problems. It is therefore very, very important what, how, when and how we say it. So it takes a lot to make whoever says it look authentic; whoever says it should tell the truth; who says it says it so that anyone who listens will believe it and calm down. And here comes the responsibility of all of us on a regular basis. There is a problem when politics and the potential for political gain, as much as possible, and that is why I put it this way - we are trying to push it as far as possible, and we are able to say that we have to shoulder our responsibilities in order to overcome this challenge. After all, man's life is once and never repeated, and we already have one loss. And it wouldn't be good to have a lot more. For it is a responsibility to all of us that we owe each other, because life is one time and unrepeatable. So I'm asking everyone to be able to convey, in their words, their actions, their confidence, their credibility, to take measures, to take decisions through society. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 'Cause we're on a path we haven't been on before, so, yeah, one day we might not be going the right way, but then we have to say, yes, we have, and we have to go to the other, and people have to come with us, and they know that we're doing it for them, for their sake. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-164	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Mr. Bence Tordai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-16-165	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for this attitude and for these wise thoughts. I wish every member of the government would do so. After all, we obviously do not dispute good intentions. What I've been problematizing is the political reflexes on which some people seem to find it very difficult to overcome. I appreciated from you, for example, in your reply to the previous question, when you said honestly that I do not know this; that this will be examined by professionals and whether this is a useful tool or not. If we could hear more of this at government press conferences, we'd feel that we could be calm or have more reason to be calm. To bring a negative example to the positive: when Csaba Dömötör says that I provoked civil disobedience, when all I talked about on Friday is that parents can keep their children at home, if they see this as the best solution that everyone has said for days, and what the government has finally taken as an official position for that evening - I have just followed the responsible attitude, and I believe that we cannot argue with each other, nor can the government argue with opposition parties. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-16-167	Thank you very much. Good decisions require proper information, proper experience, and not being in a situation where we just say that the school has to be closed, the children have to go home, and then a thousand such questions come up immediately to pay the teachers, not pay the teachers, what will happen to the children, will graduate, will be valid for the school year, and there could be a lot of such questions. Instead, you need to find the answer that the training will continue in a digital version outside the classroom. From now on, we've given you the answer to thousands of questions, detail questions with a decision. Then there's pay for teachers, it's working hours, it's gonna be a valid school year, kids can graduate, and they can move on in the normal way. But to do so, it takes time, time to think about it, and to do so, we need a political environment that supports us, which helps us to make these decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-168	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What measures will we take to combat the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. It is for Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-16-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Lords and Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the latest data, the number of infected people in Hungary has increased to 39, including 9 Iranian, 1 British and 29 Hungarian citizens. In the new cases, the epidemiological investigation and contact research, carried out by the epidemiological authority in cooperation with the police, shall also be immediately initiated in accordance with the procedures issued by the national chief of staff. However, the most we can do is to control the spread of the coronal virus by ourselves, by individuals. We would like to ask all Hungarians to help the work of health and law enforcement bodies by complying with the proposals made by the operational tribe, recommendations and compliance with the legal requirements imposed in the event of an emergency. The regulations and recommendations formulated by the operational tribe and the National Centre for Public Health are also intended to protect ourselves and thus our immediate family members, friends and society as much as possible against the spread of the coronal virus. Yesterday, the first death occurred in Hungary in the coronal virus epidemic. Allow me to express my condolences and condolences to the relatives here on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to asking everyone and the elderly to comply with the proposals and recommendations, I would like to ask what further measures we will take to combat the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-170	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As you said, in such an epidemic, there are completely different rules for everything and everyone than usual. This is also indicated in our legal system by an emergency, which is an extraordinary legal order, when the functioning of the entire public sector can be regulated in a completely different way, doctors can be controlled, and laws can be made easier on the part of the Prime Minister, precisely because the state has to react differently. So the course of this infection is completely different, as it is an epidemic, as with any other disease that we have become accustomed to in recent years, decades, in our own lives. You have to take a different approach to this, and therefore you have to shape your own lives differently, you have to step out of your routine, your usual everyday activities. Our daily lives need to be managed differently, and our meetings and meetings with our colleagues, family members, acquaintances need to be shaped differently. The most important thing, indeed, is the protection of elderly people, our parents, the protection of our grandparents, so that they do not leave their homes as much as possible; this is obviously the greatest task for children, relatives, friends, acquaintances, to help them not to get into a situation where they can receive it. Obviously, the state has opportunities here, and we have talked about it today, and we will also talk about how to change the rules or other rules to reduce the risk of infection for the elderly even more. However, it is an important measure on the part of the government to cancel, ban all mass events, introduce digital working arrangements in schools, suspend direct teaching in higher education, limit border traffic and any other measures that limit personal relationships in restaurants, cafés, entertainment venues, bars to a minimum, because this is the most we can do at the moment for our own health and the health of all Hungarian citizens. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We do not know who is carrying this infection, they may be on the bus, tram, street, metro, anywhere, these encounters must be avoided, this is the most important for everyone, this is shown by the example of other countries, which are already in a much more difficult situation than Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Again, I can only say that questions are very important, and they are very difficult to explain in two minutes, but the timeframe is mandatory for everyone. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi for the rejoinder. Here you go. [[15.50]]
u2020-03-16-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I would like to highlight from this our tasks for older people. We all know that our parents, the generation of our grandparents, have experienced and survived a great deal, they have a very difficult time giving up their independence, and it is very difficult to get them to rely on us now. I have spoken here with a number of fellow Members, and we agree that our parents, the generation of our grandparents, feel bad about being exposed to the so-called younger generation. Therefore, let us be steadfast, and let them understand that it is in our interest that we all remain at home, trusting ourselves and trusting us, trusting us to get everything they need, and then getting it, and bringing it to them. I would also like to encourage everyone to be steadfast and persistent in this regard. Secretary of State, thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-03-16-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary of State has the word for rejoinder.
u2020-03-16-175	Thank you very much. And it is also important to observe the simple thing in everyday life, as is true, the more frequent hand washing, because by washing your hands in a very large proportion, almost completely, if it is really thoroughly seen in various small films, we do this on the Internet as well as on TV, we very much eliminate the fact that we carry this virus to others or infect ourselves. It is also important, and I myself have seen this in many shops in many rooms in the last few days when it was limited to a maximum of two people, or two customers, or two customers in that airspace, and in most cases I have seen people do so patiently. It is important that when a person is in line, they also leave more space there, so they should not stand tight, but people should stand at least one meter apart when they are in line. In addition, the Government has decided on ten special responsibilities and action groups that are responsible for the development of defence or post-protection economic plans. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The people of Kiskunhalas and the people in the area expect answers about the construction of the disease hospital that has just been announced. Honourable Member, Prime Minister István Nagy has given the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Gergely Wolf nodds.]] Thank you so much for letting me know you're okay with it. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor, please.
u2020-03-16-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Yesterday, at the press conference of the operational tribe, it was announced that a so-called epidemic hospital would be built in Kiskunhalas, in the district and centre of my constituency. On Jobbik's part, we have said here that it is important not only to take professional steps, but also to provide information. We feel that not only we, but also thousands of people from Kiskunhalas and the neighborhood, have not been fully informed in this case either yesterday or this morning's press conference, even though we know very well that every hour, every minute that keeps people in doubt increases their concern and uncertainty in such a situation. That is why it is very important to clarify a few things, and I would like to ask you a few questions to this end, confident that we will be given a reassuring answer. The first question is how the Kiskunhalas site was selected. I know that in Bács-Kiskun county, the Halas hospital is designated as an epidemiological hospital, but it is certain that a settlement in the periphery is the best choice for the country, it would not have been more logical to find a place in Budapest, which is the country's headquarters, and the vast majority of infections are connected; I think there is also a public area in Budapest. Question is, where are the medical staff coming from in Kiskunhalas? It's only a question because if it comes from somewhere else, I'm gonna miss it from somewhere else, so that's a legitimate question. The question arises as to how this notification affects the infectious department of the Halas hospital. Hundreds of hospital workers and patients and their relatives are interested in moving out of the class or staying in the Halas hospital. If they stay, how will the treatments be distributed, and what guarantees the hospital's absence of infection? The question is whether the hospital is going to have national jurisdiction, or rather, they'll only be transporting patients from the surrounding counties, suspects of infection. And perhaps what affects Kiskunhalas the most is how to prevent them from increasing the risk of an epidemic by workers and patients in the disease-free area so far. What reassuring precautions can you provide for the Kiskunhalasians, which guarantee that workers there will not spread the epidemic in and around the uninfected settlement so far? I look forward to your reassuring answers. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-16-179	Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity, Mr President. Honourable House! My dear fellow Member, This is when words also have very serious significance and effect. Yesterday, it was decided, given that the virus epidemic and the infection itself are likely to occur from individual infections, because this natural order of the spread of the infection will be passed to the group infection stage in practically one month, an appropriate response should be given. A decision has been made. The decision affected the place, the location, the how, when, how, it will follow. And just as they received the correct information and credible information about yesterday's first decision, they also naturally receive the following steps, because the man who leads this task force is a highly respected man, and he has the opportunity to pull up this container hospital very quickly as a public investment, because it must be built and operated, but this is the next set of decisions. One thing I can tell you is that all the inhabitants of Kiskunhalas can be assured that they will not meet with this situation, because the person who is sick will naturally have their own protocol again, and not in the way that would have created an emergency for the citizens of Kiskunhalas. All possibilities have been examined by the operational tribe, and for the existing options to be implemented very quickly, with permits, that location will be suitable, which is why this will be done there. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-180	Thank you very much, Minister. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Farkas.
u2020-03-16-181	Thank you very much. Thank you for the comforting words at the end of your reply. I think that's what the Kishunhalasians are most interested in, although I would add that they are still a question, and I have received these questions, too, so that the workers there can be separated, because it's not expected that the workers will move in there, and they won't come out. However, the rest of my questions were partly about past decisions, so I cannot fully understand the Minister's words, because I think we can at least explain why Kiskunhalas was chosen. This decision has already been made and the relationship with the hospital in Kiskunhalas will be maintained by this new epidemic hospital, and I believe that it is already planned at least. So I'm confident that I can get an answer to these questions in rejoinder right now, or I'm asking you to do so for the sake of the Kiskunhalas and the people in the area. Trust me, it's good for you, too. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] if people do not worry unnecessarily, but can take comfort in this situation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-183	Thank you very much. It's perfectly natural for questions to arise. Rightfully. Every person living there can ask whether a new institution will be created near our settlement, then how it will work, how, it will pose a threat to me or not. I have to tell you that when it comes to deciding that we know very well that by the nature of the virus, in a month's time, the group infection will be pounding, and the ability to set up a proper quarantine will require space. There was no other way around Budapest, as a prompt, immediate solution in the country, where this can be built with its own technology, the experts know this, because it is built in other parts of the world - there, in Kiskunhalas, we found a state area where it can be built in immediate execution, by the time the need arrives, by the time the answer is received, the answer is right here, a container hospital that can serve the prevention and quarantine of the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2020-03-16-184	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How do we protect the elderly? It's an address. Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has been appointed to respond. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman István Hollik has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the statistics available to us show that the corona virus, this global epidemic, is most likely for the elderly, for people whose immune systems are weakened and the most dangerous for people suffering from chronic diseases. These statistics also show that those over the age of 65-70 have a drastic increase in mortality rates. Therefore, we must say that in these times of distress, special attention must be paid to our elderly countrymen, and their protection is the most important task. It can be said that 8 million out of 10 million Hungarians are not threatened by this virus, because it passes through it, but 2 million older people are in great danger, so it is important to pay particular attention to them. We should also note that, in such an extraordinary situation, it is not sufficient merely to take government steps, but that each Hungarian citizen has his own responsibility, and this should be brought to the attention of all our countrymen. We need to help our older relatives and friends with active care and reducing their exposure to the environment, so that we can make a major contribution to maintaining their health. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to summarize how we protect our elderly during the period of the epidemic, and what measures we use to protect those health workers who are over 65 years old and who may be at the greatest risk. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-186	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds, as I have already mentioned. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-16-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, most attention must now be paid to the elderly on everyone's part. That is why, in the second half of last week, the government has already launched a campaign to draw attention to exactly what the Member said that the elderly are in the greatest danger, and therefore most attention, concern, and mercy should also be directed towards them. It was part of the awareness-raising process. The second part: obviously there is an increased risk of infection if you have to go to a doctor's office for a healthy elderly person, therefore medicines that do not require direct contact can be prescribed by telephone by the general practitioners since last Friday. If it is written electronically, it will be sent to the electronic space from which this prescription can be called at any pharmacy. It is not necessary to take the prescription certificate to the pharmacy, nor to go to the old man, but the elderly person gives his farm number, and it is obvious what medications the person in charge of it should be able to supply him with children, relatives, neighbors, acquaintances, friends - then he can bring it to the elderly person by declaring his farm number and giving his personal details. There is a visitation ban, not only in hospitals, but also in social institutions, precisely to minimise the risk of infection in elderly people there. We also tried to provide all the equipment in hospitals, but in addition, there is enough material in the laboratory capacity for thousands of samples. There are 22 million pairs of rubber gloves that can be used in hospitals, more than 1.1 million surgical masks, of which we try to produce about 20,000 more each day in prison, and 2-2 thousand respirators and anesthetic machines are also available. In other countries, we have seen that these may be very necessary in later stages. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman. Here you go, Congressman Hollik.
u2020-03-16-189	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I think it also shows that the government and the authorities concerned, especially health workers, doctors and nurses, take seriously the threat of a coronal virus epidemic and are doing everything they can to stop and slow down its rapid spread. I think that the measures on drug substitution were extremely timely, and I had personal experience when I went into a pharmacy that it worked very well. The elderly are grateful for this. I agree with my fellow Member, Gabriella Selmeczi, that it is difficult for older people to ask their children and grandchildren for favors, but they are doing so now, and I see that this opportunity is being used by many people; I myself have taken the medicine of my grandparents, my grandmother. It's a very useful thing. I think that the only way we're going to be able to fight the corona virus effectively is if everyone sees their own responsibility in this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-190	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In order to prevent further outbursts and thus the risk of infection, it is important that the certificate of entitlement to public health care is extended during the period of emergency and even lasts 90 days thereafter, so there is no need to deal with public health certificates during the emergency. It is also important that those who are eligible for increased and high-priority medications and medical aids on the basis of a specialist's proposal do not need to renew this proposal, but that it is also automatically extended until the end of the emergency and 90 days thereafter. We have also tried to keep the encounters and events of various new infections to a minimum. Let everyone live with this and try to stay at home with their individual responsibilities and to slow down the spread of the epidemic with as little encounter as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear House, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What will happen now? It's an address. The Prime Minister has given Minister István Nagy the right to reply because of his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[On Dr. Tamás Bellozó's signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We would also like to express our condolences on behalf of the MSZP to the family of the first deceased. But his case clearly points out that, in our view, the protocol that the government and health care have to do today is not good. I don't know what the WHO protocol is that's different for a minister than for a health worker, but right now, it's not about getting involved in anything. Simply with common sense, Minister, we know from the other case of the coronal virus that he went to the general practitioner twice with fever and was sent home. The third time he was taken to the hospital by an ambulance, and it was only then tested. We all know how many people he could have met between the two, and how many unnecessary infections he could have committed against his will and purpose, don't we? We know how many doctors have now had to be quarantined by dozens in several hospitals in Budapest, because it turns out that for days, people with coronal viruses have been treated with respiratory disease and fever without testing patients. Mr. Secretary, I don't care how much a test costs, no one cares, solve it, change the protocol, or tell me you can't solve this thing. What has been said here today is that there are thousands of tests, very, very few answers, Minister. What I'm interested in is how many people can test daily with the current solution in Hungary. If this is what we know, which is between 100 and 200 at most, what measures do you intend to take to radically increase this, and has the government done something about speeding up the rapid tests that will at least make progress in terms of separation? My last question is: when can the public expect a yes or no response on the 24-hour test by Mr Pintér? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2020-03-16-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister István Nagy will answer. Here you go, Minister. [[16.10]]
u2020-03-16-195	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, The fact is, indeed, the unfortunate death that has occurred must also give us sufficient responsibility, and it must give us the strength to go into this struggle every day with new and new strength and momentum. I have to say to you that there are no financial obstacles, that there are enough tests, or there are not enough tests, and there is also a procurement issue, because it is necessary to discuss separately that Germany should release the protective equipment that it held there, so it is not at all about whether the Hungarian Government is willing to sacrifice or not. Human life cannot be measured in money, and believe me, the Prime Minister has shown himself here in his speech before the agenda - he is open from above. If someone tells you what it costs, and there is only a financial reason for that, there is a financial cost, there can be no question. And when you say protocol like that, protocol like that, one day like that, the next day we're on a, yes, untraveled path, we're on a path where every day's experience helps us to go further. Let's look at the good examples abroad, let's take over those experiences, practical implementations, as other countries do, because this is a profession, a matter for which doctors have to find the right answer, and as they find in the world, and as the home professionals make their recommendations, they say how to do it, decisions are made accordingly. And obviously opportunity and reality must always be closer together [[The president's ringing the bell.]] so that adequate security of supply can be achieved. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-196	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-197	Thank you, Minister, and although it was nice words, I can see that you are speaking frankly, but unfortunately you have not answered anything in particular, not one question. Then let me at least ask you to represent it in the government, Minister, to make progress in this area. Once again, according to our today's information, the system is likely to be able to examine a 100-200 test in Hungary today; if that is the case, it is not acceptable. 1436 tests have been carried out in Hungary since the outbreak occurred, this neighbouring Austria is over 8 thousand by this morning, and we are not talking about numerology, but about how we can stop people from infecting other people infected, a means of doing so is the test, nothing else, Mr. Secretary of State, of course. He didn't respond to Mr. Pintér's condition either. Finally, Minister, such a case, as you said earlier, is that in terms of people's participation and willingness to give gifts and voluntary offerings, I would like to conclude. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask for a second, Mr President - please examine the tax laws of the government that, for example, if companies wish to give to workers or to anyone, whether they wish to give vitamins or equipment, this will be subject to additional taxes and additional taxes, and this will be abolished at least in the event of an emergency. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-16-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the minister's word. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-199	Thank you very much. Your question pointed out why I did not respond to the Minister's condition: because we will all be getting information from the operational tribe, and I urge everyone to do so. There are so many rumours, so much reasoning, conspiracy theory and God knows what is not happening in the Internet world, in the virtual world, which is why I have said that the spoken word has enormous power, and the spoken word can be very dangerous, because it encourages people to do activities that have serious consequences. You know, I was very shocked by the experience that I am an agricultural minister, and I have to say this - that no one cared about getting enough food, what measures are being taken to make this story go on. These are all extremely important to me in order to have sufficient security, and I must say to you that all the testing methods and methods cannot be a question of being at the disposal of the people; as much as is necessary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That'll be all. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As regards the tax, I thank you very much for your suggestion that we should consider a very good initiative, such and similar initiatives we all welcome with great respect. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-200	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: what kind of epidemiological risk does illegal migration pose for Europe? It's an address. The Minister appointed Tamás Menczer State Secretary for his reply because of his absence. [[Mónika Dunai:]] Congresswoman Mónika Dunai indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor, please.
u2020-03-16-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, it can be said that not only our country, but the whole world is facing one of the greatest challenges of all time, and unfortunately, we can see that we are far from ending. Now, during the pandemic, attention, discipline and unity are needed. We all know that one of the most insidious features of a pandemic is that no one can know who carries the virus from the other, since it is able to be asymptomatic in our Lappangani system for up to a week and a half. This is also the case in the less developed countries from which hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are constantly moving towards Europe. There not only the health conditions, but also the level of information and organization, where appropriate, are far below Hungarian and European. As we know, today Iran can be a focal point of the coronal virus epidemic, where masses are infected, and unfortunately, the number of deaths is also high. Hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants have already come to Europe or to the border from this direction. We must say that a high risk to health security is involved if Europe does not limit illegal migration in this time of danger. Dear Secretary of State, Even in these difficult times, we must do everything we can to protect our borders. There is a serious question of what kind of epidemiological risk illegal migration poses for Europe. That's what I'm asking you. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-202	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State, please.
u2020-03-16-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to say that, of course, I do not want to harm anyone, and of course I am not insensitive when someone is in trouble or sick, but we also need to see that we cannot solve all the problems in the world, and that the Hungarian government is, of course, primarily responsible for the Hungarian people. I can tell you about the connection between immigration, migration and the virus, that we have so far known that immigration is a security risk, unfortunately there have been a number of examples, many terrorist attacks, many deaths, hundreds, more than a thousand injured here in recent years, and there have been about 30 major terrorist attacks, if any, to distinguish between terrorist attacks and one of them, whether small or large, so we have seen many of them. However, we now know that immigration is not only a safety risk, but also a risk to health preservation, and we are seeing two processes at once: on the one hand, the corona virus is spreading around the world and, on the other hand, the situation has worsened over the past few days in Syria, Turkey and the Turkish-Greece border; on the other hand, the situation is somewhat calmer in recent days than in the past few days, but this may change. Of course, we do not know, no one knows who is among illegal immigrants, unfortunately this has been proven in terrorist attacks, and so we do not know where they came from, through which countries they have passed, nor do we know what their health status is. In answer to the question asked by the Member, therefore, if they are allowed to pass, if the Greeks give up border protection, or if the border protection wall is breached by immigrants, and if they are able to move towards the inside of Europe, it is also an incalculable and inaccessible health risk in addition to the safety risk. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-16-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your answer, which I accept. We in the Fidesz Group have stressed from the outset that there is not only a huge security risk in the issue of illegal migration, but also a health risk. [[16.20]] Now, unfortunately, this is happening in an exponential and incomparably larger scale, and it seems to happen. I ask that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade do everything in its power to ensure that the European Union, the rest of Europe, can see this. We can see the signs of this, but we will see what action will take place behind the words. Indeed, human life is the most important, and we trust that our words, Prime Minister, and the words of the government, which we have been saying in the world for years, will finally be heard and followed by us in terms of security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-03-16-207	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, on the basis of various reports, we know that there is yet another big problem here. It is indicated that some organisations wish to evacuate from migrant camps in Greece, as they say, on the basis of health risks, which means migrants, which means that they want to bring them from the Greek islands to the interior of Greece, and then, as they say, they are able to move from there to other parts of Europe, including Hungary. So I would like to emphasise that we are seeing aspirations and risks aimed at launching these people with health risks towards the inside of Europe, and this is unacceptable. They should not be left alone either, but the solution is certainly not to bring trouble to the inside of Europe. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-16-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. Mr Simicskó, Member of the KDNP Group, called the importance of our national symbols. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-16-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday was the 15th of March, unfortunately because of the epidemic, we failed to hold a central ceremony. In many places, celebrations have been cancelled for the safety and protection of people. I, Newbuda, would have had a celebration at Géza Gárdonyi Elementary School, where I was asked to be a solo speaker last Friday, but it was already taken precautions, so we bridged the problem by handing over a national flag, a copy of a flag of 48 to children who had prepared since January for the celebration of 15 March, and also symbolically handed this flag to teachers who raised and prepared the children. It is important that we pay attention to each other, and it is important that the unity of the XIX. This cooperation now requires a different type of cooperation, but today it has been discussed all day in today's session and in Parliament, in order to control the epidemic for the safety of the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you some thoughts about our national symbols and the flag we have just mentioned. We know that the first flags appeared before Christ in 220, in ancient China during the Han Dynasty, but also in Rome, in ancient Rome, Roman soldiers fought with so-called venyllums, eagle-marked flagpoles and flags. The flag was always and always a symbol of union. Those who stand under the flag are one of them, they belong together. It's a symbolic symbolism. He's going to follow the history of humanity. The crest, the flag, became state symbols. In Hungary, three colors, the national color the tricolor, red is the strength, white is the loyalty, green is the hope for all of us. In 1848-49 there was a great hope, which occurred with the birth of the nation: the birthday of the nation, the Hungarian nation, and also 15 March 1848 and the birthday of the Hungarian Defence Forces in this respect, as it is also a symbol of national independence. In 48 the soldiers were sworn on these historic flags and national flags. From the text of oath 48 allow me to quote a few sentences: I swear to the living God that I am ready to defend the constitution of my country and the independence of the Hungarian nation with my life and blood. I will never leave my national flag. These are very beautiful and noble thoughts. In 48, the flag was considered to be the sanctity of the soldier, and a token of the trust he gave to the warriors of the state in decisive and critical moments, a sign of assembly, during which we must win or die. The protection of the flag was therefore the most sacred duty of all warriors, of all soldiers. With that, the glory of the team will form an inseparable unity. The knights used to say that the flag, the Hungarian national flag, could not go backwards. It could only win or die. On August 13, 1849 the Austrian Habsburg state was able to destroy, search and destroy the memories of the war of freedom by all means after the shooting of light weapons. As soon as they grabbed him, they burned and burned these flags. There were very nice and noble slogans written on these flags. Among other things:. For your country, for your freedom,....Protect to keep it! The Hungarian flag and the Hungarian coat of arms are intertwined and related to Hungary's independence, symbolizing the independence and sovereignty of the Hungarian state. Let me give you an example from other nations, in the Serbian coat of arms there are four letters of Cyrillic, expressing that the Serbs can only survive if they form unity. Only unity can mean their survival, the pledge of the future. I believe that all nations, and so do we; if we are able to unite and unite, then we can certainly, in the long term, count on our future and the future of our children. This period is a test for all of us: we are able to regroup against a different type of danger and not necessarily safeguard our independence, although this is also on the agenda for migration, but it is certain that action against this virus also requires unity. I believe that all the evidence of what has been said today has been shown that there is an effort to do so, and that the government is also working a thousand times to prevent the virus from spreading further. I wish to all of us that, as I quoted the slogan from the flag of 48: protect it so that you can keep each other and protect the Hungarian flag, we also protect Hungary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-03-16-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have applied for a post-meeting speech for how long? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-211	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, I must join the solo before me: we need a level of national cooperation that this country may not have experienced over the past 30 years, and I must say that unfortunately, the whole world, but Europe is in this situation, and obviously we are now forced to take some kind of test, both from unity and from a fight. That is why I would like to emphasise that we have a common responsibility, for me and for Members of Parliament, and for members of the various groups, to work out national minimum solutions that we can all take on, and that we can all provide our own sympathy circles, our own clients, and, where appropriate, we can bring about a situation where we cannot avoid the inevitable, but we can manage the manageable situations. That is why I would like to point out that it was Lajos Rig, on the part of our faction, who was the first to retire to the battle line, to be more precisely in a battle line, as he has temporarily given up his presence as a Member of Parliament, has returned to the very beginning of the battle chain as a qualified paramedic, and is performing the service I think we can all pay tribute to. I also see that many of the fellow Members from other factions have moved in one form or another and have all due respect for this, because at these times, in these hours, there can be no place for different party logos and badges, their place between us in terms of thinking together. We are quite certain that we can all find the genre, the form in which we can play our part in this great struggle. And if all we do is that everyone can calm down the sympathizers of their own chariot camp and outline realistic opportunities for them, we have made great progress. That is why I am asking my fellow pro-government Members to reach consensus in three areas. Everyone can then represent this consensual minimum. We can see that in many sectors, in the catering industry and in tourism, there is an impossible shortage of jobs in the near future. [[16.30]] What kind of genre, what kind of strapping may be in the debate between us, but it is certain that the Hungarian employment protection fund should be set up and that our fellow citizens should be guaranteed, as soon as possible, that they will be able to obtain their salary in some form by summer, and that employees of completely impossible industries should be able to obtain some predictable income, because although the good proposal for a credit repayment moratorium, including a better one, has gone through fortunately and could become such a national minimum, many other daily costs are typically in front of those affected who have to pay for housing costs. Obviously, another area of dispute between us may be the issue of bills, where a mass demise, perhaps not this week or next week, may not occur, but we can also see that it is not possible to keep our countrymen in doubt beyond the uncertainty that exists from the fund, in addition to the fear of the health of family members, even to the fear of inability. It must therefore be avoided. A moratorium on overhead accounts can certainly help those in difficulty to do so. However the epidemiological situation may turn out, there are obviously worse scenarios not only in the press, but also in the mind of the majority of Members, so let us not forget that many people in Hungary are terrified of the situation following the eviction moratorium in spring. So if we have reached that point, and I think that this country has reached an exemplary speed to announce a moratorium on loan repayment following the call of the Hungarian nation, either with the involvement of the Bank Alliance, the Government of Hungary, or anyone else, but this sane step must be taken, so that we can get from here to strike an enforcement moratorium and an eviction in a longer form for all of this, because then it makes sense. Overall, what I see as our most important task is that we are sitting in any faction now, and whether we are in government or opposition, to find consensus on these issues of fate, to declare a national minimum, and everyone can represent this crediblely towards their own. I am therefore very confident that, along with the moratorium on repayment of loans, if the final solution is reached, we can create a real battle chain, and in relation to these national fates, we will have the common denominator that this nation has been waiting for for for 30 years. Now this nation is in a danger zone. We are going to take a joint exam on how quickly and how effectively we can get out of this. For this joint exam, I offer my own work with great respect. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The picture of society has also been submitted to the post-meeting of a virus from the Jobbik Group, Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-03-16-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister István Nagy just told us half an hour ago that we are facing an unknown situation, we have never been in this situation, and we are now learning this. Well, that's the biggest problem. We're comfy. We believe that the good world, the modern world, the relatively well-being protects us from viruses and bacteria. But has anyone ever given you a guarantee? The fact that hygiene devices are higher as a result of technological progress, that we can prevent or combat various diseases, does not mean that no virus has ever told anyone that I will no longer function, nor do we know for certain that this globe is no longer the same as it was at the beginning of mankind, because ever since mankind has existed, it has been destroying the Earth's atmosphere. Since then, it has damaged the air, the oxygen that we need to have a healthy life. I thought that when this outbreak broke out, or the beginning of the epidemic broke out, that the protocols for the government that are operating as automatisms are ready, and everyone knows exactly what they're supposed to do in the given chain of tasks. We have a György Bakondi, we have a disaster protection, and we believed that there are not only different exercises, simulation exercises for society in such a situation because they do not want to scare society, but it turned out in connection with this epidemic that there are no simulation exercises because there are no simulated situations and there are no exercises. Consider, for the past 70 years, no one has thought that schools should have education material, whether in a natural or in a medical disaster, about what they should do. I'm sure the older generation remembers that there were civil defense exercises in high school and high school. You will remember that the natural part of society was how to react to a disaster and who is in what position, depending on whether it is a child, adult, woman, male, older, young, what it is to do, work in health care, or in the military, or in the police. I am shocked that in Hungary there are the best statisticians in the world, the best logistics and the best epidemiological experts in the world recognize this - and we are concerned that there are no natural, pre-planned scenarios for such a situation. The behaviour of society, the composition of society, the nature of the particular disease type: there are a lot of conditions to which professionals could have developed perfect protocols. Then the next important issue is the soothing of society, motivation in the behaviour of society. If society sees that the information is not clear, that it is not correct, that it is not straight, that the citizens ask a number of questions after information because they do not receive an answer, then society is uncertain. Fortunately, out of the 3 million families, only 200,000 felt that they had to bring home next year's flour and sugar, because otherwise, if all 3 million families had done so, then all the shops in the country would have been empty in one day. How fortunate that panic is only a part of our society who responds! But here's the question of school closure and graduation. We don't remember it, because we're all young people, but we learned that when the front reached our country in World War II, the schools were shut down for the first time in the eastern part of the country, and as the front advanced to the Western part of the country in about six months. But to whom have learning and advancement been ensured? The graduation class. We know that one of my fellow Members and I had just talked about how many students couldn't study without a teacher an hour ago. She can't study without a teacher, without a teacher's supervision. Can anyone imagine the serious danger that young people who are otherwise qualified for university are now unable to get into high schools because of this situation, because digital learning will not be enough for them? I think that now society in our country, compared to how little it knows and how much it has to realize that there are no systems, behaves very decently, acts very cooperatively, and bows to the greatness of my nation, that in this huge problem they are acting so disciplined, devotedly and truly patriotic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-16-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Varga, Member of the MSZP Group, spoke after the agenda with a title on current issues. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Obviously, our meeting today was defined by the corona virus epidemic, this pandemic and its aspects in Hungary. Of course, practically without exception, the speeches were all about this. I, too, would like to address a number of issues in this regard, perhaps trying to raise some questions that have not been raised here at this meeting today. All over the country today is the deadline for local taxes to be paid. It was supposed to be the 15th, but this is Sunday, so obviously Monday is midnight. It is a centralised system that has been established in recent years, as well as in other areas of life, in terms of tax collection, even in terms of local taxes, that you have set the objective of centralisation, i.e. government politicians. The centralized system hasn't really passed an "A" in the last week. I have received feedback from countless settlements that the sending of cheques has slipped, in fact in the middle of last week people have received checks at several county seats, and they have been notified of their local tax liability. [[16.40]] Note that this is a centralised system operated by the Treasury and mailed by the Post Office for these balances and cheques. So two things are certain. One is that the municipalities that uploaded these data at the time did not make any mistakes, they are not responsible for the delay, and it is also certain that the Hungarian people cannot do anything about the delay, that they were too late to know what their obligation was. So they received these letters in several places when the emergency was announced last week. For this reason, in several forums and here this morning in part, I suggested that the government take all decisions within its competence in order to postpone the deadline for payment at least two weeks in order not to have to pay the Hungarian people a late payment during this period. I would add that, obviously, this system works automatically, and here, as a result of the error and delay, the addition of late payment allowances to local obligations may start after midnight if no action is taken. I believe that this is a worthwhile, constructive proposal, and that the government should therefore act on matters within its competence. As far as I know, there have been personal consequences for such a serious delay. Of course, it is important that service providers are dealt with immediately in connection with the payment of bills. The moratorium on credit repayment and the moratorium on execution are something that I would have brought up myself, but I will join Dániel Z. Carpathian in this regard. I would like to refer here to the five-point package of the MSZP, which our party leader, Bertalan Tóth, has already talked about before the agenda, and also to the fact that, in terms of energy prices, there would be a very serious opportunity to reduce the cost of gas on the world market, and I think that would be very important for the Hungarian people. At the end of my speech, I would like to talk about some of the sectors where I see serious problems. This epidemic will cause a lot of long-lasting economic problems, it is already apparent, but there are sectors where these are prompt problems. For example, certain commercial sectors, catering, tourism and event planning sectors, so a significant part of cultural life, where tens of thousands of workers are affected, and even hundreds of thousands of people are affected by this issue. For example, many people in cultural life also work as forced entrepreneurs, and many people virtually lose their income in the coming months. I think it is also the government's job to take care of them, to say something to this sector. But it is also difficult for those who work in public works, libraries, museums, archives and galleries. It is true that a large proportion of the people who work here live on municipal and public wages, so they work in such a reserved institution, but here again I would like to draw attention to their difficult situation when I talk about the sector. In January, the CCP, their trade union, sent a petition to the government, where it deals with the whole sector, but, by the way, it takes particular account of their wage situation, because in the last 10 years, there has been no wage arrangement for workers in this sector, and I think this will cause a very difficult situation for them in these months. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-03-16-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, Mr Ádám Steinmetz, from the Jobbik Group, asked for an after-the-date speech. What does the Volán do to protect passengers and bus drivers in order to prevent a coronal virus infection? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to begin my speech after the agenda where Mr Máté Kocsis finished his speech before the agenda. If I remember correctly, he said that we must now meet one goal: to protect Hungarian citizens. That was the intention that led me to ask for a word, and to tell you my experience, that walking among people is becoming more and more noticeable, that there is an increase in concern about the global coronal virus, or about the spread of the virus. Like the neighbouring countries, the Government of Hungary has taken decisive and responsible steps to prevent the spread of the virus. The introduction of justified restrictions, although making people's daily lives difficult, is still understood because we do not want to get sick. As a Member of Parliament, it is my duty to draw the House's attention to the need for further steps beyond what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has shared with us today. And that's where we get to the point that we absolutely need to talk about, public transport. Community transport is a major focus on the spread of the virus and should therefore be given particular attention. On the Volán buses, thousands of bus drivers and tens of thousands of passengers are at risk on a daily basis. Think about it when 40-50 people travel in a closed airspace for hours, about the extent to which they are exposed to infection, especially on buses on which regular cleaning and disinfection have not yet been solved. By the way, this can be seen and seen in absolute action on flights in Somogy County. The Volán leaders' statements are highly controversial. One day, passengers are reassured that regular cleaning has been done, and the next day they say that they cannot get the disinfectants they need. So what's the truth? On 28 February, it is stated that exceptional measures will be put in place for workers and passengers in the form of increased and daily disinfection. Then much later, on 9 March, when the trade union leader raised the lack of these measures, Volán claimed that now pay attention to the fact that they are currently unable to obtain these disinfectants on the market. Ladies and gentlemen, That's amazing from the top management of a state company. I therefore propose taking substantial steps to protect passengers and bus drivers as soon as possible, instead of continuing misrepresentation and excuse-making. Indeed, the daily regular cleaning and disinfection on these flights should be carried out, this should be administered and kept in the record. In particular, disinfection should also apply to windows, which regularly evaporate even in this time of March, and children are known to draw on it. I don't have to explain how dangerous this is. In addition, check the passengers waiting there with screening tests at major stations and bus stations before boarding the bus. In order to protect bus drivers, I recommend that passengers be able to interact as little as possible on inter-urban flights, if possible, to board through the back door, and that the bus driver's cab be locked from passengers in a hermetic or at least cordon, as long as this epidemiological situation persists. Finally, I would like to ask the government and the Volán leaders to implement these measures as soon as possible, otherwise it is feared that bus drivers will not take up the job and that this may partially paralyze public transport in Hungary. But don't, so please act. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-03-16-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. After 10 years, Mr Zoltán Varga, from the DK Group, with the title of governance, must begin to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-16-219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I had a really nice conversation this weekend with an old friend of mine. He has a high-end sports company, business, event planning company, and I met him for the first time when he told me that just a few days after the announcement of the health emergency, his so-called top-notch company is practically fighting for his life. In less than three days, they had to decide whether they would be able to pay the loans they had received or whether they would be forced to lay off. They had to give up more than ten people. I must say that his example is not unique. We see that hundreds, thousands of entrepreneurs, especially tourism, catering, passenger transport, hotel industry and, as I said before, in the field of sports organisation and event organisation have already been in an almost unsolvable situation. [[16.50]] Businesses that have worked well so far, sometimes with a multimillion-dollar lease, development credit, are already unable to figure out how they will pay their repayments in the coming months due to a drastic decline in traffic. Because of the threat of bankruptcy, as well as my acquaintance, they have to cut costs, so they've already started firing thousands of families, tens of thousands of them again. But closing schools, kindergartens, nursery schools can also create an unsolvable situation for families living overnight if they are forced to stay away from their jobs. It seems, and I fear, that I am not alone in this opinion, that we are facing more serious problems than in the 2008 crisis. We really need a real economic protection action plan now, and, above all, a comprehensive social package. However, resources to boost the economy have been spent on overheating in recent years. And what really disappoints me is that spending on education, health and social purposes is the least important thing for the government. While their share of GDP has decreased by 3.7 percent in recent years, it has increased significantly for sports and ecclesiastical purposes. A living example of this is the government decision issued this Saturday, which will give the State Healthcare Services Center HUF 2 billion out of the financial envelope for extraordinary measures, but will spend HUF 2 billion on church investments. And let's see what's going on all over Europe. Germany. It will spend EUR 500 billion to save businesses and jobs. The German Government calls on employers to reduce working time to 4 or 6 hours instead of dismissal, and the government will reimburse 75% of the resulting salary. Belgium. Institutions closing by government decree, employees of businesses receive their full wages, private companies owners receive EUR 4,000 each for the time they lose. France. Workers on forced leave are guaranteed by the state. Romania. Parents who have to stay at home because of the closure of children's institutions receive extraordinary paid leave from the state. And what happens here? We saw today, we saw the announcements: virtually nothing; they set up 10 action groups. The Democratic Coalition has made more than 38 proposals in recent days and weeks. Many of these serve to preserve jobs, help workers and reduce the burden on entrepreneurs. For example, the state will replace the wage of quarantined workers. No one shall be released unilaterally during the quarantine period and for 30 days thereafter. In addition, without interest on late payment, this has already been mentioned in this House, let the debt repayment, payment of utility bills and taxation be suspended. At the school cafeteria base, home care for needy children and pensioners must be organised. The parent who stays home with children will receive full compensation from the state for the care of children at home. Small and medium-sized enterprises should be given the opportunity to postpone their contribution. Dear House, Solidarity is needed. To protect people in distress from oppression, businesses from bankruptcy, and the economy from recession. It is up to the Government of Hungary to finally turn this solidarity into action. So far, this task, we see, hasn't been handled well, hasn't been handled very well. After ten years, you can't put off any longer. You have to start steering. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-03-16-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 23 March 2020. Now I thank you for your work, and in this emergency, everyone, I ask that we act responsibly and look after each other. Good-bye, everyone. This meeting is closed.
