u2020-03-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be able to help me, Mr. Winner Vinnai and Mr. György Szilágyi. Welcome to our guests and to all those who are monitoring our work today. We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda; after that, from 12:15 to 13:45 a.m. to the questions, then from approximately 13:45 to 14:45 a.m. to the hour of immediate questions and answers; finally, after the agenda, we will finish the meeting of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, on the part of the Dialogue, asked for a pre-meeting address:. Escaped inequalities, yelling injustices, leading to the perverted Fidesz policy. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai will take his place in the notary seat.]]
u2020-03-02-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, It is time to speak clearly about the perverted policy of Fidesz, namely the perverted redistribution policy of the Orbán government. The European Commission's recent country report is about the fact that in Hungary the system of taxes and subsidies in Europe alone would not only reduce but also greatly increase social inequalities. This is both a violation of people's sense of justice and a reflection of economic development, as reported by the European Commission. So Fidesz's perverted policy redistributes incomes among people in such a way that the rich are richer and the poor are poorer. Tax cuts for earners and large companies, tax increases for the poor. Huge subsidies to the upper middle class and to the giant companies, less and less subsidies to people living from month to month. Let's look at personal income tax. The introduction of a single-key girl meant that the taxes on earners were halved and the minimum wage tax was increased by 15 percentage points. Let's look at the wages. The minimum wage has indeed increased from a net HUF 60 236 in 2010 to HUF 107 065, which is 78 per cent plus, of course, half of it is carried away by inflation. But you know what rose even more than that? The amount of taxes and contributions payable to the State after the minimum wage increased from HUF 34 212 to HUF 84 525, i.e. by 147 percent. So much for reducing the burden on work. And while the minimum wage grew from 60 thousand to 107 thousand, the salaries of the Fidesz ministers rose from 1.1 million to 5 million. While a nurse, a nurse, or a starting teacher brings home 120-150 thousand forints, the Fidesz President György Matolcsy pays 5 million forints after the Fidesz' demagogue about the 2 million-dollar ceiling for years. Or let's look at the situation of the unemployed. What happens if someone loses their job? The Fidesz system has a record low rate of unemployment benefit, followed by community service, and even a loss of support for its children, since tax relief for children means that they only support children who have jobs. If you lose your job, your kid won't be supported by the Fidesz State. Compared to this, for example, Gergely Christmas in dialogue in Budapest gives the unemployed a free pass. The difference is that we help or continue to hit those who are in a difficult situation. Let's take a look at the corporate tax, the Tao. The tax reduction also helped large companies, 10 percentage points minus the giant companies, a 1 percentage point reduction for Hungarian SMEs, so multinationals and Fidesz oligarchs are barely paying taxes, especially because they are supported by individual tax incentives. In the meantime, if they don't want to pay this lake, they can still use it for sports, Fidesz football, and then there won't be enough money left for health care, decent pensions, social benefits or education. And while large companies barely pay taxes, people pay world-wide, 27 percent VAT on the budget. This tax increase was also carried out by Fidesz. There's something else called the taxes on the poor, and that's inflation. Fidesz uses them exactly that way, inflating subsidies such as the family allowance, the old-age pension minimum, the poor or even the civil servant's salary fund, the amount of which hasn't increased for a penny since 2010, a third of their value has been lost. Or let's look at the pensions. The smallest old-age pension is still at the humiliating 28 500 HUF level, compared with the highest pensions in the Fidesz system, thanks to the new calculation they flew to heaven in a few years; in 2014 the highest pension was 870,000 forints, in 2016 it was over 2 million. So the thirtyfold difference in six years has increased more than a hundredfold, while our elderly countrymen are in poverty, the poverty rate has increased from about 4 to 10 percent, and the highest pensions are in the sky. And if the differences are: while the average Hungarian cannot move from five to six, the wealthiest wealth of the hundred has tripled, but the wealth of the richest Hungarian, Viktor Orbán, has increased thousands of times over ten years. The Orbán government is therefore the government of the upper tens of thousands and large companies, the government of the Urizing Fidesz luxury right, which, with its perverted policy, only increases the unfair differences, which is why we will drive it away in 2022. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-02-2	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör has indicated that he wishes to answer the question. You have the floor.
u2020-03-02-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Here in Parliament, you are pitiful of the country's performance from week to week, which, by the way, I understand its political drivers, but that does not make their assessment of the country that is collapsing true. Right now, they're saying the inequalities are out of control. According to Eurostat data, honourable Member, since 2010, the proportion of people at risk of poverty has decreased by 1.3 million, while the proportion of people in severe material deprivation has decreased from 23 per cent to 9 per cent. In another approach, the number of people living in extreme poverty has decreased to a quarter. This, by the way, honourable Member, is closely linked to the fact that 840 thousand more people are already working in Hungary compared to 2010. For example, unemployment among Roma has been halved. I would add that nearly one million children are now receiving free textbooks, the government has led to foreign exchange loans, reduced VAT on basic foods, and maintains the cost reduction. As far as the country's performance is concerned, I would like to give you a few examples, which you will systematically leave out of your speeches. Let us say that the growth of the Hungarian economy is not first in the EU, it is about 5 percent, which is one of the best indicators across Europe, and it is intended to be felt by everyone. The net average earnings in a year... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Three hundred forints a kilo of potatoes, let's talk about that.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You can check, the average net earnings increased by 11 percent in one year. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That may be, but the potatoes are 40 percent!]] Of course, there's still room for them to rise to, but it's still an increase. What is just as important is that the unemployment rate has fallen to 3.3 percent. That was 12 percent, Madam Vadai, during the period when you were ruling. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The potatoes are expensive.]] It is also a matter of livelihoods that the minimum wage has doubled. You can magically try to cover this up, but it's still a fact that the minimum wage has doubled. [[Bence of Turdai: It hasn't doubled!]] We don't happen to say it's enough, but you can't say it's nothing. Now as far as your specific suggestions are concerned, if you look at them, we know a few things; not all of them are mentioned. They wanted to raise personal income tax. They would've stopped the CHOK. They would have reduced the family tax relief. They wanted to raise the corporate tax. They would've brought in the property tax. These are just a few examples of their austerity plans. And since you mentioned Budapest as an example to follow, I am glad that you brought it up, in the election campaign in Budapest you promised that you would give all pensioners a heating grant of HUF 20,000. All pensioners. [[11.10]] That's a promise they've broken, because now the support will only be given to a tighter circle. If you try to deny it all, here is the quote: we will give the pensioners twenty thousand HUF per heating season. Christmas Gergely, World Older Day, October 1st, Kossuth radio. It didn't come to nothing. They also promised that the BKV would be free of charge for people under the age of 14. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] It didn't come to nothing! We also remember, honourable Member, that this concerns you once protesting half-naked on subway 3, demanding the installation of the climate. Then, in Budapest, they had a government opportunity, last week they voted in favour of this year's budget, and they took out the climate investment. They took it out! [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] So if, with better time coming, Your Honour, next time you'll be protesting half-naked, please do so in front of Gergely Christmas. Whether you do it or not, it seems like the campaign is over, and they're flying around breaking every election promise they made a few months ago. Dear Chief of Staff, Left-wing politicians are now in a number of positions of responsibility, so it is in Budapest, and that means that your work is increasingly less and less determined by what they are saying, but more and more by what they are doing. And we know, we see what they're doing, and what they've done so far, what they've done is not painting a very nice picture, it doesn't give a very nice picture, it doesn't open a new era at all, as they refer to, but it's practically a retro party dedicated to the Gyurcsányi years, but it's not good to watch. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Bence Tordai intervene.]]
u2020-03-02-4	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of Ms Krisztina Hohn, on behalf of the LMP, she applied for a pre-meeting speech: the government is worth so much with the title "Knowledge." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-02-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Since 2014, the funding of teachers' wages has not changed. We have just heard that the minimum wage has doubled over the last few years, but since the pay base for teachers has not changed, in 2019 a teacher with a college degree should only complement his salary to the guaranteed minimum wage. So you're probably looking for a guaranteed minimum wage. Today, education workers have reached a turning point after the humiliation of recent years. They have already mutilated their rights in almost every way in the area of free education and expression. Today, in 2020, we are saying that an institution has almost no say in what to teach and how to teach and that teachers have no opportunity to protest. These disenfranchised schools and teachers are those who bring home humiliating salaries on the Hungarian average for most of their careers. We want the government to see that a 10 percent increase is not enough here. We need real wage development, which does not only follow annual inflation. In order to raise wages, there is a first need to improve wages to the average. Even though the government says that it spends more on education year after year, spending is lower in 2020 than it was in 2010. The focus should not be on how much we spend on education compared to the EU average, but on what we need to develop at home. If I see my fruit tree is sick, I can't just give it as much care as I can give it to a healthy person. It is essential to tie the teachers' pay table to the minimum wage, to introduce a graduate minimum wage and to eradicate the poverty of teachers. It is no coincidence that there is a huge dropout in the pedagogical faculties and that about half of the graduates are only at work. The monthly net salary of 140 thousand HUF is an illusory appeal in the country where an average rent in Budapest costs 165 thousand HUF per month. From the point of view of purchasing power unit, we are among the last teachers in the EU, not to mention that after the Master's degree, the frozen pay table will not give any more money to beginners. But social respect doesn't make up for the freaks who choose to lose a job as a teacher. Teachers earn less at all levels of education than other workers with tertiary education. The same applies to colleagues who directly assist teachers, even when compared to this, they bring home disproportionately little money. What will motivate a fresh starter to go to a disadvantaged area to teach? Things are getting worse and worse there with catching up, and if we do not resolve the priority allowance for teachers working in such areas within a closed deadline, we will soon lose the opportunity for these children to ever catch up on their future prospects. If we do not offer high-profile wages, employment housing, extra motivation for these teachers, what will prevent the formation of islands that are segmented in terms of education in the country? But I will go further: if no real wage development is made within a closed deadline, there will not only be no teachers in the country by name, but also virtually no teachers in the country, because under such humiliating circumstances there will not be any beginners. The level of teacher training needs to be increased. Not only did the evaluation of the pedagogical track deteriorate, but also the working conditions. Wage development is fundamental, but not only would it be necessary to have a XXI. It's a 100th-century education system. The goal would be to get students with the best skills to go to universities, and then the state can pay for them. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-03-02-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári indicated his wish to answer the question. You have the floor.
u2020-03-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that all good Hungarian citizens agree that the area of education is an area that needs particular attention. Therefore, if you followed the government's various measures, you saw that after 2010, when it was possible for the first time to launch a noticeable wage increase programme in some sector, the first was the teacher's wage increase programme, the teacher's career, which meant a 50 percent wage increase with a multi-annual phase-in. After all, we thought, as you said in your speech, that teachers should be given special attention, and that before 2010, teachers went through a very big shock: those with whom you are running in an alliance put 15,000 teachers on the street. They put 15,000 teachers on the street! Their wages were deducted from education, and then what was left for the others was taken away from a month's salary. Thus, those who had not been dismissed were taken a month's wages, and more than 300 were deprived of the opportunity to study locally. This was the situation after which we really had to regain the trust and vision of teachers, and therefore the first career that this government had set in motion was the pedagogical career in 2013. It was a 50 percent wage increase, but it offered more for everyone, as it also created the possibility that some teachers from Grade I were teachers. either acquire a master education degree or acquire other research teachers and other titles. The number of ratings, if I compare all that teachers have obtained in recent years, since the introduction of the career, is close to 100,000, and most of them, the majority of teachers from I. are teachers II. This was not only a grade step for them, but also a salary increase, with a salary increase of HUF 30-35 thousand for these teachers. In the last academic year, there were 17,000 teachers who applied for a teacher qualification, so they made progress not only in grade but also in salary. During the last sessions, we decided to raise the salary of the head of the institution, the school principals. Unfortunately, this was not supported by the opposition here in Parliament. You spoke here, honourable Member, and said that teachers should make more money, but at a time when the school leaders and directors should have decided to raise their salaries, you did not press the yes button and your fellow Members did not press this on the opposition side. Obviously, I also think it is important that the wages of a teacher I, who has been a teacher for more than 30 years and who has a university degree, can rise by HUF 142 100. [[11.20]] For 35 years, the salary of a master educator over a thousand people on the field, which means he runs a large school, could increase up to HUF 182 thousand by means of this wage increase announced by the government, but you did not support it here in Parliament, Congresswoman. It is also important that an additional incentive is also available for a maximum of HUF 100 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government did not stop when the 50 percent wage increase was gradually introduced in several steps, but another 10 percent wage increase was also decided. This will be introduced from 1 July this year. At the same time, if I look at the amount of surplus for education throughout the year, well, this represents an additional wage cover of about HUF 80 billion, which we can now add to previous teacher wage increases as an additional surplus in a full year. If you look at what you have indicated as to the difference between spending on education in 2010 and this year's number, you will see that we spend about HUF 660 billion more on education, education for young people, and the largest part, the largest surplus, is a 335 billion plus 30 billion, which is still included in the current wage increase in vocational training, which is a framework for wage increases. This is how we got the wages of a graduate, university-educated teacher and intern, which was somewhere around 129 thousand forints in 2010, now rising by 102 thousand forints to 231 thousand forints, which is a 78 percent wage increase between 2010 and 2020. Or a 20-year-old college-educated educator who classified himself as a teacher. He did not earn 150,000 forints in 2010, now he can earn 331 600 forints from the second half of this year, which is a 122 percent increase. But he's a 20-year-old university educator who's also a teacher. He's in grade, so he's rated himself in the last few years, he made 172 thousand forints in 2010, and now he can earn 368 thousand forints, which is an increase of 113 percent. Of course, I agree with you that wages have increased in many other places, but you can also see that, while we are talking about wage cuts earlier, we are now talking about tangible increases, and we would like to continue with this policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-8	Mr Gergely Arató, on behalf of DK, asked for a speech before the next agenda. Nothing can be more important than the security of Hungarian citizens. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-9	Mr President, Dear House, Before I come to the specific subject of my speech before the agenda, I would like to make something very clear. The Democratic Coalition doesn't communicate about the corona virus because we want to cause panic, that's not what we're talking about. DK has been very patient with the government over the past two weeks, but by now people's patience is apparently running out of ours. The fact that they hold two times a day instead of an extraordinary press conference is not a substitute for action, a real defence, nor does it provide adequate information. Therefore, I would like to remind the government once again: the protection of the country and the protection of the people is primarily the responsibility of the current government. But it's our job to check and help you with that. And as you have a dog duty to protect the country and the people, it is our duty as dogs to tell you if you do not do your job well. The fact that the epidemic is now causing a large number of diseases in Italy and that more and more European countries are spreading is also a new situation for Hungary. We agree on that. However, while there is a serious risk that the epidemic will reach our country, people do not receive reliable information from the government on the nature of the disease, on the method of prevention, on what is necessary in the event of illness or quarantine, and the lack of information in this case uses the spread of false news and is a serious threat. You have failed to create a reliable information website in five days when you announced this. What if there's a serious problem? We welcome the extension of airport temperature control to those from Italy. At the same time, it is worrying that no measures have been taken to control those arriving by road from the infected regions in Italy. Over the next few weeks, hundreds of thousands of Romanian migrant workers working in northern Italy are expected to be transited through Hungary, who will otherwise be checked when they enter Romania. It is quite strange that there is such control at the Hungarian-Romanian border, but at the same time when they enter the country, there is no such control. And do not refer to Schengen because the Schengen regime allows for the temporary restoration of border control in the event of an epidemic threat. What is even more worrying is that, in the new situation, the greatest burden of protection will be on those general practitioners, ambulances and hospitals who have been struggling with a lack of resources, money and people for years. If there is a problem, there will be little to be done if there is no procedure, otherwise there is no means, there is no man and there is no capacity. Although the competent bodies also acknowledge that we are facing a new epidemiological situation, Hungarian hospitals will not receive any substantial help in preparing and maintaining normal functioning at all. We've been beating the table for years, no money in the GP system, ambulances, hospitals. By now, in the current epidemiological situation, this is a risk that the government cannot afford, because it is a direct threat to the lives and safety of Hungarians. In this situation, it is particularly important, since Mr State Secretary has already mentioned that the municipalities should also be involved in the defence. This has been done by the opposition-led municipalities, they have begun to prepare, but you do not make this easier, you do not welcome the help, but what happens last week is when Péter Niedermüller, Mayor of Elizabeth City, asked the Chief Officer for information, and you forbade him to receive this information. How do you expect the municipalities to cooperate with you from now on? The municipalities will do their best, but it would be your job to cooperate with them and help them. People's safety also means that they also have financial security, even if we have quarantine measures to protect them. Therefore, today we have tabled a bill that guarantees that people will still get paid in such cases, so that they do not lose their jobs and do not have to worry about yellow checks in this situation. We expect you to support this proposal. Of course, we also know that this costs money. That is why we have proposed that the unmerciless amount of government communication be transferred to information, preparation and protection about the Crown Virus, which is much more necessary than in Fidesz's lie factory. Ladies and gentlemen, We are on the side of the Hungarian people, we represent their interests, we consider their safety to be the most important. All we ask is that the government take our proposals seriously, the initiatives that professionals, general practitioners, hospitals and opposition parties make up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-03-02-10	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2020-03-02-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I think it is natural for opposition parties to criticize the government's actions wherever they know this is an important feature of democracy, and with this there could be matters in which you are not only guided by your own political considerations. These could include national policy, support for families or the fight against new epidemics. I am sorry that Ferenc Gyurcsány's party is using the issue of the Crown Virus to hysteria again this time, and it is only because of government measures or because they were initiated by the government. I would like to inform you that, although there is still no coronal virus patient diagnosed in Hungary, the government has taken a number of steps to ensure effective prevention. An operational tribe has been set up to keep an eye on developments and, if necessary, make proposals and make decisions. The police will check the border crossing points. This is also true of airports, where nearly 5,000 people were examined by Sunday. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true!]] The National Chief of Medicine and the National Health Centre are preparing hospitals and general practitioners. They are also the ones who operate the procedure proposed by the World Health Organisation, WHO. They also operate the telephone green number that citizens can call in 024 hours. St. László's Hospital will ensure that people from infected areas are monitored and treated in quarantine. [[11.30]] I'd like to inform you that there are 16 people in quarantine at the moment, they're all fine, symptoms-free and uncomplained. On behalf of many of us, I would like to thank doctors, nurses, law enforcement workers, state and non-state employees who have been working in the past few days and beyond to have the slightest possible consequences for the corona virus in Hungary. I would like to emphasise once again in Hungary that there has been no diagnosis of a coronal virus patient, but we must take into account that the virus has already appeared in the surrounding countries, and one of its focal points is in northern Italy, not too far away. As far as health expenditure is concerned, you may have referred to it, and I would like to say that, compared to your governance, this government is spending over 700 billion on health care. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Mostly steals it!]] That means a lot of things. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You can't really see it in Hungarian health care!]] hospital developments and, among other things, a new super hospital in Budapest [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's not very obvious, Mr. Secretary.]] If you don't stop me. As far as the information is concerned, I would like to tell you that the operational tribe stood up when there were only sporadic cases in Europe. The 28-point action plan was widely reported by the press and was also published on the government's Internet sites. The Public Health Service, the Minister of Human Resources, the Minister of the Interior, the St. Laszlo Hospital keep the public informed. The government's web pages are being kept up-to-date. Everyone can be interested, I've already mentioned that. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Green, with carrier pigeons!]] On a free number of greens. On the website of the National Centre for Public Health, you will find specific information on the measures and information. The government also reported in the parliamentary commission, and Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, also called for a seven-party consultation. I was told that you were still on the side of sobriety at the time, and that certain measures were appreciated. As far as communication is concerned, according to my quick calculations, the government and the various health institutions have been exposed nearly 50 times in the last few days, so fifty times. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They just talked, but they didn't say anything!]] , issued a communication and informed the public. Honourable Congressman, There's another aspect of the coronal virus situation. You heard yesterday that the government suspended the admission of newcomers to transit zones. This was necessary because many of the people coming to the southern borders came from Iran or came from Iran with their touch, and we are talking about a focal point in Iran, and there have been deaths, so there are multiple reasons for caution. I am bringing this up here, honourable Member, because if it were up to you, there would be no border lock and no transit zone, and then we would be faced with an additional factor that would weaken our defence ability now. So if it hasn't happened so far, maybe this case will make you realize that border protection is a fundamental national interest. [[Gergely Arató: We've always known that, Congressman.]] Honourable Congressman, To sum up, we say no to hystericalisation for political purposes, but we are open to any cooperation that serves the country's security. Anyone who cares about security can rely on the government, and in this situation, if you care about security [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Support our proposal then!]] Then you can count on the government. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of Mr Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP, he asked to speak before the next agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-13	Thank you very much. I just want to let you know that, as far as I know, wire fences don't protect you from the virus. [[Defiance from the opposition benches.]] That's one thing. The other is that, as chairman of the People's Welfare Committee, I would like to offer to the government that at any committee meeting, the representative of the government can come to the meeting at any time to inform Members of Parliament, without putting it on the agenda. I would like to ask, first of all, Secretary of State Kontra, because, as far as I know, the Minister has appointed you as his contact point. [[Károly Kontra: That's right!]] to send a serious man if possible, not György Bakondi. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] That's one thing. The third thing I did at the hearing the other day was not to panic, but to worry, I think I do. As a result, we can clearly see that the virus is not occupying certain areas, but is occasionally, randomly expanding around the world. So today we can say that there are three or four very serious focal points, and these three or four are located outside China. Look, the Province of Veneto is a two-and-a-half-hour drive from the Hungarian border, but Lombardia is also available in three to four hours. We know very well that the virus has appeared everywhere in neighbouring countries, and it is clear that it can appear in Hungary at any time, since very serious measures have been imposed by the Czechs, Austrians and now by Croatians. As far as I know, there are nearly 200 people in Romania in quarantine. Typically, these people traveled through Hungary. I just want to point out that this thermal imaging test is actually almost useless, because just because someone has a fever doesn't mean they're a virus carrier, and they can be a virus carrier without a fever. By the way, Croatia. Please, in the hospital in Zagreb, an infectious patient has been isolated, which is about a hundred kilometers from the Hungarian border. I think we should take this much, much more seriously. Like I said, there's a reason for concern. My fellow Member Ildikó Borbély will talk about the government supplier who provided hand sanitizers to social institutions through the state offices from the MÁV, in which there was only one thing: disinfectant. I think it's more serious than not dealing with it. Allow me to quote, for a few sentences, what was said by a general doctor in Nagyatád. Nagyatád is 20 kilometers from the Hungarian-Croatian border, as I just mentioned. We're in the front line of the war because we were pushed there, but they didn't give us a weapon to defend the situation with the coronal virus by a general physician in Nagyatád. I think that the domestic health government is only in communication for the time being, sending all kinds of information, situational and task descriptions to the general practitioners, but it does not provide material and material conditions. They told me to give the patients a mouth mask, but I'm asking you, how do I take care of a 1500-person area on my own? In addition to the fact that I don't think I should buy the protective equipment with my own money, it's impossible what you're asking because you can't get a mask. If a shipment shows up somewhere, it'll be sent to hospitals immediately, and the classic surgical mask won't do you any good. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please, I was on the Croatian and Slovenian-Hungarian border this weekend, I visited several pharmacies, there was no way to get mouth masks or hand sanitizers in any pharmacy. I think it's more serious than not dealing with it. In the morning hours, I listened to the chief of staff's press conference, where he told me that there was a new procedure under construction. I understand that, but this new procedure applies today. That is why I am seriously concerned now, because we need resources, resources, and human resources to prevent such a disease and such an epidemic. I look forward to your honored answer. Secretary of State, I'll be watching. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-14	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2020-03-02-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to refer to the seven-party briefing of 27 February, led by Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér and Minister Miklós Kásler in the Ministry of the Interior. There Tamás Harangozó, representative of your party, praised the fact that this negotiation was concluded and also mentioned that it is customary for the Ministry of the Interior to hold consultations and briefings on important matters. He also made his proposal, and the request was also made on this prospectus for Parliament's parties to be informed of the current situation on a daily basis. This information has already been sent out on Friday, each of the seven parliamentary parties receives this information every day, and we asked the parliamentary parties that since the health of Hungarian people, the safety of Hungarian people, is a national issue and a priority issue, they should cooperate in this, and all proposals, any ideas that promote security, will be accepted with thanks. By the way, I will tell you that János Stummer, a representative of Jobbik, has presented a package of proposals for which we will soon give the answer. Thank you, Congressman. Thank you to all Members who talk about this very important issue not for political gain, but for the safety of Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Let us not forget, however, that there are no patients infected with the corona virus in Hungary, such patients have not been registered, and the procedure established by the system, the operational tribe or the health secretary before, the hospital information, the necessary measures have been taken, and this is a very important result. [[11.40]] We are also prepared that, however, since this disease has already been registered in many countries in the area, in the neighbouring countries, then, if it is in Hungary, they register such a patient, a patient infected with a coronal virus, then there are the necessary conditions to ensure that this does not spread and that the Hungarian people are safe. I would also like to say that the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber was also present at this briefing, so the hospital was informed and the Hungarian Medical Chamber was informed. GPs are also informed, the necessary protective equipment is available. I will tell you that a production line of 25 000 capacity has been launched daily in Debrecen's prison facility, where prisoners produce mouth masks, production is continuous, products are made in two shifts, and the raw material is also provided for further production. I would also like to inform you that the tools, health and financial means to fight the Crown Virus are also available. Hungarian health care is prepared, we have excellent doctors and excellent specialists. Thank you for their work, who work to keep the Hungarian people safe in Hungary, and do this work day and night, the necessary tools are provided by the government. 700 billion more for health care than during your administration; 91 hospital renovations and improvements; more than a thousand new ambulances were in service; the number of working doctors increased by 18 percent; and if you do not prevent it, then the NewBuda Super Hospital will be built. In relation to sickness insurance, the legislation is clear: the general practitioner may decide to write the patient up for sick leave. In this case, we also ask for the understanding of private companies and employers. The operational tribe stood up when there were only sporadic cases in Europe. Hungary cooperates, the Hungarian health government, the Hungarian health services cooperate with the WHO and the competent organisation of the European Union. The 28-point action plan is known and will be implemented continuously. I think that the government will do everything in its power to ensure that the Hungarian people are safe and that it will provide the necessary financial conditions. I would like to say that the necessary money is also available, the medical staff is working beyond effort, we provide all the conditions. In the bv, mouth masks are made on a continuous shift. I would like to ask everyone who has a proposal, as has been said in the seven-party consultation, to do so, since we will examine all proposals in substance. Thank you very much for the work of those who have already made proposals. We trust that we can act effectively and work effectively to ensure the safety of Hungarian people and the health of Hungarian people. That's what we're asking of you, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Speaking before the next agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar, on behalf of Jobbik, asked for this. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I am very pleased that Secretary of State Károly Kontra concluded his response to the previous agenda by asking opposition parties and factions for concrete proposals, such as the ability to solve the problems in relation to the coronal virus and together to respond to them. I would also like to make such a concrete proposal, and I hope that the rest of the government, the other ministries, are on the same page. Our country has not had a state food reserve since 2015 or, if there is, it has been very well hidden and not communicated. In practice, this means that in a crisis situation, in a situation where a kind of panic-like takeover is taking place in the field of food and we are close to it today, and fortunately we can say that this panic buy-out is still considered unjustified, but it can come at any time when, on the one hand, it is justified or, if it is not justified, it certainly creates a situation where there is a serious shortage of specific foods. In such a situation, it certainly depends on the current stocks of multinational companies and the logistical capacity of their partners, whether Hungarian people have access to basic food or not. Unfortunately, we also have to say that our country is in a very bad and backward state in this regard, because in Europe and in other parts of the world, the state food reserve is a standard daily practice. If I look only at the countries of the European Union, Austria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania, France, Norway, Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands have outstanding food reserves. On this basis, it can also be said that there are significant reserves in Norway, Slovakia, Denmark, Iceland, Greenland, Cyprus and Spain, and these are official data published by the European Union. On the basis of these Eurostat statistics, Hungary is at the last place at the end of the line. By the way, European countries most logically reserve water, pasta, flour, sugar, wheat, grits, edible oil and long-lasting foods. So we don't have any information on all of this. All of this in a country where we think it would be absolutely right to expect people to have access to quality and adequate quantities of food at all times. That earlier, when our country had a food reserve, what these items were made of, we do not know exactly, since they were already treated as a secret and declared classified data. But after the Fidesz government, as I mentioned, had eliminated this in 2015, Jobbik immediately drew attention to this problem, and in 2016, I initiated a legislative amendment to settle it quickly and effectively. Then the Reserve Management Nonprofit Ltd. You managed this case, but you were able to get this company into a broker scandal. You are pleased to hear that you have risked the Hungarian national food reserve in a brokerage scandal, but there have also been many problems with daily operation. The only use of this state cft. was to purchase from your oligarchs the unsold, low-quality grain. It was often so contaminated with fungal infections that it was unfit for animal feeding, let alone national food. So we got to the point that this company closed with losses above HUF 5 billion. in terms of its annual operation, and the European Union has already started to look into it, so rather than facing the facts, the whole of Kft and the state food reserve were quickly eliminated, even though at that time the system was protected by sound words. I quote you: The state reserve can be found in almost every country in the world. Its organisation is justified by economic policy, natural and technical risks. We are deeply in agreement with these sentences, and I suggest that we adopt them again and set up such a system. The responsibility is tossed among themselves: the Ministry of Agriculture acknowledges that it belonged to it earlier, but now it cannot and does not want to take part in it, and blames it on the Ministry of Interior, who, however, feels that the defence portfolio is more competent in the case, who believes that the Prime Minister's Office will hold this issue together. So there's a total chaos and incomprehensibility in this area. I am willing to accept that this is a complicated, complex system when we are talking about emergency maintenance, and I must also say that Jobbik will always be a partner in protecting the people of this country, whether it is mass immigration or a health emergency such as is currently threatening our country. However, what the government needs to handle much more effectively is accurate communication and that there should be a sufficient quality and quantity of food reserves when the problem hits. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-18	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has indicated that he wishes to respond.
u2020-03-02-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that we understand people's fear of the Crown Virus, and we also consider it important to regularly and accurately inform the press and the public about the various government measures. But we would definitely protect any Member of Parliament and any political party or faction from taking advantage of the fears of the Crown Virus to gain political benefits for themselves. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] We would be afraid to bring to Parliament topics and questions that would undermine Hungarian people and Hungarian families and strengthen them on the fears that we understand, but we think they are unjustified at the moment. Let me also report to you that we held a press conference with the operational tribe on Friday, where we gave a detailed description of the current situation, in part the facts and information available in Hungary regarding the coronal virus infection. [[11.50]] It is clear and clear that there is no person currently infected with the coronal virus in Hungary, and the protection must be organised accordingly. The Hungarian public administration bodies are prepared and the defence mechanism that allows us to take the necessary measures at all times. The operational tribe is constantly meeting and making the decisions that are necessary for the security of Hungary and for the security of the Hungarian people. I can also tell you that we discussed last week with various trade organisations, trade associations and representatives of the largest trade chains. We are going to continue these discussions today, and we are going to go through the information that has been published in the press, and we are trying to give appropriate answers to it, which are about an increase in the desire to buy, and people are buying food that is lasting because of legitimate fear. But, honourable Member, the fact is that, although we understand these fears, it is the case that, at the moment, security of supply in Hungary is appropriate in all respects, since both traders and their suppliers have the stocks that represent a significant reserve even if the desire to buy increases, the demand for the population increases. We can say that despite the press news of the last few days and your own, heightened and capable of leading the public and raising fear, shopping is no more important than a milder Christmas shopping mood. Moreover, we clearly see that the trading partners, the trade chains, are already prepared for the Easter shopping, so they also have significantly larger stocks. In fact, it can also be said that, thanks to the significant economic performance of recent years, retail consumption has also increased in recent years. Thus, the representatives of the trade chains have become accustomed to serving this, and therefore there is no way to talk about a shortage of goods. It is also clear that even if certain products are consumed locally, in some areas, on some shelves, some products are still available to meet consumption needs. Honourable Congressman, I would strongly like to reject your position that the government is not communicating clearly and intelligibly. Last week, we made it clear and clear what the current situation is in trade, what the current situation is with regard to food safety, what measures we are taking to ensure that security of supply is maintained in the near future and in the long term. On the other hand, I can also tell you, and we also stressed this last week, that we are in constant contact with our trading partners, the trade association, and that we can take further measures in cooperation whenever necessary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Attila Móring József, on behalf of the KDNP, asked for a speech before the next agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian village programme is the largest programme in Hungary, aimed at the development of settlements under the five thousand inhabitants and strengthening its population conservation power, which was supported by the government in 2019 by HUF 150 billion. Half of this amount was awarded in the form of invitations to tender to municipal or ecclesiastical beneficiaries. In the other half, the government provided HUF 50 billion for the renovation of lower roads and HUF 25 billion for the village family home-building discount. For the villages, the 100 percent sponsored applications of the Hungarian village programme are a huge opportunity, since they do not have to have self-strength. It is also clear from the willingness to apply that the Hungarian village programme builds on measures to improve local quality of life, meets real needs and helps to continuously improve the quality of life of people living in villages. The main loser of government operations between 2002-2010 was rural Hungary, especially the people of the villages. Public services are broken down, kindergartens, schools are closed, community transport lines are closed, village municipalities are indebted. This period was a major loser of local, typically small enterprises operating in villages and small towns. In recent years, however, these small businesses have regained strength and are now experiencing a lack of capacity. At the same time, the amount of support for the Hungarian village is smaller, and according to the village needs they amount to a few million or a few ten million forints. Thus, these jobs are particularly favourable for local businesses. After the tenders are prefinanced, the municipalities can pay the entrepreneur immediately, so they don't have to wait for their money. Dear House, It is a pleasure that this year will continue, and even the Hungarian village programme will be expanded. The budget also records this year that at least HUF 150 billion will be allocated to the development of the countryside, but according to the government's decision additional funds will be allocated to additional areas, additional road maintenance and support for village NGOs, with a total value of HUF 12.5 billion. It is already known that this year there will be at least as much resources as last year for the program of the Hungarian village. It is also known that the village family home-building discount scheme and the development of a public side road network linking villages with small towns and supporting local development to improve quality of life will surely continue. While the beneficiaries of the village CSOK are private individuals, the beneficiary of the development of the public road network is the public road operator, and the beneficiaries of the proposals for the improvement of the quality of life will be municipalities and municipal associations. In 2019 we spent HUF 50 billion on road development, from which we could start work on some 400 kilometres of roads, and this year we can calculate at least that. This year, the Village Civil Fund will become available for tender, providing assistance to civil society organisations operating in settlements with less than five thousand inhabitants, established or established there. This framework will be five billion forints, you will be able to apply for events and tools. We know that civil society organisations play a crucial role in ensuring that a local community is full of life. In addition to local authorities, representative bodies and mayors, civil society organisations are the engines of local communities. It is enough to mention voluntary fire brigades, sports clubs, youth clubs, retirement clubs and local patriot organizations. These organisations, in addition to carrying out specific activities, are also doing almost without exception to maintain the local community and improve its quality of life, and it is therefore appropriate to provide them with additional support. The government has already launched three applications within the framework of this year's "Hungarian Village" programme, this time it is possible to apply for the construction of a medical service apartment, the construction and renovation of medical offices and the purchase of medical devices. Local authorities have a number of new ideas beyond the current options, and it is enough to mention only the road construction programme to open up sacks or the drafting of initiatives to renovate bus stops. About 2800 municipalities participated in the programme, 82 percent of applicants have been supported so far. On behalf of the rural people, I would like to thank my fellow Member Alpár Gyopáros, Commissioner of Government, and ask the government to maintain and support the Hungarian village programme in the coming years, since even the smallest settlement in my constituency, Libickozma, with 41 people, could grow by a village bus worth HUF 15 million. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-22	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Balázs Orbán indicated his wish to respond on behalf of the government.
u2020-03-02-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary is determined to maintain and increase the number of people living in small settlements, to improve their quality of life and, in this context, to develop settlements in general. [[12.00]] In order to achieve these objectives, we launched the Hungarian village programme in 2019. The main objective of the programme, as you mentioned, is to increase the population retention power of settlements of less than 5000 people, to strengthen the way in which small settlements live in general and to help rural housing. The programme takes a complex approach. Our aim is to mitigate the disadvantages associated with the quality of life in small settlements and to ensure basic public services, which, as you mentioned after the regime change, were not available to the smallest settlements because of the neglected and poor economic and urban development policy of the previous governments. In this context, and therefore, the government has set the objective of improving the health care system, improving the effectiveness and effectiveness of the basic health care system, and we want the territorial inequalities of basic health care to be reduced as a result of improvements affecting these smallest municipalities. If we are allowed to say this, we believe that the 2019 data will ensure the success and validity of the program. More than HUF 58.4 billion of Hungarian funding was granted by the Prime Minister's Office and the amounts awarded were fully paid in 2019. More than 85 percent of 2797 municipalities won at least one tender. These proposals, more specifically, these grants are always non-refundable, 100% domestic grants, which are insured in the form of an advance of 100%. In the 2019-year project, 22 applications were made to ensure the housing of doctors and health workers working in small settlements. From the basic medical practice programme, the number of applications supported was 190, while the number of applications supported by the medical device sub-programme was 783. I think that these figures also prove that these improvements are necessary, and that is why we decided that the programme elements related to medical care will continue in 2020 within the framework of the Hungarian village programme. Proposals will be published at more pace this year. The entire programme includes 150 billion HUF of funding this year as well. In addition to these sub-programmes, separate amounts should also be included for the development of this side road network and for the support of the village CSOK programme. The government has already decided on the provision of budget resources for HUF 40 billion through these sub-programmes, and the first proposals have already been announced. In the same way as in 2019 and 2020 there will be no self-reliance on the municipalities, and the municipalities with lower tax power will benefit. We operate a flexible, fast tender evaluation system. 60 days are available for administration and these applications will be evaluated within 60 days and 90 days respectively. Call for proposals will be scheduled again this year. In the first phase, three sub-programmes were published on 24 February 2020. These are available on kormany.hu: medical care accommodation program, development of medical clinics and purchase of medical supplies. The funding envelope for these sub-programmes amounts to HUF 7 billion this year. The tender platform will be open on 25 March and applications may be submitted on 24 April. I would also encourage all stakeholders to apply, and I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen in Congress for their support. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-02-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, from Fidesz, asked for a speech before the next agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-03-02-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, The current issue is that, two months ago, we did not think that, in addition to the migratory pressure, Europe would face a challenge on an unimaginable scale, such as the case of the Crown Virus from China. The good news is that the virus is not yet affected in Hungary. The worse news is that, in view of trends in neighbouring countries or countries in the area, there is little chance that Hungary will be able to avoid having one. The Hungarian Government will do everything in its power to protect the health of Hungarian people. Preventive measures are implemented through an operational tribe that brings together the activities of the special fields, so the first word is thanks for the government's rapid work and the professionalism of the operational tribe. Hungary not only follows and implements the recommendations of the WHO, but also takes action beyond that. In this context, the operational staff announced a 28-point action plan and measures. These include, among other things, the screening mechanisms of border crossings and airports, the preventive measures of railway companies, the tasks of the production of protective equipment and the various institutional trainings; furthermore, the exceptional information arrangements that may be put in place if necessary. The leaders of the parliamentary factions were invited to a meeting last Thursday by the Minister of the Interior. If we all accept it and joint political communication points in the direction that this is one of the most important problems that threaten our country, then I must admit frankly, I have listened to my fellow Member Arató's speech and I do not understand his tone, because there were quite a few of us in the Ministry of Internal Affairs who did not come, of course, because it was certainly more important than that, but Mr Arató was not so angry at this meeting, and he could also learn that he could get answers to everything, whether verbally or in writing. I find it a little shady, a little distasteful, that the Ministry of Interior settlement went down in a peaceful, constructive tone, and here you have said what you have heard. I note here that it was the Democratic Coalition that, at the time of last year's budget, presented proposals for amendments that would have halved the National Defence Fund and would have completely eliminated the funds for extraordinary government measures. I would also like to note that it was Mr Arató who received an exhaustive answer from the Minister of the Interior to all his questions. Putting this aside, let's turn back to the fact that it is an important and common matter. We certainly have three things to do in the Hungarian Parliament. One of the things we also assured the Minister of Interior at the meeting is that, if necessary, Parliament is prepared to take on the agenda any proposed and intended amendment of the law, whether in extraordinary proceedings, i.e. urgent or exceptional proceedings. Our second task is not to cause panic, especially without reason. There is a huge role for all political players, including the media, and there is also a need for no criticisms in the political arena that are suitable for false publicity. Here is the other problem that we have to address: false publicity, rumors are still a crime, and it is true that the Cyber Protection Department of the National Bureau of Investigation has already abolished such a network and Internet network, but this process is not expected to stop. We must therefore also prepare and ask the Ministry of the Interior to examine the gravity of that problem and propose a solution to how this can spread during the existence of a coronal virus epidemic and how it can be contained. This problem must not be added, and I would also like to turn to our next task, which is likely to be necessary even before the Parliament. We need to take action against those who profit from ineffective medical products, and not only false rumors, but also ineffective medical products and protective equipment can be at least as harmful, taking advantage of the health concerns of concerned people. For many, this appears on the basis of a desire for profit. [[12.10]] And I would also like to stress to you, as a closing point, that all political forces, all media platforms, are not only responsible but also responsible for encouraging people to calm down and act together. That's what we're asking the government to do. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-26	Thank you very much. State Secretary Balázs Orbán indicated that he would like to reply on behalf of the government.
u2020-03-02-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, As has been said several times here today, the government is treating the coronal virus epidemic as a priority, the operational tribe is operating continuously, taking the necessary measures. As colleagues have already mentioned, we still do not know about a coronal virus patient in Hungary. Not only do we want to follow and implement the recommendations of the WHO, the World Health Organisation, but we also want to take measures that go beyond that to protect the health of Hungarian people. So far, we've been successfully defending ourselves against the coronal virus, but we're also prepared for the virus to appear. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the government acting and taking the necessary measures, Hungarian citizens can do much to prevent it. I would therefore like to draw attention here to the fact that, in addition to the 28-point action plan, which has already been discussed, there is also a 10-point call that we have sent to the population and made public towards the population. Most importantly, the government asks the public not to travel to infected areas, if one does, then register with the consular service. The operational tribe will monitor the situation and, if necessary, take further measures. The police, as has also been said, are carrying out checks on border crossing points; at airports, it is also automatic to control passengers coming from infected areas. National chief of staff, the National Public Health Center, has been working day and night, preparing hospitals and general practitioners. At St. Laszlo Hospital, there are 18 people under surveillance at the moment. In our country there are 29 infectological departments, the number of beds is more than 800. The center of care is St. Laszlo Hospital. The National Centre for Public Health has a laboratory that is only internationally accredited in Central and Eastern Europe; it takes a few hours to confirm the presence of a new coronal virus if that occurs or to rule out infection clearly. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall provide information and assistance to Hungarian citizens in the affected areas through the consular service. Mr Fraction Manager has also mentioned matters relating to supply issues and rumors. The government understands people's fear of coronal virus infection and the resulting accumulation of food, but according to experts, as has also been said here earlier, this is not justified. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology is responsible for trade policy and is in contact with trade professional organisations, is constantly informed about the state of food supply, and there is no reason to panic. In the future, we will act with competitive tools against badly-intentioned market players exploiting the coronal virus epidemic. Consumer protection has started to examine the price and quality of long-term foods and hand sanitizers in order to detect future unfair market practices. We find it unacceptable that someone wants to profit from the concerns about the corona virus and the measures that have been taken. In addition, police action on rumors is ongoing. According to the latest press conference of the operational tribe, WHO has raised the level of risk of a coronal virus epidemic from high to very high, but Hungary has not been affected in the recommendations. So far, 125 samples have been tested in laboratories, more than 400 people have been checked at road border crossing points, almost 5,000 at airports. Almost 1433 people called the information green number, but more than 605 letters were sent to the e-mail addresses. The majority of illegal migrants came from Iran or Iran. In the case of Iran, we know of 978 diseases and 54 deaths, which is why the Government of Hungary has decided to suspend the admission of new people to the transit zone for an indefinite period in order to protect more than 300 people and the country. The masks were mentioned in your speech. The masks are available, as State Secretary Kontrat said, the prison execution produces masks in full capacity. These are constantly available in the right places or in the pharmacy. The Hungarian Government considers the health and health of Hungarian people a national issue, and we will do everything in our power to ensure that the virus freedom continues to be maintained, so we will thank you for any support that serves this purpose. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have now reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. On this day's agenda, Mr Szimeon Varga, a Bulgarian nationalist spokesperson; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP; Zita Gurmai, on behalf of the MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, on behalf of Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, on behalf of Jobbik; Félix Farkas, a Roma nationalist; Zsolt Nyitrai, on behalf of Fidesz; Lóránt Keresztes, on behalf of LMP; Zoltán Varga, on behalf of DK; László Sebian-Petrovski, on behalf of DK and Tibor Bana, on behalf of Jobbik. Now, at 12:15 p.m., we're gonna start discussing immediate questions. [[Interventions from the opposition benches: Simple questions!]] Sorry about the simple questions, yeah. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: . has been created, but it is not enough! A few words about PEDOGUE ROOMS with the title "Emergency." Congressman Ander Balázs shall have the floor.
u2020-03-02-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to begin with a quote, in the National Pedagogical Faculty's first year of school, it is in the interest of the whole country to educate and educate teachers in institutions who are professionally prepared, feel their job as a profession, perform their work successfully, and receive wages for their work that enable them to live an intellectual life. Let's look at reality now, let's see if we can get enough of this freshly promised 10 percent increase. We are very far from the level when, at the end of the Klebelsberg period, 16 percent of the gross domestic product was awarded the cult wallet, which was then thought to be the new Ministry of Defence. Much of the post-2013 wage increase you have often referred to has now been inhibited, and by now, a graduate worker working in McDonald's sban's initial salary exceeds a beginner's teacher. When the minimum wage of the skilled worker is practically equal to the salary of the beginner teachers, it has a legal negative impact on the social perception of the teacher's field. Perhaps it is no coincidence that only one of the 120 graduates of the Budapest and elite Fazekas High School chose this profession as a further education goal last year, and according to ELTE's Teacher Training Center, only five students have applied to be physics and chemistry teachers. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that 1900 of the 5800 graduates in 2013 have left the Cathedral in five years, so 32 percent have left the Cathedral. So I ask you, as heroes of everyday life, when do teachers who have been responsible for the success of integration, sometimes spit on, beaten and humiliated, and many other tasks in public speaking, when do they make the basis for wage calculation a minimum wage? I would like to hear only one date, Mr. Secretary. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-03-02-30	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári shall have the floor.
u2020-03-02-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You forgot to say in your speech that, by the way, when you could have voted on a teacher's wage increase, a salary increase for school directors, you did not support it here in Parliament. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Salad Law!]] That's the only detail you missed in your speech. Honourable Congressman, In recent years, since 2010, our total national product has increased by 23.9 percent, by almost 25 percent, while in the case of teachers, we started a payroll program in 2013, and you referred to this. This was a 50 per cent general wage increase programme, and we would like to continue this with an additional 10 per cent bonus, continuing to increase the rate of teachers' wages from 1 July this year. So there was a much higher rate of teacher's wage increase, we can also say that from 1 July, the percentage of teacher's wage increase was twice as high as the percentage of the increase in the total national product. [[12.20]] It also shows that the rise in the economy is obviously important to us, fortunately this shows a good proportion in the European context, but it was even more important to raise the wages of teachers, and we increased the wages of teachers in a much higher proportion than the increase of the total national product in Hungary. This has a number of consequences. One is that the percentage and number of people admitted to the state scholarship at universities, if you look at it, has increased from 5422 in 2010 to 8658 in 2019. Our job is to finish the university, start the activity on the teaching field, and stay on the teaching field, and do not leave the teaching field. It's our job together. One start-up wage rose by 78 percent, 102,000 HUF in this ten-year cycle. With whom you are a political alliance, they can only report that a month's wages have been taken from all teachers. We can report that we have raised the salary of a career beginner by HUF 102,000, which is 78 percent. But if you've worked 20 years, you've got a university degree, you're a teacher. He's in grade, 113 percent, a teacher with 20 years of college education. His salary rose by 122 percent in grade. As I told you, in the case of school principals, Parliament has accepted a large wage increase. You did not support this. Not only are the school principals, but their deputies and head of the member institution half the size of the school directors, but they also receive a wage increase, and even for them, a special incentive supplement will be introduced for managers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-02-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology: By answering the question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister without the portfolio responsible for the management of national assets, Andrea Bártfai-Mager, who is competent and competent under the theme. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-02-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Last week, it was announced that the measures adopted include the need to pay more attention to public transport. This concerns MÁV, GYSEV and Volan companies. The various cleaning devices, detergents and additional means of measuring body temperature shall be provided. In addition, it was noted that, for example, ticket monitors on MÁV flights should be prepared for possible infected passengers. In front of me, Máté Kocsis said that inefficient protective equipment must be combated. Last week it was found out that one of the government's favourite companies, Gladiolus Kft. which has won several billion forints of state subsidies and is a supplier of schools, kindergartens, social institutions [[Máté Kocsis: What makes the government's favourite company? What do you mean, his favorite company?]] For years, the police, the capital, the MÁV and the parliament have been selling products that do not contain antiseptic agents. The MÁV got some of it. If you don't have this coronal virus, you won't even know how that company cheated for years. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State whether there will be consequences. Did you immediately terminate the contract with this company? Will there be a procedure against the company, and what has been said here is consumer protection, and will all other products be examined very quickly? Secretary of State, today's experience. My colleague and I took the train. How do you clean it? By the way, thank God, I hope at least now that the virus is being cleaned up at the MÁV. How do you clean the trains if, say, the train is half an hour late, and you only have so much time to get to West Station and you have to leave? Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to come with me to the West Station and see what tools are being cleaned up. So, this is people's bullshit, what they're doing, and then they're telling Parliament not to panic. There will be consequences of what the company has done. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and actual cleaning will finally be done on public transport? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-02-34	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I must point out that the question you asked was not entirely in line with what you said. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The situation has changed!]] So Mr. Secretary of State would have the opportunity to refuse the answer, and I'll ask him to do it. [[For signal:]] But it indicates no, so you'll get the answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your question is of public interest, so, of course, I will answer, forwarding that I am pleased to see that not only the trains are late, you too have overdid your time. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: That was pretty weak! Weak!]] MÁV and Railway Health Nonprofit Közhasznú Kft. maintain constant contact with the operational strain responsible for the control of coronal virus infection, the health authority, acting on the basis of their guidance on stations and trains, ensuring the necessary conditions. The railway undertaking has defined the list of posts concerned, the number of posts involved, the articles used to control the coronal virus and the quantities prepared in the starter pack, and has also prepared the ordering of the necessary reserve stocks. The ticket companies of MÁV-Start have already received hand sanitizer; here I note, not the one you mentioned, but another hand sanitizer from another company. In the case raised by you, the MÁV immediately initiated an investigation and took the necessary measures. The railway undertaking has distributed a health unit package containing medical mouth masks, hand sanitizer gels, antiseptic wipes, rubber gloves to about 500 railway passengers who are in direct contact with passengers on international trains. We have delivered 1,600 unit packages to every board of directors from which international flights start. The thermometer was also included in his original question. We've got about a hundred non-touch thermometers on the train stations. The MÁV continuously checks the cleaning of each railway wagon, not at random. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I am convinced that the railway has taken the conscientious and expected steps in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Minister of State was late. Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2020-03-02-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-37	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The history of the hospital is closely linked to the story of Újpest. The son of Count István Károlyi, Count Sándor Károlyi, founding the Újpest settlement, has done a great deal for the settlement, the church, the infrastructure and public health. Árpád Hospital was founded in 1905 as Újpest Children's Hospital and has been a health institution ever since. Since 2014, the hospital has been out of operation, given the fact that the government transferred its activities to the Honvéd Hospital with a feather stroke. In addition, by ignoring the opinion of the government's population in Újpest, 1194/2019. Decision No.3 decided to convert the building of the Árpád Road Hospital into a workhouse, and HUF 1.3 billion was intended for this purpose. Prior to the elections, implementation was suspended as a result of the Újpest outrage. On 28 November 2019, in consultation with the Mayor of Újpest, Tibor Déri, we were promised that the government would not invest in the building of Árpád Hospital without the knowledge and consent of the Municipality of Újpest. Since then, on the initiative of the mayor, we have learned that dangerous outdoor parts and fences are being demolished in the hospital area. I ask, on the basis of all this, Mr State Secretary, you think it is a good idea that the Újpest Hospital has been closed, especially with regard to the capacity gaps in the emergency department of the Honvéd Hospital. When will the inpatient care facility planned in the area of Károlyi Hospital be built? Will the building of Árpád Hospital continue to be exploited on the basis of cooperation? When will that government decision be repealed? Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-03-02-38	Thank you, Congressman. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás will answer.
u2020-03-02-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian government wants the opinion of all Hungarian citizens. In many cases, we directly ask citizens to express their views on matters of interest to them and their concerns. This is clearly the case with the capital. [[12.30]] There have been many lengthy debates between Parliament's walls on health and hospital matters. You have also held or held such a debate and have repeatedly argued with the Secretary of State of the EMMI. From these debates, I believe that it must have been obvious to you that, during your administration, you have caused enormous damage to health, since until 2010, you have removed about 16,000 active beds, taken away from the patients, and about 6,000 medical workers have been dismissed. And you started tearing down the supply at the hospital in Újpest, because you closed classes, you took the funding, and you made it impossible for the hospital itself. Since 2010, we have been trying with great effort, obviously with the cooperation and work of the people, to compensate for the damage caused by the Gyurcsány era to health. [[László Varju and Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervene.]] We have stabilized the operation of hospitals, huge improvements have been made, and the residents of Újpest, the IV. Circuit residents are also provided with both outpatient and inpatient care. The design contract for the infrastructure development of Károlyi Hospital was signed in December 2019. This is expected to take about a year and a half. Then the public procurement and the execution can begin. So health care is provided to all in Újpest. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice:. What do you get out of EU funds? It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Tamás Schanda will answer the question. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-02-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Then, of course, I will ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, which is responsible for everything. Dear Secretary of State, Negotiations on the next EU budget for the period 2021 to 27 have started. It is already apparent that nothing will be the same as it was before, since the Brexit leaves the second largest net contributor to the EU budget and about EUR 60 billion will be missing from the register. Meanwhile, priorities have also changed: the share of the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy in budget will continue to decline and, for the first time, the so-called new priorities, namely climate protection, protection of external borders, migration, defence policy, innovation will receive more than the two classic items from the common budget. I think it's very right. These new priorities are all goals that are very important to the Hungarian people. But at least this important issue is that in the coming years, the funds allocated to Hungary will be spent enough money on matters that directly affect people, or we will see again from the government that EU funds will be distributed along the lines of political bargaining and private businesses, and that large businesses close to the government will receive funds, as the public rightly resented in recent tourist developments. I ask, therefore, that after 2021, it will be really important for the Hungarian people to achieve goals such as insulation and energy modernisation of residential properties, while at last supporting the installation of much more efficient solar panels for the general public. Is Jute going to make money from the EU to support research and development plans of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises instead of polishing them so far, or will the government support the multinationals with this money again? And my last question is what guarantees they can give Hungarian people that EU funds will significantly improve the quality of life of Hungarian people and contribute to the success of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-02-42	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the opportunity to answer.
u2020-03-02-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Although the EU budget period after 2021 is only in the planning phase, the government has an accurate and decisive vision for the future. We believe that an ambitious Europe needs an ambitious budget. Unfortunately, this is not what the current proposal aims at. The objectives, such as border protection, digitalisation, industrial policy, agriculture, cohesion, infrastructure development, cannot be financed with the same amount of money that was available in the budgetary period up to 2020. In fact, Hungary would have significantly less resources than in the current cycle if the plans of the Brussels bureaucrats were to be real. We are in the debate stage, honourable Member. In agreement with several other Member States, we have suggested that the calculations should be aligned with the European Parliament's proposal to pay 1.3 percent of all 27 Member States' gross national income into the budget. As long as there is no agreement on the extent of the payment, it is not possible to talk about the distribution of the budget, as we do not know how much money can be distributed. We believe that we are still far from the agreement, and we still have serious debates ahead of us. To this end, we also ask the support of opposition representatives to establish the EU budget in accordance with the Hungarian interest. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government's objectives are clear: Hungary should be one of the five most livable and competitive countries in Europe by 2030, because we are building a country where every Hungarian family and enterprise can experience the growth of our country in everyday life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Márta Demeter: But how will it be best to live?]]
u2020-03-02-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of the national asset management:. Change the sale of the property in Balatonősdöd in order to allow the coastal section to be used freely by the holidaymakers and residents of the settlement? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years, the number of freely accessible areas on the shore of Lake Balaton has decreased dramatically, although the Balaton Act also calls it as a priority that the availability of Lake Balaton is a public interest. The majority of the shore of Lake Balaton is closed in Balatonőszöd, so the accessibility of Lake Balaton would be particularly important there. The Hungarian National Property Agency Zrt. announced the former Balatonősöd government resort for sale. The government now has the opportunity to achieve the aim of the waterfront access provided by the Lake Balaton Act. My questions are: are you going to modify the auction notice by removing the 30-metre band from the real estate package to be sold on the waterfront of the property in order to establish a beach promenade? Will the relevant coastal section be transferred to the management of the local government by free transfer of assets if it cannot exercise its pre-emptive right without the resources? I think the situation is very simple. You don't have to lawyer either, because last week, Fidesz suspended a final court ruling here, so that's probably not gonna be an obstacle. Money shouldn't be a problem because the economy is soaring. The Prime Minister said that the past decade has been the most successful in the last hundred years of Hungarian history. And there can be no discussion between us in the principles, because last week, Minister of State Balázs Orbán replied to me that the government wants Balaton to walk around and cycle around. So now is the time to hand over the Lake Balaton to the people in a place as symbolic as Balatonőd. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-02-46	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2020-03-02-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There is no reason to change the terms of the sale of the real estate complex, since the Hungarian National Asset Manager is CXXXIX of 2018 on the spatial planning of certain priority areas of Hungary. Act 71. In accordance with paragraph 3 of § 3, the auction notice specifically drew the auctioneers' attention to the fact that the successful auctioneer on the waterfront must ensure a range of 30 metres wide along the coast, which cannot be excluded from public use and allow the construction of a coastal promenade. On the basis of the above, therefore, the establishment of the coastal promenade does not require the registration of the municipality's ownership or the right of trustee; it is possible to establish it on the basis of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the LMP benches.]] In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, the auction notice specifically drew the auctioneer's attention to the fact that the successful auctioneer on the waterfront must ensure a range of 30 metres wide, which cannot be excluded from public use, and allow the establishment of a coastal promenade. On the basis of the above, therefore, the establishment of the coastal promenade does not require the registration of the municipality's ownership or the right of trustee; it is possible to establish it on the basis of the law. Thank you very much. (Applause from the governing parties, sporadic applause from the benches of the LMP. ) [[12.40]]
u2020-03-02-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When is the final phase of the Jászberény bypass expected to be completed? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2020-03-02-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I am happy to report that road development has been delivered in Jászság in recent months worth nearly six billion forints. The interior section of the Szolnok-Jászkisér connecting road has been renewed, the section of the 32 main road between Jászfény-Jászberény, the outskirt section of the Szolnok-Jászkisér connecting road after Jászkisér, the new road sections for the approach to the Jászfényszaru industrial park have also been completed, and a significant part of the road connecting the Pusztamostor with Jászászárok accommodation has also been completed. The constructions have not only renewed the road surfaces, numerous bus stops have been renovated, new tape rails, reflective prisms have been created, KRESZ boards have been replaced, trees along the roads have also been installed. These improvements are important in the area, thanks to the high-quality, renovated road sections, transport becomes safer, faster and more comfortable. We were also very pleased to learn in September that archaeologists had begun the necessary preventive explorations on the trail of the last stage of the Jászberény bypass. The construction of the road section is a long-awaited, decisive development for both the region and the city of Jászberény. Therefore, thanks to the government's efforts so far, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: when is the final phase of the Jászberény bypass expected to be completed? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-50	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-03-02-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The development of Hungary's road transport is of strategic importance, and therefore the government's aim is to ensure that cities with county rights are accessible faster and safer, and that a four-track road section is available from any point of the country within half an hour. This is a record, and it shows the government's commitment to this. The high-quality road network is important for Hungarian people and businesses, for the entire Hungarian economy. Safe and fast access affects the economic development of an area and the quality of life of its inhabitants. In order to improve local quality of life, it is at least as important to facilitate the relief of municipalities and the diversion of transit traffic from inland areas by building avoidative stages. During last year's revision of the road programme, the government decided to include the third and final phase of the Jászberény escape route among the investments to be carried out. The new one-track section of the road is built between highways 31 and 32 at a length of 4.5 kilometres. The project is implemented from a domestic budget of HUF 8.5 billion. The procurement procedure for the selection of the contractor is already underway and, if it is successfully concluded, a contract is expected to be concluded this spring. The works will then start in the first half of 2020 and will be completed in the second half of 2022 depending on progress. Thanks to the development, the Jászberényi get rid of air pollution, noise load and increased accident risk caused by vehicles and trucks passing through the city. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Belátja the Government finally sees that inadequate government action plays a major role in the growth of youth unemployment? Has the failures of recent years encouraged the government to act? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the latest KSH data, the number of unemployed aged 15-24 increased by 8300 between September and November last year compared to the same period of the previous year, representing a unemployment rate of 13.2 per cent. Growth has been steady over the last two years, making it one in four unemployed young people. When we talk about these data, it is not possible to ignore many of the government's faulty decisions that have led us here. For example, the reduction of the education obligation from 18 to 16 years has helped to achieve a significant increase in the proportion of young people who are neither a student nor a working 17-year-old from the pre-school age. However, the lack of experience in the vocational training system could be mentioned here, namely that the failure of the graduation program has not reduced the number of stuck degrees, or the fact that you have to come home, young man! The failure of the programme, but a number of other misguided government decisions, could be mentioned. Dear Secretary of State, You will certainly agree that the situation of young people in the labour market needs to be closely monitored, as it is essential to help young people find jobs and, on the one hand, to provide an adequate number of young people with skills as a new recruitable workforce. It is a cliché, but it is important to say that, when young people enter the labour market, it is important to make the education system competitive, which we are constantly pushing for. If they do not place sufficient emphasis on this in the future, it is expected that they will only increase the migration trend of young people abroad and that they will not be able to reduce domestic unemployment. So I ask you: do you realise that misguided government actions and little concrete assistance have led to an increase in the number of unemployed among young people and, above all, of young people? In view of these data, why has no more meaningful measures been taken for this age group? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-03-02-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to start by saying that instead of speaking politically, we should really focus on the facts. When Fidesz-KDNP took over government from your ally, the employment rate of young people aged 15-24 was 17.8 percent. By the third quarter of 2019 this figure increased to 29,2 percent, i.e. it increased by almost 40 percent during that period. So it can be said that the good Lord protects the young Hungarians from returning those who could not give them an opportunity or a future. In the EU, we are preventing countries in this respect, honourable Member, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, but also Belgium, for example. In the southern states, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Italy and most of the former Central and Eastern European countries, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Latvia also work less young people than we do. In terms of unemployment, in 2010, the unemployment rate for young people aged 15-24 was 26.6%. You will remember that this happened during the period when the government lived its agony against which you are supposed to be formed, and now you are selling with them on a diamond, and you want to bring this government, the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány back into power. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] According to the latest measurement of KSH, youth unemployment fell to 10.9 per cent in the period November 2019 and January 2020, corresponding to a half percentage point improvement compared to a year earlier. Increasing youth employment and facilitating their first entry into the labour market are the government's key employment policy objectives, which we have already taken a number of measures to achieve. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-56	Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What do you intend to do to ensure that playgrounds do not endanger the physical integrity of our children? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-02-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The capital is XVI. a new playground was handed over in October 2019 in the area of Reformators. With the HUF 400 million investment, they seemed to be in a hurry to boast about it before the municipal elections. At the handover, the government was also represented by Minister Gergely Gulyás. After a few days, it turned out that the slides were extremely dangerous. A little girl broke her tibia the first time she slipped, another kid had to get her knees cast. [[12.50]] There was also a child whose teeth broke out on the slide, which was too fast, too sharp turns, and so the children hit with great force. Péter Kovács, your mayor, has also admitted that, as he said, there is a problem with slides. But the mistakes haven't been corrected. In fact, the Fidesz leaders of the district refuse to deal with the parents'complaints. Your people don't care about the safety of children. However, this cannot remain so. We believe that this case has clearly shown that we need to review the rules on playgrounds. We cannot allow other children to suffer a serious accident because Fidesz has more important political victory reports than children's physical integrity. So I ask Mr Secretary of State that he is aware of the serious child accidents caused by slides. Can parents of children who have been injured go to the ministry for help? Will the wallet initiate any investigation into the case? What are you going to do to prevent similar cases from happening in the future? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-02-58	Thank you. I give the answer to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2020-03-02-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Children are very important to the Hungarian government, it is very important that children can study safely, live safe, live safe in their families, and, of course, also be safe in public areas. Nevertheless, the fundamental fact is that in Hungary no goods, equipment or constructions which can cause injury or cause injury under proper use may be placed on the market or put into use. Very strict rules apply and standards have been developed for the development and regular review of playground devices, a fully regulated system. There is every possibility that these devices can be used without accident for children. In what you call the 16th. In connection with the district, it is factual that after the opening of the playground, nine registered injuries, eight children and one adult were injured on the playground slide. By the way, the playground slide was not made in a storm tempo or for the election, much earlier, the slide was completed in the summer, it received the required qualification, the TÜV test was carried out, and it was considered regular and usable, and the certificate was issued. Then the area around him was settled, so the slide was ready long before, and, as I said, it was checked. There's a police report on this case, and the police are investigating that there's been a miscarriage. It is not true that the municipality does not deal with the case. They contacted all the victims, filed a report, and examined the circumstances of the accidents. The slide has already been rebuilt on one occasion, the next remodeling takes place this week, because they think the sliders are too fast. But I'll tell you again, this slide also had the necessary certification and the certificate of viability. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-02-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. When will the government account for the solidarity contribution? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-61	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The nationalisation of public education buildings also took place in 2017. Although these buildings were taken from municipalities without compensation, they realized that they needed money to maintain them, and they thought that this money could best be taken from municipalities with a tax power of HUF 34,000. This money is an increasing obligation for 168 municipalities. This means, among other things, that, as a result of the great protest, this amount to be paid was withdrawn from 26 billion to 62 percent higher in 2017, to 43 billion, and in the last three years the total withdrawal of more than 106 billion was taken from the municipalities. A significant proportion of these 168 municipalities are, by the way, contributors that pay back more to the State than the State grants them as a normative measure. There are several factors that need to be paid. The deposit I just mentioned is just one of the guys. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State how much more of this shit they're gonna pull off us. Is there any accounting for this 106 billion forints towards local governments? On the other hand, I would like to ask you that for this particular account which has not yet occurred, because if a civil society organisation or a church receives support, it is obliged to account for it. Will the government do that? Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-03-02-62	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-03-02-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, the buildings were not nationalized by the state, as you said in your speech. The operation was taken over by the State, not the property of the buildings, so it remained the property of the municipalities. Indeed, from 2017 onwards, solidarity contributions will have to be paid to municipalities where local tax is higher, in particular business tax revenue, in order to reorganise the task of public education. The number of these municipalities is over 100 out of 3200, but their number is decreasing year after year. The aim of this measure is to ensure that public education is financed, on the one hand, and that the allocation of resources between municipalities is fair. Because it is not fair that some municipalities are rich in wealth, while other municipalities are unable to perform their basic tasks. By the way, this redirection of resources was not unknown during socialist governance, and it also existed in your time. As far as the accounts are concerned, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, on the one hand, the budget reports which are presented to Parliament contain these re-alignments of funds, on the other hand, the State Audit Office is monitoring the state budget accounts annually, the use of resources, and, on the third, the state bodies are also checking them. I think that the source that will be reorganized will, in accordance with its purpose, increase the resources for the operation of public education, and that is fair. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question: Why do they not deal with the resolution of the housing crisis? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, How is it possible for your central bank president to see what you don't want to see for some reason? This is that the situation of Hungarian housing is deplorable. Your uncontrolled economic policy has led to the fact that, in addition to the runaway property prices, rent prices have become priceless for an average income Hungarian. The fact is that the Hungarian capital is currently the sixth most expensive in Europe, as far as housing prices are concerned, and in relation to salary, and we did not invent this, but the President of the Central Bank, who is delegated by you. The housing tragedy is the whole country's problem, and in addition to unsustainable housing prices, rent prices are skyrocketing according to real estate brokers' data. I note quietly that I do not trust the data of the HCSO because they are as accurate as the rate of inflation was measured. So you have to pay 160,000 HUF per month for an average apartment in Budapest. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, No one can manage this 160,000 forints on average or on a median wage. My question is why the government is not able to start a decent rental program, why it lets the municipal tenements go down and why they allow short-term rentals benefiting from various tax incentives, from which there are approximately ten thousand units in Budapest to fall off the rent market and even make the lives of the people of the condos more difficult. You're proud to spend the money on all kinds of visual investment, how can you not get the money for this? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[13.00]]
u2020-03-02-66	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-03-02-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think you know what the basic purpose of the government is: the basic purpose of the government is to give every Hungarian family, as far as possible, their own home. To say that this government does not address the housing of Hungarian families [[Antal Csárdi: I didn't say that!]] that is simply impossible, because, for example, only in 2020 the budget includes HUF 2200 billion, which is spent on families by the budget, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament. In 2019 21,000 apartments were built, which is 20 percent higher than in 2018, which also means that the number of newly built apartments has been increasing since the sixth year of government measures. If I may, I would like to list some of the measures and their effects. [[Antal Csárdi: Answer me, please.]] This is the family home creation discount, which has been operating since July 1, 2015, affects 130 thousand families in Hungary, and the amount of applications submitted is already over HUF 400 billion. But a special measure is the introduction of the village CSOK, which could amount to a grant of up to HUF 10 million for people living in the village for the purchase and renovation of a used apartment or house; this affects 2500 settlements. But for those who do not want an apartment, but who may have to move to another city because of their workplace, I could say the tax relief for the construction and renovation of the apartments, you can get support for the construction of the working accommodations, and I could tell, but since that's what it took for two minutes, I would like to thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-68	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. Volkswagen has also been subject to the principle of environmental tightening of the multi-national environment, the "polluting pays" principle? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who is competent and responsible for the subject, to answer the question at the request of the Minister Tamás Schanda State Secretary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Orbán announced the price of climate protection in his Christmas interview, but he also promised to punish the polluters in his year-end evaluation. According to the Századvég, 83 percent of people expect a stronger response from the Hungarian government against the large pollutants. The only question is that this also applies to the Volkswagen Group, because Hungary is the only Member State in the whole Union where the company has not been subject to any sanctions due to the massive falsification of emissions data in Hungarian due to the diesel scandal. In the U.S., 20 billion dollars were beaten at the cheating company, but in Germany, too, they paid HUF 340 billion in fines, and in addition, they offer about HUF 1.3 million per car to the double-crossed owners as compensation. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The deceived Hungarian consumers would be entitled to at least HUF 50 billion in compensation, as the loss of state revenue was in the billions due to the loss of registration tax and the loss of the company's car tax. And then we haven't even talked about the health effects and the additional spending of 2-8 billion. The Dialogue has been asking the Ministry of Mihály Varga why Volkswagen's domestic companies are exempt from sanctions since 2015, but in vain, Mihály Varga and the Orbán government are persistently covering for fraudsters. Volkswagen's domestic company is a strategic partner of the Orbán government, it is responsible for public procurements, last time they won 54 billion in December, the company's managing director received hundreds of millions of grants for the construction of the hotel, where Rogán Antal organized a private party. Mr. Secretary. To date, exactly what sanctions have been imposed on Volkswagen's domestic company for the diesel scandal? If there is no punishment, how and when do you intend to change this in the spirit of the government's alleged green light? Or did the government relieve the Volkswagen of the polluter-pays principle? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-03-02-70	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I salute my fellow Members and guests. I give the floor to State Secretary Tamás Schanda.
u2020-03-02-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is acting against you. [[László Varju: We can sense it!]] It is very irresponsible to make this task of our children's future an instrument of political play, not empty words, unnecessary misconception, but action to protect our created world. All we've seen so far from you is misconception, pretense, and breaking promises. [[Bence of Turdai: Five years ago...]] Honourable Congressman, It is not a climate crisis that must be declared, but that action must be taken, which is why different strategies have been developed, which is why the climate action plan has also been developed, which includes concrete, tangible measures to protect our environmental values. Everyone must do what is important for this purpose, but we believe that the price of climate protection must be paid by the biggest polluting companies and countries, not by the Hungarian people. Therefore, multinational companies operating in Hungary are required to use environmentally friendly technologies. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that according to our information, the purchase of vehicles quoted by you was carried out in accordance with the law. I would also like to inform you that, in the case of vehicle types for which the manufacturer has recognised that the environmental characteristics are inaccurate, all the Member States concerned, including our country, have initiated a recall verification of the vehicles sold to the domestic manufacturer of that vehicle type. [[Bence of Turda: Was it Sanction?]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence of Turda: No sanctions? No action? You've had five years!]]
u2020-03-02-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When is the road development investment on the Veszprém 8 main road expected to take place? It's an address. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. You have the floor, Congressman Ovadi.
u2020-03-02-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The outstanding performance of the Hungarian economy has enabled the launch of a country-wide road development programme that serves not only the further development of the economy but also the improvement of the quality of life of the people. As is known, large-scale transport improvements are being prepared or implemented thanks to the government's road programme. The implementation of Highway 8, Veszprém South bypass road is extremely important. The development is also significant because, after its completion, it contributes significantly to the relief of traffic jams in the key part of the route often used between Lake Balaton and the capital. Regular users of the ring know that it does not even take a tourist season to develop a long line of cars at the Balatonfüred node. Road investments can not only have a job-creating effect, but also serve the development of businesses, boosting the local economy, improving the lives and quality of life of families. It is also thanks to the fact that, as in recent years, the government will continue to see road development as a strategic objective. Dear Secretary of State, Veszprém and its region are looking forward to these road developments. In view of this, I would like to ask when it is expected that the southern bypass of Veszprém and the crossing of highways 8 and 82 will be completed. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-74	Thank you, Congressman Ovadi. I give the floor to Secretary Schanda.
u2020-03-02-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is implementing a large-scale development programme covering all parts of the country in order to continuously expand and modernise Hungary's transport networks. Within the framework of the road programme, road development will be prepared and implemented in the amount of HUF 3200 billion, and the majority of the resources will be financed from the Hungarian budget, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people as well. The main tasks of the programme are to ensure access to high service-level road networks for all county-righted cities, to drive motorways to national borders and to connect them to the international motorway network. Our goal is also to ensure that a four-track section of the road is available from any settlement in the country within 30 minutes. [[13.10]] As you well put it, it is also important to develop ways to avoid settlements, so that we can make transport safer and faster, and thus make the affected settlements, the beloved Veszprém, even more livable and attractive. Honourable Congressman, Road development investments in Veszprém on main road No 8 are also included in the planned investments of the road programme. In December last year, the preparation and implementation of the project No. 8 and No. 82 started the preparation of the permit and export plans for the project Veszprém without the southern bypass, and a final building permit is expected to be obtained soon. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The export contract for the project Veszprém South bypass road No. 8 was signed in recent weeks. Thank you for your interest and your appreciation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How long will the government tolerate the conditions prevailing at Volán? It's an address. By answering this question, the Minister appointed a minister without a wallet responsible for managing the national assets of Bartfai-Mager, who asked Mr János Fónagy State Secretary to answer the question. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2020-03-02-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent times, I have been drawn to problems that cannot be delayed. Volánbusz Zrt. has unblessed conditions that threaten the lives of passengers and workers every day. Underpaid bus drivers, life-threatening vehicles, and continuous driving-through can be described as the Volan today. Since my press conference on the subject, I have received numerous requests, and several Volán workers have supported the fact that the working hours over 60 or even 70 per week are not unprecedented. Some of the previously irregular conducts are increased by forcing the Volánbus to return to work on a given day, so in many cases they also expect them to falsify the ticket if they do not do so, sanction the renitant bus driver. Bus drivers, drivers, dispatchers from various parts of the country reported the most amazing stories. They would like this to be heard by the Supreme Leadership of the Volánbusz, as well as the passengers, to know how impossible, dangerous, the drivers in a public company will take the job. Even though there's a tachograph instrument check, the Volan's leadership forces drivers to circumvent the loopholes. The main reason for the transfers and overrides is that hundreds of drivers are missing from the system. I call on the government to immediately begin to catch up with the Volan workers and to eliminate anomalies affecting the chain of command and to launch a programme in order to alleviate the continuing shortage of workers in the company. The government has the Volán company comply with the legislation on driving and rest periods. Volánbusz Zrt. with the involvement of independent experts, begin the immediate technical review of buses serving at the company. Replace passenger and worker life-threatening vehicles with modern new vehicles that are less environmentally harmful. Dear Secretary of State, As a responsible opposition representative, I would like no more serious tragedy to come. By offering my help, I ask you: what steps will you take to achieve this? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2020-03-02-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Volán Zrt. the bus and coach drivers are employed in accordance with the existing European and Hungarian legislation on driving and rest periods and the provisions of the collective agreement. Since October 2019, all buses of the national transport company operating in an integrated system are in compliance with the rules and conditions of the legislation on road safety, and are also subject to the legal predecessor of the company and the current integrated company. In order to improve sustainable public transport, according to Hungary's bus strategy, Volánbusz plans to purchase a total of 3930 buses between 2019-22, resulting in 60 percent of the company's total fleet of vehicles being rejuvenated. I just want to say that last year and this year 705 new purchases were made, 44 own productions were in progress, 90 are currently being purchased. On this basis, the company is planning to reduce the average age of vehicles to 8,99 years until the end of 22 and 5,73 years until the end of 2031. I'm just saying, before 2010, these were 20 years old. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-80	Thank you, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Andrea Bártfai-Mager, who is responsible for managing the national assets, has been appointed by the Minister, who asked Mr János Fónagy to answer the question. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2020-03-02-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At last, the Hungarian State Treasury published a list of the victims of Seviép who were compensated from the Hungarian taxpayers' money between March and November 2018 on request of a lawyer. As we know, the Hungarian state distributed HUF 2.7 billion to private companies and entrepreneurs in the form of compensation. At that time, in the municipal campaign, Minister János Lázár, one of the prominent leaders of Fidesz, talked about hundreds of bankrupt entrepreneurs in Szeged. At the same time, however, it was clear from the companies which were compensated by the maximum amount that these companies did not go bankrupt, and even in the year of Seviép's fall they were profitable. From the data sued by the Treasury, it was clear that the Orbán government even made up for profitable, well-performing companies with taxpayers' money, even for 10 years. Dear Secretary of State, What we do not dispute is that those who suffer damage must be compensated, compensated, and, at the same time, we would like to know exactly how many of these entrepreneurs were in Szeged, and how many of them went bankrupt. Just as we would like to know why Hungarian taxpayers' money is being spent on paying for prosperous companies. Just as we would like to know on what title nearly HUF 3 billion was paid to profitable, high-end companies and construction companies after almost 10 years, after the fall of Seviép. And as important as that, we would also like to know when the victims of the fidesz-bound Quaestor scandal will be fully compensated. As we know, we are talking about more than 30,000 small investors, who have lost their savings almost overnight, because of the negligence of the Hungarian State, the Hungarian National Bank or the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions that has since ceased. We would like to know when the victims of Hungary's biggest financial fraud, who have not yet been compensated, will be helped. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-02-82	Thank you, Congressman Szabo. I give the floor to Secretary General Major in response.
u2020-03-02-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Extraordinary public claims of the victims of the private limited liability company Seviép in liquidation were settled on the basis of the relevant government decree, as set out therein. The regulation did not distinguish between the victims as to their financial and economic situation, whether at the time of the bankruptcy of Seviép or at the time of the settlement of claims. If the legal conditions for settlement of claims were met, the government agencies decided on the extent to which the injured party and Sevíép Zrt. made a decision. a previous relationship has been established between the two parties. The role of the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets is to enforce a legal claim from the victims to the Hungarian State, subject to the provisions of the Ptk. and the relevant government regulations. We do not have any information on how many of the legal entities involved in the settlement of claims have gone bankrupt over time. [[13.20]] According to statements drawn up on the basis of documents sent by government offices, 55 legal or natural persons based in Szeged or having their place of residence were granted compensation. P & P Gazdasági Tanácsadó Kft. As a first-order plaintiff, in the case of Quaestor and its associates, the MNB, as a prime defendant, and the Hungarian State as a second-rate plaintiff, the State Court of Auditors, asks 1652 applicants to declare liability in the action for the Quaestor scandal in proceedings pending before the Metropolitan Tribunal. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] The plaintiffs did not make any claims for damages. [[The president's ringing again.]] the procedure is ongoing. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question for 150 billion Government Propaganda? It's an address. By answering the question, the Prime Minister appointed Antal Rogán, the Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister, who was competent to answer the question, who asked the Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör to respond. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government can spend some HUF 150 billion on propaganda for the remainder of its term of office, as the National Communications Office concluded a 50 billion framework contract with a company that can be extended twice. Since exactly the same construction was used last time and was extended twice, we can be sure that the final invoice will be HUF 150 billion. In 2016 Donald Trump's election campaign as President cost about HUF 124 billion if we recalculate the dollar, so that the government and Viktor Orbán will spend more on their own re-election campaign, on his 2022 campaign as government propaganda costs than Donald Trump spent in 2016. True, he spent it on his own, but Orbán spent it on our taxpayers' forints. You will do this with a single contract with New Land Media Kft. Kft. has already achieved a fabulous, almost 18 percent profit for this good relationship, so in the next two years it can expect a profit of up to 27 billion. By the way, the same company was dealt with by MVM Zrt last year. its advertising and media appearances, for more than 4 billion, even though MVM, which is largely monopoly or at least hegemonic, had many reasons and reasons for this. Some examples of what he spent these 4 billion forints on. For example, at the Ice Adventure event, free skating was available for about 550 million forints. This was done by 5,000 people, or 5,000 people skating for 110,000 HUF each with MVM and through this Hungarian taxpayers' money. I ask Mr Secretary of State that he has been exempted from the Public Procurement Act for the conclusion of the framework contract, and this has not conflicted with the ban on market distortion of the Treaty on the European Union, and this does not give rise to the suspicion of impeccable theft. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-86	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-03-02-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the electronic procurement system is public, so you and everyone have the opportunity to find out that the National Communications Office opened an open and EU procedure on 25 October on this subject. As a result, the framework agreement you mentioned was concluded, so there was no exemption from the Public Procurement Act. In the proceedings initiated by the Office, any company which complied with the eligibility criteria could make an offer. In the light of these considerations, its claim on market distortion is difficult to interpret. Speaking of market distortion, or MVM, if I recall correctly, you were referring to MVM, then allow me to remind you of a case. Your party president, when he was Prime Minister, reduced it to his own company. [[An uproar in DK's ranks.]] The price of the electricity was paid at a reduced rate. He was suspected of harming MVM by billions. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's a lie, you know!]] The Hungarian families did not receive such a discount, their electricity prices doubled during this period. It's not just a market distortion, it's a big mess. As far as this government is concerned, and public finance management, we have completed a left-wing period in which approximately HUF 10 000 billion worth of wealth has been distributed, while the total value of state wealth has increased by one and a half times during national governance. For our part, we would like to go on this path. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How many SNI students are involved in public education? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2020-03-02-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think it is not difficult to see why it is important to know in Hungary not only nationally, but also in different districts and counties, how many medical teachers are involved in public education, and how many medical teachers are available to 100 SNI students. Not one, not two, but a lot of affected families have already indicated that there is a shortage of medical teachers in Hungarian public education, who have to travel 60-70, and in many cases more than 100 kilometers with their children in order to be able to send them to schools that meet their condition. You always give me a specific medical educational number for 100 SNI students, Mr. Secretary of State, but the fact is that this is not informative enough, because it does not say territorial breakdown. I submitted a public-interest request to the Klebelsberg Center for information on how many medical teachers there are for 100 SNI students, and President Gabriella Hajnal replied that they do not handle such data. I, here in Parliament, would like to take this opportunity to inform Madam President that according to the government decree, the report of the study districts is at the Klebelsberg Centre, according to the government decree, she should know exactly how many teachers there are. The reason why the Klebelsberg Center doesn't publish this is simply because there are only one or two medical educators who don't have more. There are schools in which tax-paying Hungarian citizens are unable to receive sufficient education with their SNI children because the payment of the medical teacher is so low. Yes, it is true that there has been an increase in the number of teachers, especially because the gates of the training were opened, it was a right thing to do, but this is not the solution for the person who has to travel about Vasvar, say, 80 kilometers, in order for his child to receive autism-specific education. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-03-02-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, I'd like to pick up where you suspended him, Your Honour. Indeed, we have expanded it, since a decade ago there was only one higher education institution, where they trained medical teachers, and since September 2019 there have been eight university medical pedagogues, and there is also a tutorial at the Faculty of András Pető University of Semmelweis. So that's how these places were supplemented. That is why the number of students has increased: while there were 937 such students a little ten years ago, now there are 2098 students, so the supply is better guaranteed. This obviously also improves national coverage if they are trained in several places, so it is not only possible to attend such training in Budapest. You know, I know we've talked to people, teachers, obviously, who, coming from Eastern Hungary, is doing a course in Budapest, there's less chance that he's going back, and he's going to be doing his work there, in East Hungary, but since there are already trainings all over the country, there are more resident graduates. As of 2017, the Klebelsberg Scholarship also extends to medical educators, which is why from 5700 in 2010 to 9700 the number of medical educators or consultants employed as medical educators has increased. That's a 70 percent increase. This means that while in 2010, if I look at the numbers at that time, the total number of SNI students was 81 thousand, this is 91 thousand, and then there were 5695 people employed in this job. This means that fewer than 7 educators have received 100 children with special educational needs, while now there are not less than 7, but 10.5 educators or teachers for 100 children with special educational needs. [[13.30]] So it's all the number of training sites. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Thus, the number of national coverage, both the number of teachers, the number of consultants, and the number of teachers per hundred SNI students have all improved in recent years, and we would like to continue this in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Who would like to bleed out small private accommodation publishers by introducing digital reporting obligations? It's an address. By answering the question, the Prime Minister appointed Antal Rogán, the Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister, who was competent to answer the question, who asked the Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör to give the answer. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-02-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For almost a year and a half now, when the pro-government majority pushed the legislation here in the House to impose daily electronic reporting obligations on accommodation taxes, including hotels, boarding houses, motels and private accommodation taxes from 1 January this year. We have already expressed our concern in the general debate, as we have perceived the problem that private accommodation taxes, when they use this income supplement as an income supplement or pension supplement, will not be able to provide these data services for them, especially for the elderly. And that is the case, it shows that between November and January in Siófok 220 private accommodation taxes have already decided to suspend this activity, and that this not only leaves the income supplement for these elderly people because they are mostly elderly, but also narrows the tourism supply. There is no question that you were also meant to strengthen the black economy and the grey economy, as you may have expected that after a while this electronic reporting will cause a problem. I respectfully ask what you will do to help these accommodation taxes, since so far the monthly data has been solved by accountants, but now that we have to provide electronic data on a daily basis, this will be difficult. And this also threatens one of the leading sectors of the Hungarian economy, not only at Lake Balaton, but across the country. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State with respect: what do you intend to do to help elderly people who do not have a computer? I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-03-02-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Tourist Data Service Centre you mentioned started last year. Its purpose is to get a real and current view of the country's accommodations through daily statistics. There are similar solutions in other countries. And if we get a real picture, support programmes and promotional campaigns can be even more effective. By the way, I am arguing with you here, and the Reporting Center is also contributing to the whitening of tourism. You may agree with me that it is important for accommodation providers to appear in the digital space in order to maintain competitiveness, which is also true for other sectors. Nevertheless, the government also thought of those who do not have the software to provide the data, including the private accommodation publishers mentioned by you. For them the so-called "My Guest Room" is a free accommodation management application, through which data can be provided easily and quickly. All relevant information about the use of the system can be found on the website of the National Tourist Information Centre, and the interested parties can also reach a green number every day of the week and get answers to their questions there. By the way, the measure you mentioned is just one of many. It is also due to the decisions of the past years that Hungarian tourism has broken many records, there have never been as many guests in Hungary as in 2019, while the revenues of commercial accommodations are constantly increasing. If I compare it to 2010, there's an 85 percent increase. I hope and perhaps you can confirm that this is felt in and around Siófok. We want Hungary to become a tourist centre in the Central European region; we are on our way to doing this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What does the Ministry do to improve the quality of domestic air? It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2020-03-02-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, 13,000 people die of air pollution each year. This is a serious situation that requires immediate action. Good news: Minister Palkovics has announced the cessation of the sale of lignite to the general public of extreme pollution. However, there is a question as to when this will finally end and what its effects will be, and how this will affect the low income. Action must also be taken to combat highly harmful avar burning and incineration. The insulation of buildings must be supported in order to prevent unnecessary heating and thereby reduce air pollution. More should be done to reduce car traffic. The gravity of the situation is shown by the fact that, in January, there was already a need to impose a degree of information on the smogria tax in the capital. And if we look at the past 16 years, we see that the number of children with asthma has increased two and a half times in Hungary. In view of this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when the sale of lignite to the general public will finally cease, how this will affect the lower incomes and their heating costs, what measures are planned to reduce avar and incineration more effectively, what steps the government is planning to take to reduce air pollution caused by transport. I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-02-98	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2020-03-02-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the negative effects of air pollution, significant government action has already been taken and taken in recent years. Developments in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors were worth more than HUF 300 billion, resulting in improved air conditions. Unfortunately, in addition to local emissions, air quality developments are accompanied by a number of factors that are independent of us. Nevertheless, we will and will take all possible measures at both policy and government level. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the climate and nature conservation action plan, which clearly shows that we are committed to implementing effective emission control measures. The necessary measures to protect our environment and health must be implemented by preserving the results achieved so far in order to protect our national economy and families. In addition to the adoption and implementation of the measures contained in our programmes, we will, of course, continue to work, as part of which we have prepared a draft national air load reduction programme, which includes a number of additional emission reduction measures for the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors. Improving air quality is a very complex task in particular with regard to measures in the retail sector. We are working to ensure that the measures implemented to protect the health of Hungarian people and their environment effectively reduce emissions of air pollutants without making the Hungarian families more difficult. I assume the Congresswoman can agree with this objective. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When will a real raise be given to teachers? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor. [[13.40]]
u2020-03-02-101	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, With great triumph, Minister Kásler announced that he would be giving the teachers a 10-percent allowance from September. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: From July!]] However, trade unions rightly draw attention to the fact that, with inflation of around 5 per cent, this cannot be seen as a substantial improvement in salaries, most of all as a pretend measure. Therefore, teachers' wages will continue to be broken down in 2020, and the current severe teachers' shortage will continue to increase, which they are also unwilling to provide data on as much as on the number of teachers. Moreover, it is not a real wage increase, since it is not included in the pay table, it can be taken away at any time. The most important question, however, is when they will return to teachers the money they owe them. When the current career model was introduced, the allowances were abolished and the teachers were put to considerable extra work, they promised that the wage table would be based on the minimum wage at all times. However, this promise was immediately broken the following year, and to this day, the teacher's pay table is based on the 2014 minimum wage, 101,000 forints. With this trick, you will take 60,000 to 70,000 forints out of each teacher's pocket. I'd like to help Mr. Secretary, because I know what's written on his paper. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] He'll say that we were the only government that reduced the pay of teachers. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right!]] Mr. Secretary, this is a lie. In 2002, in the last budget of the first Orbán government, a teacher who started his career earned HUF 42 700. In 2010, in our last budget, HUF 122 thousand. This, even when considering the withdrawal of the 13th month salary, is 166 percent, i.e. a two-and-a-half-fold increase in salary. Now, that's what you're gonna do, and then you're gonna have to talk about a teacher's wage increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-03-02-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-03-02-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, No matter how many times you tell us, neither the Hungarian people nor the Hungarian teachers will forget that at any other time there was no government in Hungary who would have saved so much money on teachers that he had laid off 15,000 teachers. You just said how much better it would be if there were more teachers, yet you put 15,000 teachers on the street and not only took their salary away from the schools, but also took away one month's wages from the remaining teachers who stayed there. Mr President, it is called mass dismissal, it is called a reduction in salaries, and that is what you have done from one year to another in 2008-2009, honourable Member. Anyone who made around 120 thousand forints in 2010 can now bring home 231 660 forints, 78 percent higher. So it's not a reduction. [[Gergely Harvestó: This is slightly less than 150 percent!]] It is not a reduction, Mr honourable Member, as you said, but growth. During all this time, GDP and our total national product increased by 23.9 percent, i.e. by less than 25 percent, while we introduced a 50 plus 10 percent teacher's wage increase, since the sum of HUF 231 000 means gross wages and a 78 percent increase already due in July. While a 20-year-old worker with a college degree and a teacher himself II. At your time, the salary of a qualified teacher has not reached 150 000 forints; it is now 331,000 forints, 122 percent higher than you have given him, honourable Member; you, who have reduced salaries, are demanding higher salaries. On the one hand, the demand for higher pay for teachers is real, but not from you, honourable Member, who presented it in Hungary as the only one after the change of regime, so that they can reduce it from one school year to the next, while not reducing the profits of multi-enterprises, utility companies, by a penny. We will strive to keep the teachers' wages rising. It's a 10 percent raise this year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, Head of Group, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing national assets:. What does the government do to ensure healthy drinking water? It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed a Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who was responsible for tasks and competences according to the subject, who asked Mr Tamás Schanda State Secretary to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-03-02-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I was very confident that we could see the Minister without a wallet in Parliament and perhaps answer a question that we had asked many times before, but we did not get an answer. I asked Minister Palkovic many times about the situation of the water utility network, but I did not get a meaningful answer, and the problem is not that I did not get an answer, but that the profession does not get answers to these questions either. Let's look at the facts. Since 2012, the number of malfunctions in the drinking water network has more than doubled. Nearly 30 percent of fixed water does not reach consumers, with this much network loss. A total of 65,000 kilometers of pipe network awaits renovation and immediate work. The proportion of drinking water systems with an adequate qualification is now below 20 per cent. Each year, the maintenance party shall prepare the rolling development plan for a 15-year period. On this basis, the profession, the Hungarian Water Utility Association, suggests that the system is missing 1500 billion forints over a 15-year horizon, and according to the County City Association, 3000 billion forints are missing from the system. Therefore, in addition to the current visible, predictable resources, this amount is missing in order to ensure the most important public service, drinking water and sanitation. My question to the Secretary of State is, once again, when the government is going to take action to address this very important problem. How much do you put the missing amount over a 15-year horizon, based on the aggregation of rolling development plans? And what exactly can you tell those who are required to maintain it, from what source will they be able to provide that huge amount of money in a 15-year perspective, I repeat, in order to ensure that the most important public service, the provision of healthy drinking water, can continue to be ensured, so that there will be no very serious damage to domestic drinking water bases? I hope that this time I will receive a meaningful reply from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-106	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to listen to Mr Schanda's reply. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's why there are so many! Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2020-03-02-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we have been debating the situation of water utilities here in Parliament for many times. I can continue to tell you that we know the challenges of this sector, we are aware of the decades of problems that your allies, Balliberal governments, among other things, have not solved or even deepened the problems with mindless robbery privatisation. I trust you will also be calling on the parties responsible for the sale of this country. You don't have a hard time, they're sitting right next to you. Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to developing and modernising high quality drinking water. Our aim is to achieve the integration of the water utility and to ensure a sustainable water utility service on a continuous basis. To this end, the integration of the sector has begun with the entry into force of the Water Utilities Act, which has made the operation of the system more transparent and efficient. Service-provider pricing has also become regulated and transparent, and we can pay particular attention to keeping and expanding the workforce. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology, honourable Member, is currently working on a strategy for the water utility sector, we are persistently fighting to reduce water loss, and we also consider it important to promote innovation technologies in the water utility sector. As far as the special tax is concerned, as a result of the EU's expectations, Member States, including Hungary, must ensure that individual taxes are managed on the basis of uniform principles. We will therefore continue to do our best to promote the right living conditions for Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-108	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, According to our adopted agendas, we will move on to immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy?" It's an address. It is for Congressman Peter James.
u2020-03-02-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Last month, I listened to your year's review. I swear, it's like I've been reading your property statement, it's right on paper, it just had nothing to do with reality. Prime Minister, you are now talking about a country where life has never been so good, that has never worked so well, that there have never been so few people in this Parliament before, that the economy has never soared. [[13.50]] Well, basically, we're gonna need another clean-up in hospitals, and we're gonna be okay. Prime Minister! This country is called Switzerland. You are the Prime Minister of Hungary. You know, this is where the second poorest nation in the European Union lives and the second most corrupt government. This is where most men die before they retire. This is where 600,000 pensioners live from less than 100,000 forints. This is the place where almost half of families with children live below the minimum living standards in this country. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's not true!]] Prime Minister, I know that several leading Fidesz politicians have admitted that you have lost touch with reality, which is why you are obviously fleeing into expensive national consultations. It's just, you know, that's not the answer. You don't have to consult, you don't have to write, you have to go out with people, you have to go out with the people, if you have the courage. Sometimes the eagle should come down from high ground to see how people you see as sparrows live. The ones you think are stupid when all you have to say about every problem is Soros! Prime Minister, go out with the people, see how people live in a country where there is no quality work, no quality wages. Where in the villages there is no school, no general doctor, no policeman, no postman, no bus only twice a day, where there is no plan B beyond community service. Prime Minister, if you could give us a few thoughts about this country, we would like to thank you. There you go. You have the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-110	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter James. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2020-03-02-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to spare you the further effort, and I would like to say that although your speeches are, as usual, crowded with personal insults, I simply ignore them. As far as the country is concerned, I am talking about the country that went bankrupt in 2010. Not from you. [[Gergely Harvester: It's Fidesz.]] Your allies have bankrupted him. The people you're conspiring with right now, if you look a little sideways, you can see them, they're the ones who bankrupted you. I'm talking about a country where ten million people have been fighting for what your allies have done since 2010, so that we can neutralize it and bring the country back to a rising and growing path. [[Bence of Turdai: I can't.]] Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the country, the country needs a government and the government needs stable parties. We've learned that for the last 30 years. We also see that you, Jobbik and the joint alliance of opposition left parties are applying for governance. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: There's no need to be so afraid.]] But what I see is that, given the latest developments, the climate crisis has reached Jobbik, it has started to melt like an iceberg. [[Defiance on the pro-government side. Dr. Brenner Koloman: We were at the Media, we just grew, you read the polls?]] I can see the exits, I can read what they're saying, and the exits mostly don't like one thing, and that's you. I quote:. We do not like your direction as a Gyurcsányist, because Bolshevik-type reckonings and the complete surrender of national-valued politics are taking place. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I suggest that instead of scolding the government and the country loudly, they get their shit together before it's too late. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Kleptocracy!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-112	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Peter James.
u2020-03-02-113	Let's just say, Prime Minister, at the Dunaújváros iceberg, the Fidesz Titanic had a massive leak. [[Defiance from the opposition side.]] For the past ten years, Prime Minister, this country has received so much money from the Union that it could have done wonders. You could have prepared for the upcoming economic crisis, sir, and prepared for the effects of the coronal virus. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Compared to this, 38 thousand of our countrymen die every year because of the shattered health care in Hungary without a virus, Prime Minister. Half a thousand GP practices are unfilled in Hungary today. Do you know what that means? It means that 800,000 of our countrymen, especially in villages, don't see a general doctor. [[There's a lot of noise, interference on the pro-government side.]] Who's going to examine them, Prime Minister? Who will tell them what this virus is, how to prepare for it, how to prevent it? Prime Minister, if you are going to consult millions of people at national level, I suggest that in that envelope you change the paper quickly and not send propaganda material to the public, but a pinpoint briefing on what you can do to protect their health. Believe me, Prime Minister, this is more important, you can save lives. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-114	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2020-03-02-115	I congratulate the Member of Parliament who has gained the trust of the Dunaújváros and wish him good work. This success, your success, draws attention to the fact that a joint opposition candidate has won, i.e. you have acquired this mandate together with the Gyurcsány left. [[Moraj on the opposition side.]] And the thing is, you can't shout as loudly as you can in this Parliament that would cover that fact. I understand that you're in a difficult situation, because you've said some interesting things about your allies before, and I'm quoting you. It's like this: Don't think it's so easy for me to stand on stage with, say, Klara Dobrev. Yeah, well, then I'm gonna have to swallow big things and get out of my comfort zone. I wish you good swallowing, Mr. Group Leader, and I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that when the moment of truth comes, and you will be the last Jobbik party member to leave the headquarters, don't forget to turn off the lights. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-116	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-117	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, you are always complaining about the question being asked to you on a regular basis and at this hour of immediate questioning that Members are using this question to personalize. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Fact.]] I have the bad news, Prime Minister, that in the last ten years, you have been the one who has not yet given a normal answer to one question, but always, as I think, and then again, you are attacking the questioner, his person, and personalizing. That was the case with Peter James instead [[An uproar on the pro-government side. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You protect each other nicely.]] Instead of answering the simple question that he asked, instead, he was writing a paper-smearing text against Jobbik right now. I'll try to ask a similar question, make it a little less personal, in case Prime Minister thinks about it. You gave an interview to 168 Hours as a young politician in 89, if I remember correctly. In that interview, you told me that you started your life from a cottage on the side of the village and grew up there. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] He also said that he lived in a world where, by the way, you were a high school student and then a university student, and then he was the Prime Minister of this country. Prime Minister, please listen to me a little, thank you; there will be nothing funny about what I'm asking you, you think you've built a country in the last ten years where anyone from a village cottage can go to college, and even if [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes!]] talented Can you be Prime Minister? Is that how you appreciate it, Prime Minister? According to you, among other things, you have started by your words, currently almost quoting the period of Jewish law. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] mood swings [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] What's going on in this country against gypsy is an activity to build such a country, Prime Minister? Are you serious? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-03-02-118	Thank you very much. With all due respect to the members of the government, please remain calm and I will give the floor to the Prime Minister.
u2020-03-02-119	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, We don't want to complain. You know us, as God knows us, always the same as God. We're gonna get a fair question, you're gonna get a fair answer. If they attack us, we will attack back. If they're gonna hit us, we're gonna protect them, and we're gonna pay them back. There is a law of politics, the initiative of which, the definition of its style, is not ours, but yours. You're gonna start by saying, "Oh, God, you're gonna be like God." It's gonna be like that now. I can tell you, first of all, if you've been referring to Jewish laws, think about your alliance with a party the vice president of... We were all here, we were all here. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: He sat there!]] We heard him, he sat there, he stood up, and he said that we should put together representatives of Jewish origin and members of the government. You are now in cooperation with this party. [[Noise, interruptions.]] As for the chances of young people, I say with good conscience to you, my honourable fellow Member, that, yes, after 2010, we are living in a country where young people from a difficult situation have much more chances than before 2010, under your control. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2020-03-02-120	Thank you. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-03-02-121	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Indeed, his reply only confirmed that Peter James had nothing to object to, and you have no idea what country he is leading. You have no idea! [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] The measures you've been through over the last few years have been good and I'm sorry, I'm going to take it personally again, just to make sense of it. In the second half of this interview, you said that your parents worked hard at the time to raise you; they worked extremely hard, and for quite a little salary, but they could get from one to two at a time. It was in the system at the time. In the current system, the same players have become billionaires in the last ten years, Prime Minister. And I think he's clearly showing you what's really important to you and what country he's built in recent years. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-02-122	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2020-03-02-123	Honourable Congressman, The fact is that 3 million 600 thousand people worked in Hungary in 2010 and there was unemployment between 11 and 12 percent. These people didn't have a chance to get along, because if there's no job, then there's nothing. Compared to this, four and a half million people are working today, and I think that if there is a job, then life will not be easy, but everything is possible, or at least everything is possible. By the way, I wish all citizens of Hungary to take advantage of these opportunities and to have at least as good a next ten years as the ten years left behind. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you take responsibility, Prime Minister?" You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-125	The only reason I'm not gonna be personal is because I don't really care about you. [[Defiance of the opposition, an uproar in the pro-government benches.]] But I'm interested in your politics, and I'm interested in what you're doing to our country, this country. Mr. Prime Minister, You did not answer Péter Jakab's question when you asked how Hungarian health will cope with the coronal virus epidemic when you pay 2-3 thousand forints of rewards at the rescue service; when hospitals have a debt of billions of HUF due to insufficient funding; and when 971 doctors are missing from hospitals, 459 are outpatient care and, overall, tens of thousands of health workers are missing in Hungary today. And he didn't answer to Mr Bellozó, who asked why he would exclude poor students from the education system. With a 17-year education obligation, delivery of the education obligation [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You introduced tuition fees.]] by introducing tuition fees at universities [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You introduced him.]] It is called only differently, Mr Rétvári State Secretary, but it is still a tuition fee which is priceless for an average Hungarian family; by constantly trying to narrow down the number of places giving graduations in public education; by destroying the system of vocational training; by organizing the entire vocational training system from the public sector and from public education; and by introducing a system of family support that does not reach the poorest parents, the poorest families. He did not answer the question of what this country offers today to poor young people, poor families, outside public work or emigration. Prime Minister, do you take responsibility for the fact that education and health are in such a situation?
u2020-03-02-126	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2020-03-02-127	Thank you for not being personal. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I have been a Member of Parliament since 1990, and that means that after every four years of work, people have to stand up to voters and ask what they think of their work. I've already done this, and I have to give you the bad news that I'm going to do it in 2022, and we're going to get an answer there. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As far as the coronal virus is concerned, although it deserves more than just getting caught in and out of this topic by the congressmen, I must tell you that, according to our knowledge this morning, there is no such infection in Hungary yet, but it is very likely that there will be. After all, it is already in every neighbouring country, and it is hard to imagine how it could happen that it is not here if it is everywhere. That's why you have to be prepared for this. This is basically a professional issue, although I see that you are making a political issue of it here, but preparing for the consequences of a pandemic for Hungary seems more like a professional issue to us. We are prepared for it, the operational tribe that deals with this issue, has been standing up for a month, and professionals are doing their job. They can be seen in public at times, but they do their job not only in public but also in hospitals, and they are prepared as much as possible. I trust them, we have a very serious, internationally recognized lab, and we have very serious experts, and I think we'll be able to handle that when the infection gets here. I ask you to support healthcare workers, to support doctors, to support health decision-makers, to support the people working in the administration, so that together we can overcome the infection that arrives here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-128	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2020-03-02-129	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Speaking of your political past, let me point out that I have already won a parliamentary election against you in an individual district. [[Interview from DK's ranks: That's right!]] So I know what it's like to have to face your constituents directly. And the voters are not reassured by your response, because they, too, and we trust Hungarian doctors and Hungarian health workers, we do not trust the government. And you didn't give an answer to how the government would provide the right conditions for damaged health care, debt-to-day hospitals, how they would solve it, and who would cure when there's a shortage of doctors, when there's a shortage of nurses. You have not responded to what the government is doing to at least improve the health situation that you have destroyed in this critical situation. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-130	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2020-03-02-131	I need to draw attention to the facts again. You were in the government between 2002 and 2010. I suggest that when you attack the current government and consider its health performance insufficient, the following facts should be taken into account. Between 2003 and 2009, healthcare expenditure per capita in the entire OECD region decreased in Hungary alone. Under the Gyurcsány governments, 600 billion forints were stolen from health care. You've charged 16,000 active beds. Not us, you! 6,000 medical workers have been dismissed. And speaking of equal opportunities, and after dealing with education issues, it was you who introduced the tuition fee, which we had to destroy by a referendum. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: That's right! Shame!]] Don't forget that when you attack the government. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-132	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Will you take responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Are they conversing?]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, You have just answered Mr Harangozó's question that young people today have a better chance than before 2010. Well, the thing is, Prime Minister, during your ten-year government, hundreds of thousands of people were forced to leave the country. You have given young people the chance to have one in six Hungarian children born abroad today. Prime Minister, I live in the city of Pécs, during your ten years of government, 15,000 people left the city of Pécs out of coercion, so the population of Pécs has fallen, largely due to forced migration. Prime Minister, answer me: what chance did you give the young Hungarians, what chance did you give the Pécs? But I will try to ask you a question that I may be able to give you a meaningful answer in accordance with your promise. It is quite clear that with regard to the use of nuclear power and the Paks project, we will never agree with you. We have a very strong belief that nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap, and it cannot be considered safe in any way. You have made a very serious political decision many years ago, and this decision has cost generations in Hungary, Prime Minister. [[14.10]] You have made this decision in such a way that every argument in favour of this decision has since proved to be a lie or a mistake. The project is dying, you could say. The Paks project is a lot, and now you can't even count how many years you're slipping. Does the government have any idea at the moment how much this big project will cost the Hungarian taxpayers? For example, what technical content will be achieved? Will you need cooling towers and everything? Mr. Prime Minister, do you acknowledge that this very many years of delay has occurred because the Russians you put into the project without a tender simply could not prepare the entire planning documentation in time, so the authorisation procedure has not yet started? And, Prime Minister, perhaps my most important question is when it comes to the project, when you say that in the interests of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy, you will withdraw from this project. And if that happens and you acknowledge that you have made the wrong decision, will Prime Minister personally take responsibility for these tragically bad decisions? Thank you.
u2020-03-02-134	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2020-03-02-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand there are two questions here. One is young people and abroad, and the other is the investment in Paks. First of all, you know my point of view that I am very appreciative of young people who choose to try themselves abroad. I don't understand why they're being attacked. You guys talk like that all the time. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] about Hungarians working abroad, as if they were doing something wrong. They're not doing the wrong thing. They're doing what they thought was the right thing to do in their own lives. So I would like to make it clear that there should be no negative opinion of those who are trying to enforce their knowledge abroad, in our view. The second thing I would like to mention to you is that the situation in Hungary is the most favourable in terms of the number and proportion of people going abroad. The third thing that I think is important is that I think it happened last year and the process is getting stronger that more people are coming home than they are leaving. Just as we do not have to criticize those who have left, we do not have to criticize those who have come home, because they obviously decided because they considered it the best decision in their personal lives. With regard to climate protection and investment in Paks, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we do not know a carbon-free economy that could avoid nuclear energy. I know that for a green couple, I think it might not be an insult, like you, it's a delicate dilemma, because either you have to give up one or the other. But believe me, the only rational position is that if we want to produce and consume an economy free of CO2 emissions, we need nuclear energy. So I'm asking you to support the investment in Paks. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-02-136	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-02-137	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, When a politician claims to be a national emotion, he does not view as normal the fact that young people leave under duress. Then he will do everything in his power to allow young people to plan their future here. I have a lot of relatives, a lot of family members who live abroad under duress, and I can tell you that people who have left Pécs in ten years did not leave this country to learn a language or to pursue adventure, but because of compulsion. Prime Minister! It is typical of your sensitivity, your approach to green policy, that in the legal environment that you set up in Hungary today there is no way to build a wind farm next to a settlement, and you have to miss 12 kilometers, but you can build a nuclear cemetery. Prime Minister! It is not true that nuclear energy is green and because renewable energy is much more efficient in terms of emissions, if we look at the entire fuel cycle. Prime Minister! You spoke again about consultation-based governance in your evaluation. When do you ask the Hungarian people about wanting to be indebted for generations to your Paks adventure project? Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-138	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-02-139	Thank you very much. But this has already happened: in January 2014 it was the most important topic of your electoral promises. They got the answer from the people. In these circumstances, since the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was the main topic of the then election, we consider this issue to be decided by the election. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not worth closing our eyes to the world's developments. Take a look at the situation where the nuclear power plants were shut down. Without mentioning the name of any country, this may not be polite, but we know a country that leads out, shuts down nuclear power plants, and not only keeps coal plants open, but also builds new coal plants. Now, this is the trap Hungary would like to avoid.
u2020-03-02-140	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm a rural peasant child, I come from a poor family, and I grew up in the cadár system in the '60s and '70s. Our family wasn't communist, we were even anti-communist, because we were kulaks in the old days. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of Fidesz.]] However, compared to this, I was able to get a degree, yet I was able to be a university professor in that system. After the change of regime, I was able to follow who was coming to college. Unfortunately, it was possible to see that university students became the vast majority who came from intellectual, elite families and could not really catch up with poor peasant families. So this would be the first part of it. To answer my question, I was very happy to listen to you when you said in your annual speech that the most successful ten years have been in the last hundred years. I was delighted to start looking at the statistics, and unfortunately I saw that there was no significant improvement or even improvement in demographic numbers, education, health care and social care. In the area of the economy, which is the most successful sector, there are indeed positive results there, but if we look at it, economic growth in the ten years from 1996 to 2006 was higher and real earnings per earner were also higher; otherwise, during the period when the debt-GDP ratio also decreased. So I'd like to ask you what you're basing your findings on. Is it not that, after 2010, Parliamentary Members' wealth grew sixfold, in which, apparently, the Fidesz MEPs represented a lion's share? Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2020-03-02-143	I tried to isolate the question, but I didn't succeed. The Member has not helped me much, but I have been able to get to know his opinion on some issues, which I have listened to with great respect, and it is also a serious warning to me, because the passing of time clearly disturbs one's memory. I mean, it's a fact worth mentioning. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] that less than 10 percent of young people in the communist regime for social mobility have now gone to higher education. 30 Do you know what you're talking about, Congressman, when you say that it was better than this one when 10 percent went, and now 30? You want to tell us that the good world was when 10 percent of young people went to college, and now 30? ! Because it's worse? I know you hate us, but don't let that cloud your vision for such obvious statistical facts. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-144	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Mellar.
u2020-03-02-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, The two periods are obviously not comparable in this respect. [[Defiance and interrogation from the benches of the governing parties: Bravo!]] because the role of the diploma in that period was much, much greater. At that time, it provided an opportunity that man could truly take a leading intellectual career. Since college, university, and college became a mass, this has basically taken over the place and role of old high schools. So if you look at who goes to Master's or doctoral school, you can see very well that there is such a contrast. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Is there a return answer from the Prime Minister? [[14.20]]
u2020-03-02-147	Your Honour, Mr. President. I can sense that it's cruel to answer that. [[Defiance.]] But I promised you that as a god, you'd be like a god. For a while, I watched the professor's macroeconomic discussions. I stopped doing that in 2011, and I'm quoting what he said then. I quote you, Professor, from 2011, that you said in South Hungary:, If there is no IMF contract by summer, the Hungarian economy can fall. But this is not a realistic scenario, because there is no alternative to the agreement. Congratulations! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. By what means can the general sense of justice of society be restored? It's an address. The Minister asked Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to reply because of his absence. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-03-02-149	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-03-02-150	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor.
u2020-03-02-151	Dear Secretary of State, During the years left behind, people's sense of social justice has been thoroughly disturbed by court judgments, which oblige the Hungarian State to pay compensations of a magnitude of millions to persons who, as a result of some flagrantly serious, misguided act, spend their final sentence of imprisonment, based on the fact that the sun does not shine enough on the window of their cell. It is infuriating that lawyers acting in the vast majority of cases, linked to organisations included in the Balliberal Site and in the Soros Foundation's payment list, benefit significantly from the lawsuits brought against the State. There is also evidence that more than 60 percent of the amounts paid for prison compensation were landed in the pockets of those lawyers. Thanks to the 10-billion-dollar industry called prison business, more than 12,000 such indemnification lawsuits have already taken place, resulting in criminals such as the Italian lynching or the Battonyan monstrous millions. The lawyers of the Helsinki Committee and TASZ, and the Hungarian György, who has been fighting as a social-liberal candidate, are also happy to assist with these trials in order to win the successful prize. There is no new under the sun, my fellow Members, as the aim of the provocators who act in prison remains the removal of the democratically elected, legitimate national government and the replacement of their own puppets. Statistically, it can be shown that prison conditions in our country have improved a lot in recent years, that there are more seats and that new prisons are constantly being built. The Hungarian people want to stop the abuse of the right. The Hungarian government's position that it wants to take the side of integrity and common morals, taking into account the consensusary peace of society, must be supported. It must be made clear to everyone that criminals in Hungary are not rewarded, but punished. In the light of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State by which means the general sense of justice of society can be restored. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2020-03-02-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to point out that almost no one thought until 2010 to sue the Hungarian state for prison conditions, even though there were no differences in regulation or circumstances before. Attorneys' offices cooperating with organisations funded from abroad after the government of the national civilian side recognised the possibility of making money in damages cases. When the Helsinki Committee, the Lawyers of the Company for Freedoms, launched these lawsuits in Strasbourg, including, of course, the Hungarian György quoted by you, this area became a hit topic, and there were virtually over 6,000 cases out in Strasbourg that the Strasbourg court indicated that, if there was no internal regulation, it would set a lump sum of EUR 10 thousand in these matters without a substantive examination. Therefore, in 2016, we presented a proposal to this House, in which, of course, we also discussed the possibility of offering victim compensation, and this House adopted this regulation. However, no one expected the amount of compensation to be paid for the compensation to be less than 13 per cent. In fact, the circles of lawyers that carried these cases to Strasbourg in bulk have actually collected hundreds of cases on the recruitment circuit, even using domestic possibilities. After we have noticed that the amount of compensation paid has indeed reached almost 10 billion, and it is clear that they do not land in the place where they should, i.e. the victims, we have suspended this possibility in law, and in national consultation we ask voters' opinions on further regulation. We hope that, after consultation, those compensation claims will indeed land on the victims. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Attila Barcza has the opportunity to reply in return.
u2020-03-02-155	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I see that the general sense of justice of society in Hungary is significantly impaired by this issue. What you have said is a reason for confidence that a change has taken place in this untenable state. In Hungary, people work decently for their salaries, and it is not acceptable that criminals in prison can earn a serious sum by supporting a very narrow section of the law firm. I ask the government to do whatever it takes to settle this matter as soon as possible in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-156	Thank you very much. You also have the opportunity to respond in return to the Secretary of State.
u2020-03-02-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, the government has also decided that prison spaces are expanding, so we will radically resolve this situation. However, if compensation is paid on the basis of previous cases, these can no longer be paid to law firms, wandering into invisible directions on escrow accounts, but can only be paid specifically by the right holders, and the victim's claims on these accounts can then be fully ironed. I hope that the solution that will emerge will, in effect, fully serve the protection of the victims. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2020-03-02-159	Mr. Prime Minister, I feel that he may have reacted a little sensitively to the issues raised by opposition representatives. He did not respond substantially to why, within Hungarian health care, tens of thousands of people die unduly in problems that could be prevented or remedied. He also did not answer the question of the destruction of vocational training. And with regard to emigrated young people, I feel that he has made an insufferable statement, as Hungary is the best place for Central Europe in this regard, at least it is problematic for the future. But the most painful thing, Prime Minister, is that on two occasions, you have come to the statement that the current government is being attacked by those who express any kind of critical opinion. And I'm sorry, accusing Professor Mellar of hate speech is at least interesting in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] But I would like to be fair, Prime Minister, just listen to me, please, and I would like to cross over to an area where you may feel more at home and perhaps we can find certain common points, and this is the area of migration. I do not wish to be incorrect, nor do I bring here the corrupt business of settlement bonds, on which the Hungarian budget has lost tens of billions, nor do I bring here the issue of foreign workers imported by you by hundreds of thousands, as this in itself deserves a separate debate. However, I see, Prime Minister, and I believe that we can agree on this, that Hungary is under threat from another wave of migration. We are not convinced that soldiers and police officers who are otherwise excellent at our borders can solve this task on their own. Hungary had a border guard, in a way suited to special professional needs. My question is therefore clear: is the government's partner in re-establishing a border guard in Hungary, which can effectively defend the Hungarian border in the future? Jobbik was the only party that provided you with two-thirds in order for the defence to be there now. Now Jobbik is the party that proposes an even more effective solution, setting up an independent border guard in order to ensure that our security is indeed guaranteed. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-160	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2020-03-02-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, The beauty of our profession is that anything can happen, for example, to accuse the head of the national government of a better hate speech. Congratulations. As far as factual errors are concerned, I will not comment on them because I only have two minutes. [[14.30]] However, important figures are mentioned: there are 6,000 more doctors than there were before 2010. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] Please record this fact. They always pretend they don't, and you stand up and say there's less doctors. But you're probably wrong, either you read something wrong or you didn't get it right or you got it wrong. But the thing is, according to the usual rules of mathematics, if we count doctors, today there are 6,000 more doctors working than before 2010. I know it's embarrassing because it's affecting your ally because they let them go, but it's still a fact. The second thing I would like to say is that I am not satisfied with the HUF 770 billion that we have spent on health care in ten years compared to 2010, but I would like to say that we have never spent so much money on health care in ten years as in the last ten years. [[Bence of Turdai: Say that in proportion to GDP.]] But you're right that it's not enough, so we need more. As far as the border guards are concerned, I'd like to tell you that there's a border guard at the border. [[Tamás Sneider: We need a special border guard!]] There are two parts: there are the police and there are the soldiers, and they provide the border guard. The borders of Hungary are protected. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I think he's still the opposition sympathizer in this country. [[Tamás Sneider: There are border guards everywhere but us!]] voters do not doubt that the Hungarian police and Hungarian soldiers are defending Hungary's borders with outstanding international standards. They deserve recognition, not attacks. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-162	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-02-163	Mr. Prime Minister, For the record, I did not accuse you of hate speech, you attributed this to our fellow Member Mellar. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Let's record this, clear it up, and please reconsider your statement. But, I took it out of your words, you do not support the restoration of the independent border guard in Hungary. So that professional proposal, once again, is a hard-core professional concept on the table. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, rock hard!]] He doesn't seem to think he's even worthy of a debate. My problem, Prime Minister, with all this happening in the Hungarian Parliament and falling standards compared to 2010 [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] That you're breaking your own house rules. Prime Minister, I have asked you before about evictions without accommodation, and I have not received a meaningful answer, even though it is happening in your country by thousands. I asked you about the border guard, I didn't get a clear answer. I could ask you about a thousand billion-dollar private pension fund, I could ask you about the abolition of the state leg of housing savings, I can't get a substantive answer to either of you. You're breaking your own rules! The house rules adopted by you state that you should pay specific answers to each particular question. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I don't even ask the most serious question: how can it happen in addition to government propaganda [[The president's ringing again.]] This country produces the worst demographic data [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: How do you know that?]] And I wish I didn't. My request to you is to follow your own rules, your own house rules... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The time frame is also a rule!]]
u2020-03-02-164	Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-165	... provide meaningful answers to substantive questions.
u2020-03-02-166	Thank you, Congressman. I remind Congressman of the house rules. [[Delight and applause from the pro-government benches.]] It's determined how much you can talk. I'll give Mr. Prime Minister the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-02-167	I don't attribute any malice to you, but there is some reason why you don't understand a very simple thing I'm saying. He asked if he would remove his own, organisationally separate border guard, to which I replied that border protection would be solved partly by the police and partly by the military. What's not to understand? It's obvious. In addition, I even put the argument behind it that you don't take it seriously that, since border protection is not a philosophical issue and it's not a question of assumptions, it's hard work, work, armed work. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] This is a job that our police officers and soldiers will do flawlessly. And if something is being provided and it works well, and it is even receiving international recognition, why should it change? [[Tamás Sneider: Because professionally...]] Why don't you understand that's an answer? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zoltán Balczó: Because the police are missing elsewhere! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-168	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What does the government do for Hungary's security in the current crisis situation? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra was entitled to reply. I'll ask Congressman Nacsa if he'll accept the response.
u2020-03-02-169	I accept, thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-170	It says yes. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor.
u2020-03-02-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We are all concerned about the situation in Turkey, which immediately led to tens of thousands of migrants moving towards Europe on the Balkan route. The situation is very serious, as there are nearly four million migrants in Turkey. Several times over the weekend, the Greek police used tear gas at the Greek-Turkish border, where hundreds of migrants threw stones at them to force the opening of the border was reported by news agencies on the ground. According to the UN report, 80,000 people have already started; by Saturday evening, some 13 thousand people have been entangled at the border hoping to enter the EU territory. Thus, the Turkish-Greece border has already developed a crisis on the weekend, by now more people are in northern Macedonia, and soon they can reach the Serbian border. In this serious migration crisis, the role of the Hungarian physical, legal and lively border closure has once again been appreciated as the only safe border protection on the land migration route in Europe. While the Hungarian government and the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary majority have been doing their best to protect the Hungarian border and the Hungarian people, for five years we have heard nothing from the opposition but that there is no migration, and there is no need for a border closure. Remember, Agnes Kunhalmi said that immigration is a fake problem, it doesn't exist. Gergely Christmas demanded that the border fence not be built in any way. László Botka's presidential nomination program was part of our efforts to ensure that the fence can be broken down as quickly as possible. Péter Niedermüller, who considers millions of Hungarian people to be terrifying figures, emphasized that I would break down the fence, let the refugees come. A member of the anarchist faction, Bence Tordai, said: "We have told you a thousand times that the fence built at the southern border is pointless, inhumane and wastefully expensive. In view of all this, if it were up to the opposition, there would be no border protection in Hungary today, and the masses of migrants that started from Turkey would reach Hungary without protection and move across, just as in 2015. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State: what is the government doing for Hungary's security? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-02-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We do what we have already done: we protect Hungary's safety, we protect the safety of Hungarian people. That is what we have done and that is what we will do in the future, honourable Member. As regards the situation following the announcement of the Turkish President: immediately after the events, Prime Minister called the Security Cabinet, the report of the Hungarian security services was reviewed at the meeting, and it was decided that further strengthening of the Hungarian borders would take place, as well as increased attention will be paid to the events on the Balkan migration route. The upflow from the south to the north is a historical trend, and the main question of the next ten to twenty years is where this wave-like invasion can be stopped from Turkey. The majority of illegal migrants come from Iran or Iran. After Iran is one of the focal points of the coronal virus infection, Hungary has decided to suspend the entry of new people into the transit zone indefinitely in order to protect 321 people and the country. Honourable Congressman, As stated above, in September 2015 Parliament made the necessary decisions, we created the triple protection, legal protection, lively protection and the security barrier, which we confirmed in spring 2017, the Hungarian-Serbian border was built with a double fence. By the way, the danger has not passed, we have always said that, but many have not heard it from the opposition. This year, too, 6843 illegal migrants have tried to enter Hungary. I'm reporting, unsuccessfully. The Hungarian police, the Hungarian border guard, the Hungarian border hunters, the Hungarian Hungarian defences carry out their duties, protect Hungary, protect the safety of Hungarian people. Security is the most important community value today, and Hungary is a safe country throughout the world. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-02-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-02-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Clearly, if Ferencen Gyurcsány and his deputy Peter James depended on the country's security [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] then people would not meet safely, there would be no border fence, there would be no border protection, there would be no legal border closure; then we would see that hundreds of thousands of immigrants would reach the Hungarian border quickly and would march through Hungary. We do not want this, so Hungarian people can rely on Fidesz-KDNP for the safety of the country. We have already done and will continue to do everything we can to protect Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2020-03-02-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, representative of MSZP... [[Rumble and clear in the pro-government ranks.]] I'm sorry, I'm giving the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer back. Excuse me.
u2020-03-02-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say here, before the Honourable Parliament, that Hungary has the police, border hunting and defence forces that, in any situation, can defend Hungary's borders and guarantee the security of the Hungarian people. I would like to state here, before you, that until Viktor Orbán is Prime Minister of Hungary, illegal migrants will not enter Hungary. [[Grumbles and interrogations from Jobbik, among them: The East was full of them! Erdoğan?]] Hungary and the Hungarian people will be safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-02-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll just give you the floor. [[Defiance.]] Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, who wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:, How do you explain this? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the right to reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll take it. [[For signal:]] He nods he did. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-02-179	Thank you very much, Mr President, but you had no choice but to give me the floor according to the house rules. [[Rumble and clear in the pro-government benches.]] Today we can talk about many crises in Hungary, but one of the problems facing young people, young people today, is housing. Today, more than 1.7 million children under 18 live in Hungary. If you look at the statistics, you can see that there are nearly 900 thousand young people who are over 18 years old but still live with their parents. To be a little more specific, for the 19-25 age group, we are talking about 528,000 young people, 226 thousand young people in the 26-30 age group, 131 thousand young people in the 31-35 age group, who are still forced to live with their parents. If we look at the roles, we see that the proportion of boys who live with their parents is 10-15 percent higher than that of girls. Many times, it is said that this is the trend when we talk about the convenience of young people living at home for so long. But if we look at the numbers, we see that's not true. Today, access to the first apartment is one of the biggest problems for young people. Today, the government tells you to marry, have three children, and then you will receive support. But the first child should too, honourable Members, be born, and I ask you this, Mr Secretary of State, what is the efficiency other than communication that can increase the ability of young people to get housing as soon as possible. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-02-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-03-02-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Before I get to the substantive answer, allow me a look back in history, because at the time of your government, the first thing they had to do was that the measures introduced by the Fidesz government and the support system for home creation have essentially been completely abolished and dismantled over the years. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] Instead, they did the following: they led almost the whole country into the foreign exchange credit institution. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] To put millions of people in a completely hopeless position. When you talk about housing crises or difficult housing conditions for young people, let us first look at how these people could be brought out of this social crisis. If there is no change of government and Fidesz-KDNP is not coming, and in years it will not bring these people, including young people, young families, out of this crisis, but we cannot talk about how to move on and how to build a real, real home-building support system in Hungary. First the crisis had to be dealt with, the difficulties caused by the foreign exchange crisis, and then the steps followed. The first step was the introduction of family home support in July 2015. The results of this are tangible and can be measured by numbers: 130 thousand families required more than 400 billion forints in order to have their own home and home. To say today that this is nothing, that it has not been a good step in recent years to get people to their own homes, it is simply not true. If you'll allow me, I'd like to continue the government steps I've taken for the next minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-02-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And since I don't have a choice, I'll give you the word in return. [[Defiance.]] Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2020-03-02-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Viktor Orbán has just said that the numbers must be listened to. Then let me tell you, Mr Secretary of State, that during socialist government, 280,000 new homes were built, 88,000 new homes during the nine years of Fidesz. Well, numbers don't lie. And today's statistics, if a young couple today wants to buy a used 50 square foot flat, say, in Debrecen, they used a 50 square foot flat, they have to put all their net income aside for 111 months without eating, drinking, going to work, dressing up and raising no children. That's more than 2015. If you do the math, Mr. Secretary, it's more than nine years without buying a new apartment, but a 50-square-square-meter second-hand apartment. Secretary of State, ten thousand families have been kicked out of their homes for the last three years. They don't talk about that either. Today, the biggest problem with starting a family is that Hungarian young people are unable to get an apartment. Answer me that, Mr. Secretary, and don't talk nonsense. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-02-184	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2020-03-02-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When you're talking about 280,000 apartments, new-built apartments, I don't know how many cycles and how many years did you put together? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Your KSH!]] But it's probably 40 years before the change of regime in this 280 thousand. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Speaking of numbers. And by the way, I suggest you go out with the people, go out on a small town. I'm going to South Borsod, my own constituency, all I hear about is how young people can build a new house, because now they feel the opportunity to finally have a chance. He has a chance to buy a used apartment in the village and renovate it according to his own needs, it's called village CSOK. There's a baby shower credit that's unlimited use [[Bence of Turdai: You want to be indebted to young people!]] But most of the people, I'm sensing, are also using it for housing, renovations, or house purchases. Unlike your claim, now is the chance for young people in Hungary to start a home and a family together. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: 160,000 rent!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-02-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What are the plans of the Hungarian government to prevent the effects of high inflation and weak forints? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai authorized the Secretary of State to reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding. [[Anett: Thank you, I accept.]] He accepts that Congresswoman Anett Bősz should take the floor.
u2020-03-02-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I predict that I am aware that the guardian of price stability is the national bank, not the current Hungarian government. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance has an obligation to deal with this, especially because the combined effect of forint deterioration and inflation is the result of the deterioration of real wages. Seven-year-old peak inflation, historical low forints. These two factors have a very bad impact on Hungarian consumers individually and collectively. Over the last 12 months, price inflation in food prices has been higher than average inflation, with the price index of purchases reaching 7.6 per cent today. This represents almost twice the rate of increase compared to the average consumer price increase. [[14.50]] Each of the processed dairy products has produced a higher rate of price increase, even than average food inflation. The prices of processed meat products, rents, fresh domestic and Southern fruits increased by more than 10 per cent [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They've been behind you for the last year. Because of the increase in the price of the basic consumer livestock basket, crowds perceive that the same money they could buy a kilo of pork a year ago is now less than 80 ounces. In the case of bread and bakery goods, with the same money they were able to buy another kilo a year ago, they can buy 85-90 ounces today. The price of imported products has been significantly increased by the historical low forint, and the fact that analysts believe that the exchange rate against the euro may soon rise to more than 350 HUF. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the government is planning to do to prevent the effects of high inflation and weak forints. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP.]]
u2020-03-02-188	Thank you very much, and I apologize to Congresswoman Versus Anett. I'm gonna follow up on the fact that everyone wasn't listening to the question. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-03-02-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, Yes, the question of inflation, the question of price increases, is indeed a very important question for all Hungarians, as it determines how our daily lives are going. Let us not forget, however, that there is a much more important factor in the size of inflation, and that is our salary, the size of our income. For there are governments where this has worked that income has always been lower than inflation; pension increases have always been lower than inflation. This was the former left-wing socialist government, to which the current DK, your party, was a member, by the way. I think that if we ask this question that, in contrast to inflation, for which the January data is indeed not favourable, but we do need to know that this is a unique figure, because in January there are usually price increases, it is obvious that this will be significantly smaller... If we ask the question and compare it to what the amount of income was, for example, in 2019 and how much inflation was against it, then we can see that income was 11.2 percent, while inflation was 3.4 percent, so that the purchase value of wages increased significantly in 2019. Of course, it is always possible to highlight the price of which has increased slightly more, but if you look at the macro numbers, I think that the government's policy will be confirmed. This is also true for pensions, as every year the government promises to preserve the real value of pensions [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it was able to maintain it against higher inflation, and the real value of people's pensions was maintained or even increased every year. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Congresswoman Venue Anett.
u2020-03-02-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is another major problem with inflation and exchange rate, and this is instability. The opposition drew attention to the fact that the technical exchange rate for the budget varied significantly from the real exchange rate as early as last year, but the Ministry of Finance did not respond to this in substance. This difference has only increased since then, since the technical exchange rate is lower than 321 HUF. At present, this is about 6 percent difference in real exchange rate, but if the exchange rate actually reaches the level that analysts are prognosing, so it reaches 350 forints, this difference will rise above 9 percent. I respectfully ask you that this is not a big difference in the implementation of the budget, and that the government's view is that as long as there are EU subsidies, what we lose in customs will be won in the gap. There is one problem here, Mr. Secretary of State, that Hungarian people pay the ferryman. Thank you.
u2020-03-02-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, in return.
u2020-03-02-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As far as the exchange rate is concerned, the Ministry of Finance has absolutely no responsibility for the exchange rate, in the sense that it is responsible for the exchange rate formation. It is true that budgetary impact needs to be examined, and this has a positive impact on EU support. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Weak people want weak forints! Only weak people, Mr. Secretary. Strong men don't want weak forints!]] and from this surplus we can also finance additional costs for EU projects. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: A weak man wants a weak forint...]] the most important thing is that, on the one hand, people do not have foreign currency loans, and thus the weakening of the exchange rate change does not have a negative impact on them. And the same is true with regard to public debt, where the Ministry of Finance already has a task, but if we look at the government debt as a measure of GDP, then the government debt has been steadily declining since 2010, just because foreign currency loans have also been released at state level. And I think what a government can do to protect exchange rate fluctuations [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the Fidesz-KDNP government has done so in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-02-194	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For a post-municipal speech, the Bulgarian nationalist Varga Simeon has been holding Kossuth's memory for 170 years. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker, in five minutes.
u2020-03-02-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and myself. In the lives of the two countries, we find several events linked to important dates, but this year a centennial year determines the relationship between Hungary and Bulgaria: in 2020 we celebrate the centennial anniversary of diplomatic relations between Hungary and Bulgaria. Hungarian and Bulgarian history has been linked on several points in the last century. Kossuth's emigration in Turkey has left a trail in the territory of today's Bulgaria, as well as in the lives of the Bulgarian people. 170 years ago, after the war of freedom, Lajos Kossuth and his comrades lived as emigrants in the present-day city of the Ottoman Empire in Bulgaria, Vidin and Sumen. The Turkish authorities welcomed Kossuth and his entourage to Şumlága, today's Sumen, with a celebration of the head of state. The five months spent here were a difficult time for Kossuth to experience ordeal. During his emigration, he considered it his main task to promote the anti-feudal nature of the Hungarian revolution with the public opinion of the world and to obtain international support for his people's aspirations for self-determination. The appearance, behaviour, customs, and ideas of the emigrants had a great impact on the Bulgarian population living under Turkish rule, who were increasingly influenced by Western culture; the European pattern of clothing began to spread; modern European music and the arts were accepted. The first Bulgarian band was founded in 1850 by Mihály Sáfrány, a tailor-made artist-loving musician. Fashion trips, the casino, the billiards. Trade has increased; meat processing has developed; the previously banned pig slaughter, sausage production, brewing, car production has been introduced; the Hungarians are connected with the construction and installation of the first steam mill. In parallel, Sumen has become a centre of Bulgarian culture and evolving national self-awareness. The Kossuth emigration has become a catalyst for the Bulgarian national renewal. In 1949, on the hundredth anniversary of the arrival of Lajos Kossuth in Sumen, his former residence, the most beautiful Bulgarian building in the city, was declared a museum, and he was placed here in the memorial exhibition of Lajos Kossuth, organized by the staff of the Hungarian National Museum. Today's historical and political events in the world not only in Hungary but also in Bulgaria and even throughout Europe highlight the importance of friendship and cooperation in preserving our national identity, because we need a great deal of sharing our common historical values for future generations. [[15.00]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to inform the Parliament about the Kossuth commemoration of the conference on Bulgaria, held in the Hunting Hall of the Parliament on 21 February 2020 under the aegis of the inclusion of 100 years of Hungarian-Bulgarian diplomatic relations. Let me also thank all those who helped and supported the event. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2020-03-02-196	Thank you very much, Mr Varga Simeon. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a post-meeting speech:.Family-friendly government? It's an address.
u2020-03-02-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm especially glad that Secretary of State Tállai is still in the room. Then let's do a little math lesson. I would like to read from the KSH publication to Mr Tállai State Secretary: 31 511 apartments were built in 2002, in 2003 35 543, in 2004 43 913, in 2005 41 084, in 2006 33 864, in 2007 36 159, in 2008 36 075, in 2009 31 994, in 2010 20 823. I'm sorry that you've gone out, Mr Secretary, this is a publication from the KSH, and you may not even be able to forge this as you should be able to modify it afterwards. Just to be aware of the subsequent period, I would like to continue to see how the number of successful housing constructions in Hungary, due to the family policy of the Orbán government: 12 655 in 2011 and 10 560 in 12; 7293 in 2013 and 8358 in 14; 7612 in 15; 9994 in 16; 14 389 in 17; it reached 17 681 in 18; and according to the preliminary data, the number of new housing constructions will only reach twenty thousand in 19 according to the preliminary data. So, I would also recommend to the Secretary of State and to the fellow Members of the Fidesz that when they talk about how many years we've taken and what periods we've taken, they should browse these publications. If we are talking about what a serious problem it is for young people to get their first apartment, I would like to say once again that 60-80 percent of 25-year-olds still live with their parents, one fifth of the thirties. And it's not for convenience, of course, that there is a small number of them, but the vast majority of them because they dare not dream of a new apartment, or dare to take on the kind of credit that the Secretary of State has been singing here. We can see very well from the past period that experts believe that the government's housing policy does not solve existing housing problems. We can see exactly what we are seeing, and it is written down by professionals that, because of the loans that have been made over the past period, and that is what you have encouraged me to do, it is true that we are not talking about a foreign currency loan now, but we are talking about a HUF-based loan, another crisis is going to happen that will create another credit trap for the next generation. You communicate that you can take as much credit as you need, not even an apartment, because now you can spend it on whatever it takes, it's true that the condition is that three children are born. It's just, you know, it's an irresponsible policy. When the government tells you to take loans irresponsiblely, it's an irresponsible governance policy. On the other hand... we also see this, and I have to say that the policy of support over recent years has brought with it an unprecedented rise in rent prices and an unprecedented increase in property prices. That is why I said in my previous speech that today in Hungary a 50-square-square-meter second-hand apartment has to be bought for almost ten years, and a young couple has not spent anything else, and has not yet lived. I don't think that's okay. On the other hand, we say that a rent support system should be set up, and that what started in Hungary today is that rent prices are in the sky in Budapest; although there is no need to go too far, often not only in Budapest, but also in rural cities, I said that we are talking about a flat in Debrecen in the case of a 50-square-meter flat, a flat in Debrecen is more expensive than in Budapest. We are talking about building social housing in Hungary, with which you have been very behind in the last ten years. We should talk about how we could give young people a salary that they would not have to run into the loan, but would buy an apartment from their salary themselves, and not from credit. Believe me, as we see your economic policy and family policy, this will be even worse in the coming years. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-02-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group has also applied for a post- Agenda address: the child is important to us! It's an address.
u2020-03-02-199	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, How is it possible for children to be seriously injured in a campaigned slide park? But this fidesz government doesn't care at all. Neither does the 16th. The district government and now the Secretary of State have not been able to give a direct answer on how they intend to prevent further serious child accidents. The transfer of the water park in the Reformers area was scheduled for the October elections. He caused serious accidents at the time, Mr. Secretary of State said: 8 children and 1 adults were injured, and the injuries continued this year. The errors have not been corrected since then. Listen, because I'm making a list of facts. There was a little girl whose tibia was broken while another one's knee was plastered. But there were others who had broken teeth, others who suffered skull injuries. However, Fidesz does not care. It also shows that Fidesz doesn't care about families at all, nor do you care about the safety of children. However, this cannot remain so. You may only be interested in your party, but children's safety is our priority. We cannot allow the negligence and cynicism of Fidesz to cause further child accidents. The Mayor of the District and Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás also claim that the slides meet the standards. That answer certainly does not reassure the parents of damaged children. Then let's review the legislation, which is certainly a government task. This problem is no longer just a matter of a metropolitan district. We represent children and parents, and we don't let Fidesz pretend there's no problem. Together with the families, we will make the mistakes correct, or if that is not possible, the dangerous slides will be closed. That is what we will do, because, unlike you, the safety of children is the most important thing for us. The only thing that was important to you was that the slides were handed over just before the election. The errors have still not been corrected, because then they should acknowledge that they have put children at risk for political purposes. The lower the weight of a person's body, the greater the risk of injury due to acceleration. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State, but he's not here, so in vain: doesn't it mean anything to you about the safety of children? For you, the 16th is so important. Circuit Fidesz leadership to let children get hurt? In addition, your mayor is cynically proud of this horror slide park, and at the beginning, no one was willing to talk to the parents. According to Secretary Tibor Pogácsás, all parents have been contacted in the case. This may have happened before, but it didn't start that way at all. They didn't even admit the mistake first. Later, the municipality kept quiet and did not speak to the people involved. It wasn't until after the serial injuries that they started taking this case seriously at all. They still don't close the slides, they're just looking at the bug, but they still haven't solved it. In addition, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, the Minister, once again, to take their work seriously, because the children are the first. Thank you. [[15.10]]
u2020-03-02-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-the-meet speech:, How long? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-03-02-201	Mr President, Dear House, During the continuation of the series after today's agenda, one is a little sad, as my opposition colleagues have raised a lot of meat-smelling, truly life-smelling topics in Parliament today, typically aimed at Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, but the substantive responses have been lacking in these matters, whether it is the tens of thousands of Hungarian people who have lost their lives in health, whose problems could be solved or prevented under certain circumstances, or even on vocational training, emigration issues, and sometimes we have heard some rather amazing comments. But beyond that, there is an area here, namely migration thematics, where I feel that this government goes perfectly against its previous rhetorical basics, and that you can sell it to your own camp for a while through the footbridge, but then reality comes to light, and the amazing trend is that in Hungary there is a demographic, population-deep flight, unfortunately, a disaster, and the Fidesz-KDNP is lying about it by fleeing into a false reality. Last week's Hungarian Nemzet wrote on the cover that they believed that more children were born in Hungary than before, while 4 of the 90,000 live birth numbers, or 4 of them, were found in the last decades, all four after 2010. I do not mean to say that the population outlook would have been positive before 2010, I do not mean to say that this deep professional issue could be exclusively sewed around the neck of a current government, because it cannot, but the honest analysis of the situation would now be that there is a huge problem, a very big disaster, we find that we have made a deterioration in all indicators, and together all the parliamentary parties will establish a national minimum strategy to deal with the extremely bad situation. Compared to this, the Hungarian gender lying tries to show that there are favourable trends here, although unfortunately not, even the only indicator that could be tied here, the fertility ratio started to stagnate first, and then, unfortunately, to decrease 1 century. So what we see is that there is no, there is no such thing as a population indicator for which Hungary can show success. The welcome increase in the number of marriages cannot be listed here, as it has not been a population indicator, typically in order to reach the family support benefits of the government up from the upper middle class. We welcome you to grow, to stay that way, to keep as many of the couples involved together as possible, and to have as many children as possible, that is our goal, but to perform this in itself as a success would be at least self-deception, a lie. At the same time, we can see from the other direction that this government, although it seems to be taking a strong role in migration issues, is constantly trying to scare us in parts of the country where there is no such danger, is acting differently with the other hand. You may remember, my fellow Members, that in 2015 your leader still signed a closing document to implement quota-like mechanisms. Luckily, the world has turned in the right direction since then, but we can see that there are more and more problems, on the one hand, in the mass of corruption mechanisms brought by the residency bond business, because the Hungarian budget pays for this: we have to pay back the promised returns that we, opposition representatives, did not promise there, but Fidesz carried through this system. On the other hand, importing the mass of migrant workers here raises amazing problems. We can see not only that Cyrillic signs are multiplying in the affected shopping units, near the workers' hostels, and we can not only see that this government is initiating labour-hostels, but, let's say, for Hungarian young people, we can also see that by 2018, twice as many people have arrived to Hungary as foreign workers imported by Fidesz with the intention of working in Hungary as in 2017. And in 2019 there was a specific number war: Fidesz-KDNP does not say that the data published by Eurostat is well over 100 thousand of your 75 000 guest workers, which the one-time Hungarian citizen or representative may believe. At the same time, we can see in the discussions on the slave law that certain forms of labour interest can be seriously broken down by, let us say, breaking down the wage level by installing aliens here, and we can also see that the various professions and industries in which these people can be brought into have been expanded by the government. So we call upon the Government of Hungary to communicate honestly, to explore its goals in connection with these amazing processes, even through the exchange of people, to reveal the economic imperatives that it is now lying and to be honest on the front of migration. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It is not possible that we can show nothing in demographic areas, but by some sort of import of labour they basically started to replace the Hungarian population around certain regions, factories and production units. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-meeting speech: today she launched the Budavári Sikló, 150 years ago. You have the floor.
u2020-03-02-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, They may have gotten used to me trying to remind them of order in my speech after the agenda, for why should we not remember our historic achievements, which, by the way, still have an impact on our lives. Today, 150 years ago, the Budavári Sikló started, which was built between 1868 and 1870, i.e. only two years ago, 150 years ago. This was done on the basis of Széchenyi Ödön's plans or initiative after meeting the first European shuttle in Lyon during his travels. He came home and, using his influence, tried to take care of it, and, well, he did, because in those days, society was enthusiastic about good ideas and the leaders of the country were enthusiastic. Henrik Wohlfahrt made the plans and imagine, my fellow Members, in 1873, so in the third year after the opening, there were 1.5 million passengers a year on this shuttle. Isn't that weird? We had a population of 6.3 million, and a million and a half people traveled this shuttle 150 years ago. During World War II, the working structures were bombed, and after the World War, the remains were scattered in the socialist system. In practice, planning was followed for 30 years, and in 1975 the employees of the BKV prepared a plan for social work on which they began to renovate, build and set off in 1986. It was already on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1987, i.e. one year after its operation and opened on 4 June 1986. How interesting that today there are between 500,000 and 1 million visitors a year, even though we are already 9 million 700 000 tourists, 4.5 million tourists a year visit Budapest, and yet there are so many travellers, but let us not be dissatisfied. However, it draws our attention to the existence of this great creation, to imagine how popular Hungary, Budapest, could have been in the world 150 years ago, if such a transport vehicle, which is special, but it is, was already a million and a half people every year. We need to tell you about Széchenyi Ödön, the man who initiated all this. Széchenyi Ödön Széchenyi is István's younger son, who came into history with some amazing way of life and as a wonderful, diligent, ingenious man. He was the creator of the Hungarian state fire department, but not only of the Hungarians, but also of the Turks, and many countries asked for his opinion when he wanted to create his own fire department. In 1870, after the Budavári Siklo had been built and calmed down, he visited Constantinople, where just before him there was a huge fire, and many international institutions were destroyed during the fire. There was no fire department in Turkey, and this could have led to the fact that there was a lot of things that could not be rebuilt. He then offered his help to Turkey, the Turkish sultan, and it is very interesting, because for years there were various countries competing, especially the Russians, so that they could create the fire department in Turkey, but the Turkish sultan found Ödön Széchenyi's plans to be the best, so he stayed there and created it. He's in Pasa's position, which is a big deal, and he didn't have to give up his faith to do it, but it was a sign of honor. [[15.20]] Why is it important to talk about these issues, besides remembering them? It is important because, for example, this memory shows how great Hungary's view of the world was in those days. Then he also shows that there was a Count, a noble family, who wasn't at home, and didn't enjoy various sea yachts, but was engaged in his country and wanted to create works. I don't see any oligarchs doing the same thing today. And why is it important to remember such things today? It is important because what is today a significant part of our economic strength in Hungary was created in those days. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-204	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Félix Félix Farkas spoke for Roma ethnicity after the agenda, and he also spoke for Hungarians and Roma. ! It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2020-03-02-205	Thank you. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to begin with a sad news: the Hungarian Gypsy suffered a great loss, István Szentandrássy, a Roma painter who died on 26 February 2020. My condolences to the family, make the land easy for him. I would like to continue my speech by asking for the original word: do you want to drive a wedge between the Hungarians and the Roma? I gave this title to my speech for a reason because, on the basis of the Gypsy case in Gypsies, some opposition representatives, together with external support organisations, are riding and twisting the events of the last few weeks concerning Gypsies. It happened that, from 2004 onwards, children were segmented at the Pearl Pata school during left-wing governance. I don't understand why you and the NGO didn't call the Roma out on the street then. Rather than apologize for the silent and idle watching of our then pro-government politicians in the middle of the great change of welfare system, the prosperity of segregational education. [[Gergely Harvesto: But that is not true!]] Then they did not organize demonstrations, only now, 15 years later, and now only to hammer out the unity of Hungary and Hungarian society, to provoke hatred, to break down. You were segmented then, and the current government is helping our talented, well-educated Roma youth with scholarship programmes. I am sure you know how much the Roma network contributes to the graduation of our young Roma students. The previous school year was closed by the 11 Christian Roma schools with 327 students, but last week the Roma ethnic education scholarship was handed over to 35 talented young Roma students at the Ministry of the Interior. And then I didn't tell you about the János Arany program and the Travel Scholarship program. [[Gergely Harvestó: The one we introduced! Shame, shame!]] In other words, it is important for the current government that the Roma complete their schools, professions, graduates and diplomas. I don't know why, but on February 23, 2020, one of the NGOs organized a protest in front of the Parliament. While the representatives of left-wing parties were lining up, the proportion of Roma participants was small. I can assure you that Gypsyism in Hungary cannot be misled. At the moment, I see that opposition politics is nothing more than the fact that apparently standing up for the Roma, they are collecting votes for themselves for the 2022 elections, and they are trying to get Hungary to hate the Roma, the Hungarian Roma, the Roma and the Hungarians to hate the Roma. I would like to ask all the ladies and gentlemen of this House to try to bring together the majority society and the Roma in Hungary. For Hungary, the hundreds of thousands of Gypsies who live here are not a serious threat to Hungary, but rather the fact that, like bald men with boots, the newly assembled opposition wants to drive a wedge, dig a trench between Gypsies and Hungarians [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Felix, don't do that.]] In fact, they want to provoke hostility and stigmatize domestic Gypsyism by their deceitful speech and manifestations. Instead, help you integrate all the gypsies into the majority society who have failed so far. Hungary also protects its nationalities, and because Hungary is committed to racism, anti-Roma and hatred, I trust that no party, no extremist organization will tear apart the people living together and that it will not drive a wedge between the majority society and the Roma nationality living here. I said what I was forced to say last May. It is sad to talk about the deliberate anti-Gypsy incitement to their political advancement. The period of segregation of education and Roma killings was a stain on the life of the Hungarian government at the time. Then they didn't demonstrate to protect the gypsies. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] They don't want to chastise Gypsy with hate speech wrapped in a show of sympathy, they want to vote alongside peaceful coexistence. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-02-206	Thank you, Mr. Wolf Felix. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, also came forward after the agenda, with a few words on Kukaholding. You have the floor, Congressman Varga.
u2020-03-02-207	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Co., or, as we call it, the establishment of the national kukaholding, many of us wondered what kind of spiritual reason this organization could have in addition to the withdrawal of funds and the withdrawal of funds. At the time, we thought that we were seeing another extremely witty process by the government, which is what he had in mind for the wrists of opposition-led municipalities. The idea may have been that the provision of waste collection and treatment and the fee to be paid for it will be separated from each other, and the service will continue to be carried out by companies contracting with the municipalities, but the compensation will be collected by the kuchaholding, of course, after taking the faggot out of it and paying off the work to the companies performing it, if it is paid. In this way, the revenues of the service provider depend not on the fact or the quality of the service, but on the goodwill of the kukaholding. It is possible, therefore, that the companies of the pro-government authorities will receive the exact and complete compensation for their services, but the companies of the opposition cities will only be partially and with a great delay if they receive them at all. In the case of particularly renant municipalities, there is even the possibility that the holding will not pay at all, by which time the waste management company will sooner or later be forced to reduce its service, to stop it, because it will not be able to pay the workers, the fuel of garbage trucks and the VAT, which must be sent to the NAV even if it does not receive the compensation. Of course, the garbage will accumulate in the houses and in front of the houses, and the residents will blame the municipality for the unbearable conditions, perhaps the stench, even though we know very well that it is not their fault. But I must tell you that this assumption was unfair on my part, because the kukhading is the least incriminable discrimination, since it clearly does not distinguish between pro-government and opposition authorities: it has not paid either, at least not in time and not the total amount. Despite its numerous promises, it still owes enormous amounts to municipalities and local service companies, as a justification for the frequently said slogan that there is no left- and right-wing, pro-government or opposition garbage transport and garbage. [[15.30]] Consider my home, the city of Debrecen, the second largest city in Hungary. DHK, Debrecen Waste Nonprofit Ltd. the claim of more than 90 days on 30 January 2020 against kukaholding, write and say 1.3 billion. Yes, you can hear it well, 1.3 billion forints, and I have to add, and this is a significant step forward from last year's end, because this debt was more than 1.5 times as much, but in January, after a long begging, the kukhading, the national kukhading, transferred 930 million forints very graciously. Let's just say that while Debrecen managed to collect the fees herself, the lack of retail payments was only 5 percent, and now the same for Debrecen, please, exceeds 30 percent. Due to the debts of the billionaire Kukahading, not only Debrecen, but dozens of municipalities are barely able to operate the public service. However, while opposition mayors can at least yell at us, speak in this matter, or even initiate enforcement or winding-up proceedings against the kukaholding, the Fidesz city leaders dare not even speak. A good example of this is that at the general assembly of the municipality of Debrecen just a year ago, I proposed the opening of the enforcement procedure, the mayor of Debrecen and the fidesz majority had to be wiped off the floor, and I'm afraid, to this day, they're taking different powders to get their health back in some way. And let's add to that: NHKV Zrt. has also promised a new European standard billing system. And what has come of this? Please, nothing. Compared to this, the settlement is still paper, postal cheques are sent if sent, the balance of customers cannot be traced in any way, the credit card, electronic payment, and the online customer gate is simply a fantasy, not a reality. All this at the time of the 21st century. It was almost a quarter of the century. Dear House, As a result of the history of Dukahlading, there is a reason why the American economist Milton Friedman's Nobel Prize winner's aphorism, that if the Sahara were to be placed under state control, there would soon be a shortage of sand. However, the situation is even sadder [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is better illustrated by the growing belief that the NER system is the reverse Midas. You know, Midas was that guy in mythology. [[The president's ringing again.]] The one who touched it immediately became gold. In your hands, the gold will be muddy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-03-02-208	My apologies, fellow Members, for not noticing that the Member has greatly exceeded his time. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, also submitted a post-meeting address on the report by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child on Hungary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-209	Thank you very much. Dear House, The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child recently published its report on the application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Hungary, unfortunately speaking little good about our country. According to this, more than 200 changes in legislation affecting children's rights over the last five years do not really take into account the best interests of children. For example, it is a serious violation to remove children from the family for financial reasons, yet one third of the children in specialized care were separated from their families by the authorities because of poverty. The UN report also concluded that the civilian control of detention sites had ceased because it had been in force for decades between the authorities and civil rights defenders, and that cooperation agreements enabling this have been terminated by the government in the framework of the campaign against civil society organisations. This is particularly dangerous for children of prisoners, particularly vulnerable to frequent infringements in this area. The report places particular emphasis on the right to learn as a token of social ascent. The right to equal access to education at all levels is violated, according to the report. International measurements show that the Hungarian school system produces increasingly weaker results, moreover, it does not compensate but exacerbates sociocultural disadvantages. School segregation plays an important role in this, against which the government does not act, or the significant funding benefits of church schools compared to state schools play a role. The number of graduates, the number of higher education candidates, and the number of graduates are also decreasing, while the social proportion of graduates is, of course, decreasing. The report also points to the link between early early early school leaving and the age limit of 16 years. The report also reported serious shortcomings in the areas of children with disabilities, the right of assembly, children's homes, the foster family network and child health. The UN report also considers the government's measures against violence against children to be insufficient. Children belonging to minorities often fall victim to violence, often because they belong to minorities, and that is why they suffer violence. Their increased protection would be particularly important, but such measures would not be taken by the government, and even according to this committee, particularly vulnerable groups that have become a priority target of government hate campaigns over the past years, such as members of the LGBTQ community and their minors. In particular, the situation of LGBTQ students exposed to school bullying and disfellowshipping has deteriorated, according to the report, and the UN has called on the government to develop a specific strategy to inform society and support victims, as well as to combat online harassment. According to the UN report, Roma children are often discriminated against, especially through school exclusion and segregation. They find it more difficult to obtain high-quality, full-value education, and when they would be compensated as adults, the Prime Minister will encourage the majority society to become freeloaders. Refugees are also the main targets of government incitement and victims of illegal detention. They must remain in the transit zone indefinitely before they can apply for asylum. The resulting violence has been the victim of several children, and children over the age of 14 are no longer protected by the Child Protection Act. Sometimes children were separated from their parents in the transit zone, not allowing them to share food with their starving families, do they not? The examples listed above clearly indicate the sad reality. It's a wonder the ceiling doesn't break when Fidesz and the government talk about how important it is to have a family and a child. Yes, the child is important to you as long as you leave the birth canal. Oh, there's no future? You don't care. That you're not gonna get the right education, and then you're just gonna be a community worker or a trained worker? You don't care anymore. Oh, that the child can be exposed to psychological, physical abuse for years without any consequences, without the state interfering? You don't care about any of this, because let me help you with this child is not important to you. Dear House, It would be good if, in five years' time, the next report reported significant improvements in all areas, but I am afraid that this will be the task of the next government. Thank you very much. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-02-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, applied for the 75th anniversary of the bombing of Szombathely. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-02-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Never believe that war, whatever is necessary or justified, is not a sin. Ernest Hemingway. On March 4th, we remember the 75th anniversary of the bombing of Szombathely. The municipality of Szombathely county, the ELTE Savaria University Centre and the St. Elizabeth parish will hold a memorial service on Wednesday at 16.15 on the occasion of the tragic anniversary of the Franciscan Church at the Assisi St. Francis College. At the relief of the bomb attack victims, this commemoration will take place, and then the gatherings will walk together to the building of the ELTE Savaria University Centre in Berzsenyi Square, where the memorial plaque on the wall of the building will continue to commemorate. Dr. András Nemény, Mayor of Szombathely, gives a memorial speech. The event ends with the placement of the candles of the memorial. Let us look at the historical background of the events of 75 years ago. On 19 March 1944 the Germans invaded the country, so all Hungarian settlements became potential targets, and Hungary became an operational area. Szombathely suffered the first air strike on July 26, 1944, when only the airport was the target. There's been no more damage. The bombs didn't hit the airport. In the summer of 1944, several waves attacked the airport in Szombathely. One of the biggest attacks was the night of the 8th of August, there was serious damage to the runway and the service buildings, and for several days the workers were not allowed into the area. One of the greatest plagues of the population occurred on 7 October 1944: the railway station and the looming factory were hit, bombs fell on Petőfi and Nádasdy Street, on Széll Kálmán and Szent Márton Street, and on Éhen Gyula Square. As a result of the air raid, 53 sites died on Saturday, most of the victims were women and children. Most people lost their lives on Eagle and Weaver Street. On October 21st, the first strike was given to the rear tract of the Legath House on Main Square, then Queen Elizabeth Street number 1, the next wave was hit by the power generator station. [[15.40]] One of the three waves hit the hospital as well as the ONCSA houses on Akacs Mihály Street. Only 19 dead here. The last wave hit Pick and Grapes, when the Church of the Heart of Jesus of the Vineyard received a fatal hit. By the spring of 1945, however, the danger of the people of Szombathely was eased, since there had been no air raids on the city since 6 December 1944. By the autumn of 1944, the eastern part of the country was already in Soviet hands, part of the population, the military and the state institutions fled to the West. The population of Szombathely, along with the refugees, moved around 100,000 by the end of 1944. At the end of 44 and at the beginning of 45 the bombings of strategically important targets in Western Transdanubia, such as manufacturing military plants, military defense stations and transport hubs, began. After these bombings, Szombathely's population was no longer afraid of further attacks on the city, since all strategic targets were destroyed. Although the sirens spoke regularly, the bombers always went north. On 4 March 1945, however, American bombers started from Italy, adding fighter planes to the bombing of 118 machines in Szombathely. At the Vas county seat the sirens spoke at 11:46 p.m. The bombers then circled the city for a long time, and the attack began at 12:40 p.m. The attack itself lasted only 20 minutes, in five waves nearly 260 tons of bombs were dropped on the city. The first wave hit the railway area, but it hit an elementary school and a cemetery. In the second wave, among other things, a mill, the police station and the police school were seriously damaged. In the third series, the cultural museum, the new water tower and many residential buildings were hit. The fourth wave hit today's main square, the northern wing of the Palace Hotel collapsed, and the Agricultural Chamber building was damaged. Yet the worst was the fifth wave, which was the victim of the cathedral, the city hall, the Bishop's Castle and the county hall. No house on Kossuth Lajos Street has survived. During this twenty-minute period, 3575 of the 4471 houses of Szombathely were damaged, i.e. 80 percent of the houses; 312 houses were completely destroyed and 1028 suffered serious damage. Yet, the greatest tragedy is that 303 people lost their lives in the pointless attack. According to historians, experts, the bombing on 4 March did not have military, strategic reasons, the attackers aimed at demoralizing the civilian population who suffered a great deal and revenge. The attack is now called terrorist bombing. The Vas county seat reached the end of the war as the fifth worst city in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, It is our duty to remember Szombathely's day of mourning and to fight for peace under all circumstances. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-02-212	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Bana. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session will take place on 9 March 2020. Thank you for your work, good afternoon, good evening. The meeting's closed.
