u2020-09-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. At the first free parliamentary elections, Dr. Magda Kovács entered the parliament on the national list of MSZP, and later obtained a mandate in the single mandate district of Józsefváros. From 1990 to 2006 he was a Member of the MSZP for four cycles. From 1994 until 95 he was Minister of Labour of the Horn Government and from 96 to two years he was Managing Vice-President of the MSZP. During his term of office, he worked as a member of the Committee on immunity, the Judicial Committee and the Committee on Social and Family Affairs, and as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Minorities and Religion. He joined the European Parliament in the first election in 2004, where he was Vice-President of the Socialist Group of the European Parliament until 2009. He passed away 80 years of his life. In 1992, György Keleti obtained the parliamentary mandate in the color of MSZP in the 3rd constituency of Komárom-Esztergom County. Until 2010, he was a parliamentary representative of his constituency for five cycles. He was Minister of Defence of the Horn Government between 1994 and 98. During his term of office, he also served as Chairman of the National Security Committee and the Defence Committee. He died in the 74th year of his life. Dr. Tamás Somogyi was also a member of the first Parliament after the change of regime, and in the colours of the MDF he was an individual representative of the 10th constituency of Budapest. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on Social, Family and Health. In addition to his political and public activities, he was a renowned dermatologist, including the chief physician at St. Stephen's Hospital, the dermatologist specialist at the Heim Pál Children's Hospital, and the board member of the Hungarian Dermatological Society. He lived 96 years. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people present salute the memory of the deceased Members with a silent standing.]] Thank you. [[The people present will take their seats.]] Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. Prime Minister, I give you the floor.
u2020-09-21-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to our constitutional customs, with Mr President's permission, I now report on the major developments in the period between the two sessions; first on European affairs. Summer was colorful and mobile in Europe: an election followed. Some of them have serious consequences for Hungary, but I would like to share with you only a summary of the four-day European Union summit. The 27 prime ministers of the European Union reached an agreement on behalf of their states. The subject of the agreement is the next week, but I think it is more of a ten-year financial budget system and specific budget lines. Unlike previous customs, the budget for the next seven to ten years will be divided into two parts. There is the usual budget in the usual structure, and there is a financial fund called Next Generation, which aims to counterbalance the devastation of the epidemic. Before the negotiations in Brussels, the Parliament assigned tasks to me and the government. These are what we have tried to do to the best of our ability. We have had excellent teams; dozens of graduates worked behind us in Brussels and Budapest at the same time, and I would like to thank them for their work. Parliament's first and important expectation was that, in the budgets of the coming years, the Member States in the same situation would be treated equally, and so I would first say a few words on the financial part of the agreement. As far as Hungary is concerned, if we add and subtract everything, we can say that EUR 31 billion will flow net into the Hungarian economy. This represents some EUR 4 to 4.5 billion per year. How much is this? A lot or a little? Our approach, the government's approach, is different from the usual. We watch the entire Hungarian financial balance coming in and out. In 2019 foreign companies operating in Hungary generated a total profit of EUR 9.6 billion. I'm not saying this much was taken out of the country because part of it was reinvested, but that's what they could have done: 9.6 billion euros. Hungarian companies made a profit of 1.6 billion euros in the same year abroad. The balance between the two is minus EUR 8 billion per year. If I deduct the EU funds for Hungary, which is EUR 4.5 billion, then the difference is minus EUR 3.5 billion per year. From this point of view, this amount, which we discussed in Brussels, significantly reduces our capital deficit. It is not the subject of this report, but I mention that, although there are different estimates by 2028, it is risky: we are getting close to the situation of Hungary being a net contributor to the budget of the European Union. The Czechs are sure, and we and the Poles are probably. So by 2028 if the capital-generating profit-generating capacity of 2019 is maintained for foreign capital in Hungary, then by 2028 we should be able to generate a profit of EUR 9.6 billion per year abroad. Then there would be balance. I've got 1.6 of them. It is definitely not the subject of this account, but I would mention that we can reach this goal in two ways. The first is to buy out foreign companies working in Hungary and inform you that this is what is going on - and the second is to increase Hungarian investment abroad; this is what we are doing. [[13.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Overall, I can tell you that Hungary has been able to effectively enforce the expectations imposed by Parliament: Member States in the same situation should be treated equally. Of course, to do so, we had to amend the original proposal which was extremely negative. We therefore end up with the sixth highest amount, and with the exception of Lithuania, who are our friends, so we do not have to be envious of them only by countries whose national income is below Hungarian. Based on objective figures, I can therefore tell you that I have met Parliament's first and second objectives. In accordance with the mandate set out in the parliamentary decision, I initiated the conclusion of the so-called Article 7 procedure against Hungary, even during the German Presidency. You know that, on the basis of political considerations, the European Parliament has been prosecuting Hungary for two years as a result of a legally controversial decision. They asked us questions, we feel we've answered them. We feel that all doubts have been removed, all charges raised in connection with the operation of Hungarian democracy and the institutional system of the rule of law have been refuted. Therefore, we believe that there is no reason why this procedure should be completed. The representative of the German Government confirmed this intention, but he did not make any promises, nor did we receive any guarantees. The chancellor said he'd make an effort to make that happen. On the basis of Parliament's decision, I proposed it to the Council of Prime Ministers, but I failed to succeed in the Parliament's obligation to stop the practice of supporting political parties and organisations disguised as civilians from EU funds. The proposal triggered sharp opposition. Today, Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I can only undertake that Hungary will keep this issue on the agenda. I should not be giving advice to Parliament, but it would not be uninteresting if this issue was dealt with by a separate working group in the Hungarian Parliament. Finally, I would like to inform the President and the Hungarian Parliament that we have also taken an important step towards excluding the political and ideological conditions of financial resources. In the Council, we have made it clear that we are committed to the rule of law, which is what the Fundamental Law requires, and we were when we had to fight for the rule of law against dictatorship in the period of communism. However, we have not covered the fact that the collection of political accusations without clear legal categories violates the principles of the rule of law. What the European Left calls rule of law is actually rule of blackmail, not a rule of law, but a blackmail clause. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Together with Poland, we have managed to ensure that the EU's procedures for extortion, which would have affected Hungary's cohesion resources and financial interests, are not in a position to do so, but do not jeopardise Hungary's financial interests. On Thursday and Friday, the Council will hold an extraordinary meeting at a number of points of view, but on Thursday and Friday. News has spread that you will also be debating this issue, which does not correspond to reality. The Greek-Turkish conflict is on the agenda, which is why we were called together. About the plague. Dear Parliament, We are going through a difficult time, and we are going through a difficult time. An unprecedented pandemic has started from Asia, which has reached Europe and soon Hungary. According to this morning's aggregated data, 31 million people have been infected in the world so far, and nearly one million people who have lost their lives. According to today's latest data, the number of new diseases in Russia has increased by 5960, in the United Kingdom 4429, in the Czech Republic 2044, in the Netherlands 1916, in Germany 1685, in Austria 1637, but what is most worrying is that the number of people in need of hospital care, thus in difficulty, has increased by 35 percent in a single day, and since Austria has been viewed so far and I think it is right that we should continue to do so, that a kind of laboratory for us, which is going to happen there, will also happen later in Hungary, this number should be taken seriously. I would remind my fellow Members that the first patient in Hungary was registered on 4 March, and since there was no vaccine than there is today, and we were faced with an unknown enemy, we had no choice but to slow down the spread of the virus. Our strategy was to buy time, on the one hand, to know the opponent and, on the other hand, to prepare for health care. In a single week in spring, the country switched to a new, yet unknown model of operation. The defense started earlier than most European countries, when the virus had not yet appeared in Hungary, we set up the operational tribe on 31 January, because we knew that those who gained time would gain lives. Thank you, Professor Kásler, who recognized in good time the risk of a virus still far from us to Hungary. The first weeks were shocking, but the country was doing well, and the first battle was won. The facts speak for themselves: the Hungarian health system, which so often is criticized, scolded, unfairly hurt, was able to protect people. That's why the first word is thanks. We should thank doctors, epidemiological experts and nurses who are out-of-force. Thank you to Officer Müller Cecília and the operational tribe, and thank you for the work of Minister Kasler and Minister Pintér. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's in the past. The second wave of the virus is here, we're in, it's arrived, as expected, and as expected. As the first, this came from abroad, it was imported into Hungary from abroad. This is a pandemic, and we live in a globalised world, so we have not only the benefits of it, but also the challenges like the virus. I can inform the Parliament today that we are better prepared now in the autumn of 2020 than we were in March 2020 for two reasons. Firstly, because we have the experience of spring defence and, on the other hand, we have successfully organised a national consultation in good time this summer. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] In the national consultation, people sent a clear message to the government: Hungary must work. People expect us to protect both people's lives and jobs, and they expect everyday life to not be paralysed again by the virus while defending it. This means that we must now defend ourselves against the virus by protecting the lives of vulnerable elderly people, the functioning of our schools, our kindergartens and jobs at the same time. This is a different tactic than the spring, and we have a different plan of action, and we will respond differently than we did during the first wave. Today, there is no need to fear that anyone will be left without proper care. The government made the following decisions on a proposal from the operational tribe. Since the virus has been introduced from abroad, we continue to maintain entry restrictions to cut off the supply route. We make it mandatory to use a wide range of masks in addition to public transport and shops in lectures, cinemas, health and social institutions, customer reception offices and government windows. Anyone who breaks this will pay the maximum fine of HUF 50,000 that can be imposed today, but I have taken the initiative to change the relevant legislation so that the sentence can be increased. [[13.30]] We maintain a complete visit ban in hospitals and nursing homes. From 1 October, body temperature measurement will be mandatory for children and teachers in schools, and only teachers and children will be allowed to access the school building, so the parents of the lower school students will be allowed to measure. We will make the corona virus tests official, the maximum price will be HUF 19,500, and the flu vaccine will be free for those who want to be vaccinated. The nightclubs and catering venues have to close at 11:00 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, The situation is that saving people's lives is not just a matter for doctors and nurses, but for everyone. All humans are involved in the defense, and it really is up to all of us now how successful this, I mean, defense, will be. Young people need to know that they now carry and spread the virus in the highest proportion, even if they do not realize that they themselves are infected. However, if they do not comply with the rules, they may endanger elderly and sick people, especially in their families and environment. We're asking them, I mean, young people, to remember that. They can easily cope with the virus, I hope, but the elderly and the sick can be overcome by the infection. Please take note of your parents and grandparents. I can see that many people are concerned about the extent to which health care can withstand the greatest burden, and whether it can withstand this maximum burden. What I can tell you is that mathematicians, researchers, and professors of medicine working with us say that at worst we can expect 200,000 people to be infected simultaneously in Hungary. If 200,000 people are infected at the same time, international examples show that 16,000 will need a hospital bed at the same time and 800 will need a simultaneous ventilator. It's a matter of taste who believes the mathematicians and doctors, and I'm counting twice that, just to be safe, so I'm saying that the Hungarian health system needs to withstand 400,000 people being infected at the same time, if we don't need 16, but we need 32,000 beds, and if we need more than 800, but more than one breather. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today Hungary has 66,000 hospital beds, and if necessary, we can open additional camp hospitals. The management plan developed during spring is in place, which is that when the capacity is exhausted in a designated hospital, the next one enters the care circuit, where health care workers, doctors, nurses and technicians are transferred from other institutions. Each device and every healthcare professional handling it has their place. Mr. President. Dear House, Farm. You know that the corona virus is not only a threat to our health, but also to our workplaces. If there's work, there's everything, there's a reason why we've made it clear from the beginning that we're creating as many jobs as the virus is destroying. That is why, there is and there will be a special focus on protecting the workplace of Hungarian people among the important issues. We're not gonna let that happen. Where are we now? Now we're talking about more people working in August than in January. In January, 4 million 458 thousand people worked, and today and at the end of August 4 million 500 thousand. With the various grants, investment and wage subsidies, nearly one million Hungarians could receive some form of labour market or training support. 15,000 domestic businesses have applied for job protection wage support, and more than 207 thousand employees have been affected. Nearly 37 thousand businesses have applied for job-creating wage support by 31 August and have undertaken to create 49 thousand new jobs, not only to maintain but also to create 49 thousand new jobs. We have committed 40% wage support to retain highly qualified employees in the R &amp; D and innovation sector for three months. More than 1100 companies have applied for this, and 23 thousand people have been affected. In short, there is and there will be work. But, fellow Members, work is only one thing that you like to know safely at a time like this, and the other is your home. Especially since 2008, this feeling has been strong, when the heads of tens of thousands of Hungarian families have taken their homes from above, the bank has taken their home. So now we need to secure not only jobs but also homes. That is why we have decided to extend the guarantee moratorium by six months until 1 July for families with children, pensioners, unemployed people and public workers. The extension of the repayment moratorium is automatic, i.e. those who have already participated in it have nothing further to do. With the help of the moratorium, we have secured the home of 1 million 600 thousand people, leaving a surplus of HUF 2000 billion for families and businesses. This is 4.5 percent of domestic GDP, the total national product. I think it's a huge weapon. If you look around Europe, you will see that there is no other nation that has shown this type of solidarity and this level of solidarity. Dear Parliament, Jobs can be created through investment, so we decided to invest in our companies. Government programmes are not rescue packages, they are investments, they are not just for the present, but also for the future. Think back to what I said about the country's profit balance. They aim to make it possible for us to grow, not only to defend ourselves, but to grow. This is why we launched an investment incentive programme for Hungarian companies to protect jobs, which, due to unprecedented interest, had to be expanded almost immediately at the beginning: by tripled the original 50 billion-dollar framework, we invested 170 billion forints in Hungarian companies. The result is more than visible: 904 investors came forward, committing to invest HUF 424 billion in the next period, thus protecting 154 thousand Hungarian workers' jobs. The programme for the development of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises has also been launched, with a total of 5.5 thousand aid applications submitted so far, the total amount of investments undertaken is HUF 193 billion and the number of jobs protected is 130 thousand. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up the effects and results of our economic measures, I can say to you that we have succeeded, so far we have managed to protect the jobs and homes of Hungarian people, and it seems that we have also managed to strengthen our companies sufficiently, that is to say we can restart our economy. Remember, after the tragic governance of the left, between 2010 and 2014, Hungary has already been able to recover and re-launch the economy. From 2010 until today, we have created nearly one million jobs, and we can also remember that in the spring of this year the first wave of the epidemic was successfully prevented by the Hungarian people, together, not the government, not the ministers, but Hungary. We're doing the same thing now. We're looking at a rough fall, but we did it once. We'll make it again together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2020-09-21-2	Ladies and gentlemen, After the Prime Minister's statement exceeded 20 minutes, the political groups have 8-8 minutes to respond. First, I give the floor to the head of the DK faction, Ferenc Gyurcsány.
u2020-09-21-3	▪ Prevents collapse in pride [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And failure is puffed up. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's what the Scriptures say. Don't laugh at the Scriptures, fellow Members. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] You consider yourselves and your politics to be Christians, and you are obviously guardians and acquaintances of the Christian faith, of the culture circle, of this direct precedent, and I suspect that you know this part of the Scriptures, and I suspect that you know it just because you know it, and you know that pride and pride will end in failure and collapse, so you are so proud and puffed up. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties, among them: Oh, stop it!]] Today, the Prime Minister published an extremely long, almost boring political essay prior to an infinitely dry, almost meaningless production text. In fact, it wouldn't be worth much in itself, because I apologize to the Prime Minister for the system of misconceptions of a poster-educated man who didn't lead anywhere, but for one thing, and for one thing only, I have to bring it up. In this speech we have heard here, the Prime Minister presents himself as St George the Dragon Killer, where he is St. George and the dragon is the European Union, where he fights hard for the Hungarians while in his article published this morning he basically says that everything the peoples of the European Union, the people of the European Union, is our historic, ideal, political, moral opponent. What on earth are you doing between them? Why are you mixing with them? Why aren't you speaking clearly? The fact is that the European Union is not a dragon, but if it is, I can assure you, this dragon will defeat you. The European Union will never be what you would like to see, because you know that it would never happen that the European Union will force its citizens to choose, that the Renaissance of Reformation or the baroque of counter-reformation, for example, should be respected by its citizens, as you do. We have heard dry facts and figures here, and I read his views on Christianity, the nation, the family, and then I remember the fate of the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood. There's a small Christian community here, a community in a lawsuit, and as I see it, you've been holding a grudge with you for years now, and, as we know, you guys haven't paid them the state support they deserve in years, despite a final judgment. This community is now at the risk of your public utility company turning off energy, gas, electricity, God knows what it is, it can't give shelter, it can't give shelter, it can't give food to people who need it. I don't know what you think of Christianity. I think that Christianity does not mean carrying the cross of the Savior Jesus in the neck, not the mortified prayer, not the regular or unregular visit to the temple. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] It means that I bend down, that I am merciful, that I help, that I see God's creation in man, and that I help him. That's not what you see in a man, it's just because God knows where you feed hatred against Gábor Iványi, hate is more important than the lives of some people. Shame on you! If there is a creator God, and he sees what you're doing, he's ashamed that you're referring to him, and he's supposed to be crying. [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] His tears are the tears of the poor. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks. Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Shame! The president's ringing the bell.]] What happens to the University of Theatre and Film shows that we are truly separated by a world here. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right, that's right.]] Obviously, depending on what our view of the world is, we have an opinion that what art, literature, architecture, theatre, like or dislikes, we think that this adds to our common human, national, European existence, or rather destroys it. I see one of these and one of those, but one thing I know for sure: the essence of art, the essence of science is to rephrase the world by its own rules. Because I don't know what tomorrow will bring, so they're looking in many different directions, and we're gonna find out who's right. A person who wants a single-colored art, a single-minded science actually takes away from everything that makes it what it is, and takes away the future and the choice in the future. You are not building Hungary with this, but killing tomorrow. I do not know what ideas and principles they are in, but I can safely say that I do not see a modern European conservative party, not a leftist, not a liberal, not a serialist, not a Brusselsman, who would think that this could be done. Art is free, science is free. You're free, because it's self-esteem. You are treading on this, and I can tell the Prime Minister that there is no doubt, Prime Minister, that you know this is happening with your approval. It's not a mistake, it's not a crime, it's a tragedy and drama. This is something that cannot be relied on as a reference to national policy. You here, all 133 cowards, dare not hear the free word, the free art, and try to form it in your image. It's drama! Are you ready? They didn't have the energy, please, to have a thermometer at school from September 1st. Wow, that's great work. And now the Prime Minister is proud to announce that it will be as of October 1st. And when you tell him that an on-call doctor might have a ventilator, but there's no staff, you stop him from doing that. The problem is that summer is gone, and you didn't do anything, so if the second wave comes, we'll be ready for that. There was enough of yachts, of course, and God knows what was enough, but in fact, this country is waiting for this situation, you have done nothing. What I can tell you is that they can steal properly. [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Lying to govern, not that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-09-21-4	I would like to point out to my fellow Members a few points in silence, but definitely. First of all, the Prime Minister's exposé revealed that we are facing much bigger challenges than the hearing of an opposition group leader. So if we feel our strength enough to face it, then don't exceed our strength here to listen to whatever it says. You can answer it within the parliamentary framework, and you will get the answer, probably the faction leader. Two. I don't see anyone's face that bothers me, maybe you don't, and it's not elegant to yell in from behind the mask. I say that to the right so that they can understand the future on the left. So thank you in advance for your patience. I now give the floor to the next responder, who is Peter James of Jobbik.
u2020-09-21-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, this country is going through a hell of a rough patch. This country is facing a hell of a time because we not only have to fight the virus, but we have to fight you, too. [[13.50]] You love war rhetoric. He's basically talking like some boring commanding general who's gonna beat the virus and the crisis on the basis of a variety of battle plans. I would add that it doesn't bother me so much, so if you're more comfortable, if you feel more comfortable thinking you're a general, then imagine yourself a general, whatever, just don't steal the ammo. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Because as you know, war requires three things: money, money and money. The fact is that this country has received a great deal of money to fight and succeed in fighting the virus and the crisis. You can remember that, in the first round, the European Union has liberated EUR 5.6 billion in order to protect Hungarian jobs, to protect the Hungarians' wallets, for example, to ensure that in addition to the ventilator there is a specialist nurse and not to hold the word to the doctor when he says that there are no nurses and specialists. Then we know, in writing, that the European Union has provided EUR 40.7 billion in non-refundable support to Hungary from the EU budget and from the EU rescue package, which is a very pretty amount, but we can see that even this is not enough for the managing general to protect and prosper his country, so the government is taking on foreign currency loans. In other words, they spend not only our money but also our children's money. The question is what, because we see that there is money here, and yet this country is losing in the fight against the virus and the crisis. Well, let's put it this way: the economic downturn is about twice the size it was in 2008 [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks:]] ; prices are rising the most in the entire region; the forint has never been as weak as it is now; the number of unemployed has risen by about 50 percent in one year, and I might add. Prime Minister, this is brutal. And in these circumstances, your luxury minister, Péter Szijjártó, said just the other day that the Hungarian economy is growing the most throughout Europe. Well, I imagine that Peter Szijjártó has a good economic situation. He's the one who drives a helicopter for a country ribbon cutting, and he's on the Adriatic yachting for ten million a day, so I believe that the Hungarian economy is strong for him. I believe that you see the Hungarian economy as strong when your dear daughter goes to a Swiss private university to study with a tuition fee of HUF 15 million a year, because you no longer enjoy the Hungarian higher education that you have destroyed. I also believe that you see the Hungarian economy as strong when Comrade Kövér ordered eight wool carpets for HUF 136 million, that is the most important thing now, really, or the Hungarian National Bank ordered two statues for HUF 326 million to pour the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called Hungarian economy into gold, so that we could at least get to know the phenomenon in the form of a statue, because otherwise we do not see them. You will urise and yacht and fly, while the villager has a problem with how he will go to work with the bus to work in the city every day; he will have a job at all; if he has a job, he will live on the minimum wage of HUF 107 thousand; if he gets sick, he will be a general physician who will provide him; who will be able to pay the 20,000 HUF Covid test; he will be able to provide his child with a marketable profession and I could list it. Prime Minister, tell me, honestly, why on earth did you start politics? To get richer? To be more powerful? So the law doesn't apply to you? 'Cause you've already, I mean, reached it. It's just that it would be good to have you do your job and take care of the country's fate. If we are already fighting the virus and the crisis, then the Hungarian government should provide free testing for everyone, and in order to protect vulnerable jobs, the government should take over 80% of the wages, increase the time and amount of the unemployment benefit, exempt below average Hungarian workers from paying personal income tax, in other words: leave more money than the poorer so that they can survive the critical period ahead of us! And last but not least, if someone over the age of 60 loses their job in this unfortunate situation, I beg you not to send him to community service, but to retire him. The money you need, you know, is available. The question is that he keeps it to himself, that he should have something to rule about, or that he would give it to the Hungarian people to have something to live on and to raise a child. Prime Minister! You will have until 10 October to decide whether to steal this huge amount of euros, or to engage in substantial crisis management, substantial job protection, start settling wages, start settling the health situation. If there is no substantial progress in these areas by 10 October, instead they will continue to rag on public money, then on Sunday, October 11th, the Hungarian people will decide on the Borsod interim parliamentary elections, and I guarantee that if Fidesz says no to Hungarians, then Hungarians will also say no to Fidesz. Prime Minister! A smart man always learns from his own mistakes. I know very well that the Németh Szilárdok and the Wolf Florians are not famous for their brains, but you should give yourself an opportunity because there is still a way back...
u2020-09-21-6	Congressman, ease up, please.
u2020-09-21-7	... there'll be no turning back after October 11th!
u2020-09-21-8	...because I'm taking the floor from you! One more insulting comment in this House on someone, and I'll take it away from you. Am I making myself clear?
u2020-09-21-9	I understand, Comrade.
u2020-09-21-10	Here you go, then. I took the floor from you. Sit down. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]] Congressman! At the end of his speech, I would have warned him that this was the last time I let him pass by my ear, insulting the head of the president. [[James Peter: Insulting? It's true!]] But after he repeated it, he left me no choice. If you'd like to look back at your own speech for once, and if you have any more taste and good feeling, you'll be horrified, and you won't allow yourself to do it again. He's not in the pub, because he's gonna get his ass for this, and I can't get him in order here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Bertalan Tóth, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2020-09-21-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I'll try to put it mildly, though it's not easy. Prime Minister, this will not be enough. What we read today, and what we heard here in Parliament today, you called a season opener. I would like to highlight two very terrifying things, one worse than the other, one scarier than the other. One is that in what you have written in this long treatise I do not wish to classify this, I entrust it to the voters to decide whether they like it or not, there is a very frightening thing: it describes the future they intend for our children, and this future is very terrifying. You do not want to see citizens who are capable of critical thinking, able to take independent initiatives, able to think in this country, but you want to raise subjects in our schools in the long term. We will fight this with all our might, personally as a five-year-old practicing father, and we will not allow you to raise subjects out of our children. The other scary thing is already short-term: it has come out from today and from this essay, or I don't know what to call it, that, as they have never been busy with government, they prefer campaigning, they don't want to care about government in the future, but rather about campaigning. Prime Minister, why don't you steer a little bit? You say that Hungary must work, but you do not talk about whether Hungary works. Hungarian people and we also see that Hungary does not work that way. We can't and can't see people, because because of the government's late and tight measure, we have reached a peak in the economic downturn, they are indebted to the country, inflation has broken loose, we are moving towards the social crisis, 400 000 people without work, 200,000 families without care, many families have taken loans to start school. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners today have to decide whether to buy food or medicine. There are over half a million people who are about to be thrown out of the free healthcare system. The number of poor is increasing, and millions are losing their lives. It hits the local governments in the back while doing their job in place of the government. Propaganda has not avoided either the economic or social crisis. Meanwhile, the oligarchs have been paid, and people outside the Fidesz elite have difficulty or no access to proper care at all. The country where power silences the free voice, where they want to eliminate the spiritual center independent of all governments, where public money is available for helicoptering, yachting, renovating hotels, but not to protect jobs, to ensure the livelihood of people who have lost their jobs during the crisis, to increase family support and to catch up on low pensions. [[14.00]] The country where the State Secretary for Family Affairs will now be called Minister and paid more, but there will be no higher family allowance, maternity allowance, children and children. These amounts have not changed since 2010. Mr. Prime Minister, It is not for official price tests, but for extensive, free testing; not for school thermometers, but for thermometers in schools, right now; not for sanctions, but for care and open speech; not for appearances, but for governance. More money for the people, more money for the municipalities! Ladies and gentlemen, It is completely incomprehensible that if we observe the international market situation, we see that energy prices have fallen significantly, energy prices have broken down, why do Hungarian families now have to pay more for energy than it costs? Why nationalize energy companies when profits are made there? You said it would be nonprofit. Why don't you give this money to the Hungarian families? Why do they have to pay dearly for gas, electricity, or district heating? Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! A series of pretend actions and propaganda will not be enough to emerge from the crisis. This system that you build and build is an authoritarian system. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] , which gives a great deal of attention to democracy, to people's livelihoods, and they are only engaged in serving a narrow elite, grating and destroying. That is why we need a change of government and era. We, who are sitting against you and who are working with us to build a world of freedom and legal certainty; where our children do not want to go; where everyone has a chance to make a living and a better life; where there is no need to fear tomorrow, there is no need to fear old age, no need to fear poverty; where learning and healing are not luxury; where people pay attention to each other and where there is solidarity. We want to live in a peaceful, peaceful and safe country. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2020-09-21-12	Now it's Erzsébet Schmuck's turn for the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Prime Minister! I myself have read the article published in the Hungarian Nation, and I would like to begin with the remark that ideological debates, clarification of viewpoints are very important, but this is not the time, and now we have to deal with people's everyday problems. If the second phase of the epidemic goes down, we are ready to engage in this debate, to conduct it, because the real challenges of green policy, today's world, also require a different approach. Prime Minister, on the basis of your speech, I must believe that you are not at all aware of people's everyday problems, of the problems of living, of the fact that, in recent times, the price of basic food has risen to the stars, vegetables and fruit are slowly being retired, low-income families cannot buy. We feel like you've been locked in an ivory tower and the information is filtered. People must go, talk to them, and not refer to a national consultation survey for public relations. Yes, we have faced it, and we have had to face the fact that the second wave of the plague has exploded in the country. During the spring period, we were terrified even when the number of infected people increased to over 100 a day, and now it's about to reach up to 1,000 or more. Prime Minister spoke of figures whose treatment, how it will happen, we cannot imagine. How will healthcare cope with this? You may have been informed of this, or you may have read that yesterday a doctor published an announcement that medical treatment for serious patients is not limited by the number of ventilators, but by the low number of qualified personnel. The question is, Prime Minister, where are you going to get the staff? Staff cannot be imported or obtained, trained, and kept here with proper wages and appreciation. We must say, Prime Minister, that this is the result of the government's health policy in recent years. On several occasions when the budget was adopted, the LMP made use of amendments to make more use of the budget. You have done the opposite: every year, serious billions have been withdrawn from health care and the work of those working here has not been estimated. Unfortunately, in the first wave we saw the serious economic consequences of the epidemic, many tens of thousands of jobs were at risk, many tens of thousands of people lost their jobs and became insecurity. The epidemic, we can see from the data that the economy was hit very hard, GDP decreased by 13.5 percent in the second quarter compared to the same period of the previous year. At the same time, we have found that the government has learned nothing from the first phase of the epidemic, rather than using the money to improve people's living conditions and to make the economy more crisis-resistant and sustainable, instead of spilling money on the Fidesz moonyard. The development of the automotive industry and luxury accommodations has continued to receive massive billions of dollars in support of tourism. Lőrinc Mészáros, thank you, is well, at least as far as his revenues are concerned, has received state aid for billions of HUF during this period. Prime Minister, you have also mentioned that in the coming years there will be a lot of money, a lot of support, billions from the European Union. These resources can no longer be wasted on luxury spending and enriching the fidesz moonyard, but can only be spent on crisis-resistant and sustainable development of the country. The problem is great, and therefore the LMP proposes to the government and expects it to present a crisis management programme to Parliament as soon as possible, which will be able to deal with the current social, economic crisis and the challenges of the future; it will show in particular what the government is doing to tackle the epidemic, to remove bottlenecks in health care, what it is doing to protect jobs, to protect people who are left without income, and to reduce the prices of the runaway, what it is doing for the elderly. We expect the government to reduce the VAT on basic foods from 27 per cent to 5 per cent; we expect social workers to receive the one-off HUF 500 000; and we also expect the duration of unemployment benefit to be increased from three months to nine months; and last but not least, pensioners will receive their money immediately. Allow me, Prime Minister, to draw your attention and the attention of Parliament to the real great challenges facing our time, which, if there are no good answers, we will be in trouble, too, for all mankind and for all of us. One of the major challenges is to tackle the deepening ecological crisis, and not only the acceleration of climate change, but also the drastic loss of biodiversity, the scarcity of water, the destruction of soils, and I would like to mention it for a long time. Another major challenge is increasing social injustice, the fragmentation of societies. I would also like to draw your attention to the need to examine migration in these contexts and to see what can be done if the number of refugees and environmental refugees is multiplied. You in its article, called Ursula von der Leyen's announcement that the EU's CO2 reduction should be increased from 40% to 55% by 2030 as an absurd climate target. I suppose you think it's absurd that in the future the economy will be either green or not. These should be a real debate with the people and here in Parliament. On my specific points, I would like to have concrete answers to the reduction of VAT and the immediate settlement of the situation of pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-21-14	Now it's time for the leader of the Dialogue, Szabó Timea. I give you the floor. [[14.10]]
u2020-09-21-15	Prime Minister! Let me start with a personal question. You know who Gábor Iványi is, don't you? I think of course you do, because Gábor Iványi married you and Katalin Lévai [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Many years ago in the church of Aniko Lévai, I'm sorry. And he baptized Rachel and Gaspar. Let me ask you now, how can you sink to this point, Prime Minister? How can it be that the man, the organization, him and his organization that helps our homeless fellows, the most afflicted, and the one who runs a Christian Evangelical brotherhood, you want to crush it out of petty vengeance? You want to crush him simply because he didn't stand up for your inhumane government in 2010. Only one example showing exactly the false Christian government that you are conducting: while Gábor Iványi is turning off gas in the Christian church and also cutting off support from the Ambédkar School and the Real Pearl Foundation, while giving HUF 3.5 billion from the central budget to the fashion company of Ráhel Orbán's girlfriend this year. I think this shows exactly your priorities. Prime Minister, shame on you. You claim that we should get to crisis management a little bit, that health care has been muscled up and everyone will be cured; you said this on the day when eight people died because of the epidemic; you say that when more than a hundred young doctors have left the country again in the last year because they couldn't bear the moral or financial humiliation that you are in health care; and you say that when a non-graduate nurse who has been working in hospitals for 40 years brings home a net of HUF 120,000 after 40 years, and a graduate nurse who has worked for the same amount of time brings home a net salary of HUF 210,000. I've got the government's official payroll in my hand. Unfortunately, I don't make up these numbers. Then there are the respirators ordered by Péter Szijjártó, a luxury yachter, for which only a professional was forgotten to be trained. It was an unusual sight to see your video, by the way, in which you drowned the word in the physician of the Korány Hospital, who wanted to convince you that this is not exactly the image video you imagined for yourself. You've announced measures for greatness, but it's just another empty bluff, Prime Minister. He announced the need to measure fever in schools from 1 October, and the school started a month ago, so thank you very much for getting up on time. But otherwise, it's quite clear that you have no idea of reality. Allow me, as a mother, to say that we don't let a child into school with a fever, so this is another act to measure fever there. [[Interjections and murmurs in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But they will surely achieve that in the autumn and winter in the rain and in the snow, when hundreds of children are in line to measure fever because let's say that if we count ten seconds per child, that's 90 minutes before the children get into school, if they weren't feverish by then, then they will have fever. An 11:00 pub closing seems like a very good idea, Prime Minister. At least now we know that the corona virus doesn't infect us before 11:00, but at 10:59, everyone runs where they can see, because suddenly the big attack begins. But more importantly, how did you like to imagine that instead of testing free, available to everyone, the price would be HUF 19,500. You on the terrace of the Ritz Hotel, sipping lobster, probably don't know that an ordinary family can't afford it. [[Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And there is no free test, Prime Minister, let me draw your attention to this. (Moraj and Interrogations in the ranks of the governing parties. ) There are some free tests, which are very difficult to fight from the general doctor, which, let's say, people with symptoms get, but unfortunately, we hear from more and more general doctors that the regional public health center has instructed them not to order more tests now, because there are no more tests, so even those who should be tested with symptoms are not going to get them slowly. But let us take a very simple example of who is not sure about free testing! Let's say, in a school in elementary school, a child has a positive test, so, let's say, his sidekick has to be tested immediately, let's say that his sidekick, let's say, has a diabetic mother or a father with cancer, which, let's say, means testing three people out of a family bite, which is 60,000 forints. How will an average family pay that 60,000 forints? [[Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] When they don't get this free test? And, yes, we read yesterday's bluffer announcement from 17 filter points, that won't be enough for anything, Prime Minister. You think that now everyone will have to kiss their hands, that the official price will be 20 thousand forints instead of 30,000 forints. (Moraj and Interrogations in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Shame on you for that, too! You have also talked about the economy, and I think that the economy is part of the people's livelihood, Prime Minister. According to KSH, the number of registered job seekers was 366 thousand in July, of which 190,000 are no longer receiving any benefits, so nearly 200,000 people have lost their three-month unemployment allowance. In addition, interestingly, this has increased by another 15,000 from the previous month, June, so the number of people who will not receive any benefits after receiving the three-month unemployment benefit is constantly increasing. If you consider it among the 200,000 people, let's say some of them have families, then half a million people will be left unattended. Prime Minister, you don't think anyone here in this country will believe that in the second wave, you will create jobs again. [[Viktor Orbán and Dr. Zsolt Semjén nod. Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That 200,000 new jobs will be created in the second wave, when everyone is happy to keep their own jobs. I'd like to ask what happens to mothers who have to stay at home, for example, because their children are sick, they can't leave their children at home alone, and at best, they get 60 percent sick or forced to go on forced leave. Who's helping them? 'Cause it doesn't seem to be in your high-profile actions. We would very much like to ask you, Prime Minister, to think not only of Lőrinc Mészáros, not only of Rachel Orbán, not only of István Tiborcz, but of the millions who are anxious about what will happen to them in the coming months. Unfortunately, there is going to be a gang bang, Prime Minister, but you and the government leave millions of Hungarian people in total despair and full anxiety. What you're doing isn't government, it's not armed to the teeth, it's inhumanity coupled with incompetence. The Dialogue Demands [[Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] to make free testing available to everyone, to raise the wages of health care workers by 50 percent immediately, and to introduce immediately the basic income of crisis management that raises the income of every person who has lost their jobs to 100 thousand forints a month. Prime Minister, this is going to be a very, very serious economic situation, so help the people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
u2020-09-21-16	Next up is István Simicskó, head of the KDNP faction. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, Let me begin by saying that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party thanks the Prime Minister for his information and the work that has been done so far, both to the operational tribe and to all members of the government. The figures, the facts that we have heard from the Prime Minister, are clear; that the country has indeed been able to defend itself successfully, because the government has taken the necessary measures in time and guided by the first and most important objective, which is to protect the lives and health of Hungarian citizens. We should thank you for that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Listening to the group leaders who have spoken before me and this debate, it is clear that there is a difference of attitude and a difference of opinion between us. Who, in this way, who, by the way, made more louder, stronger, but certainly critical comments in accordance with his own hobby, by nature. I have to say that this may, of course, be partly due to the diversity of our upbringing, but it may also come from the fact that we see the role of the state in a different way, for us Christian democrats, our approach of state is different from yours. We have always been in favour of a strong state, we have always voted in favour of a state that is able, willing, and able to act to protect citizens, whether it be the flood, whether it be the migration crisis, whether it be the Covid epidemic or any danger. [[14.20]] That kindergarten-protecting activity is well understood by all Hungarians that this active concern of patriotism, which characterizes a government, a national-Christian Democratic government, is the right path. That's what we expect from the government, and that's what we've seen in the last few months. On the other hand, your sense of state is the weak state, the sleeping state, not to say that we should learn to be small, to create and maintain a state, or even to put an end to the state, because it was also in your left-wing vision, and we can also see the objectives of this, which are reflected in their speeches. And this difference can also be seen in the fight against the epidemic. In conclusion, it is clear that the first wave protection was successful. I must add that the government has taken the necessary measures in time, but there was also a need for citizens' help and responsible behaviour. Prime Minister thanked the Hungarian health workers for their work, and I also thank the citizens for their responsible attitude, who have understood that the decisions made by the government on the proposal of the operational tribe are about them, they are about them, they are made in their defense. We need to see that we were successful and successful in the first wave of defense despite the fact that unfortunately we could not count on the left. After all, we remember that when we were arguing here in Parliament and we asked you for a derogation from the four fifth house rule, you didn't give us any help while you could count on it. All citizens rightly raise the question that it is okay, that we live in multi-party democracy, that there is a lot of debate between the walls of Parliament, but there is an emergency, and yet there is an unprecedented epidemic that we must prepare for, and we must protect people, the elderly, families and everyone, and then there is no agreement thanks to you. It's a sad fact. Allow me to say a few words about the national consultation. You can see from the speeches that you are giving unviable examples of the situations in which you live. The national consultation was about asking people's opinions on how they saw the defence, what they saw as good, right, or less acceptable, how to proceed in the coming period. Everyone knew there would be a second wave, yet you encouraged people, and many of you have actively participated in the work on how to tear up national consultation sheets, how to steal them, and the rest, and so on. They tried to make one of the important feedback monitoring systems of the defence frivolous, what we should do and how we should prepare for the second wave. Yeah, health care's been prepared over the last few months, yeah, they've got a lot of ventilators. There are over 10,000 ventilators available. They've got millions of masks. Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó has provided weekly information on the purchases he has made in order to protect our citizens. Where you tell me why you need so many ventilators, there's a lot of ventilator, and the next week, you say, come on...! If there's a hat, if there's no hat... It's not good if there's too much, and even if there's not enough, there's not... And we keep calling it different with rumors or fake news trying to put people in an impossible position and create a sense of hopelessness while we need to join forces, while we should rely on each other to see that we are there for them in trouble, and we are not just there for them, but we are protecting them and protecting them. Meanwhile, I do not think that we should bring up party political interests here, even if they sound good, within the walls of Parliament. We need to help protect ourselves, and everyone has their place in this. Everyone, even opposition representatives, has a responsibility because they are Hungarian citizens and even representatives of the community. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the past period has convinced all Hungarian citizens that people can count on the Hungarian government, and we are happy to see that. Compliance with the rules is the responsibility of all of us. We, too, decided at the House Committee meeting, under the leadership of Mr President, to accept the rules for ourselves and to wear masks, except for the one who speaks. Body temperature is also measured when entering the House. I think these are important messages to people. Prime Minister has spoken about the state of the economy. I do not agree with Szabó Timea either, but especially in this, that during the second wave, the economy cannot be restarted and jobs protected. Yes, you can. If you think about it and look out a little bit into the world, you will see a number of examples that the danger is also an opportunity, and you will have to start an offensive, dynamism in the Hungarian economy and in other respects when there are dangers, when others are holding up their hands and surrendering themselves. The Hungarian government is also active, involved, wants to do something, and really knows and sees that the economy is the livelihood of all areas, all spheres, and that, let me not say, the protection of Hungarian people and Hungarian families can be the most effective way of preserving it in the present situation. Of course, there is also a need to build other family support systems, but the government has also set off on this path and has been able to deliver many results over the past ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that this period is a test for all of us. I see that the government's decisions clearly serve to make Hungary stronger, stronger than it was before, to make our national community stronger, and to work towards stronger families creating Hungarian society, the Hungarian nation. Together, we are able to stand up and protect Hungarian families, the Hungarian economy, and jobs. And as long as you, honourable Left, are not involved in this work, at least don't hinder our work. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-18	Now it's time for the Fidesz faction leader, Congressman Máté Kocsis. I give you the floor.
u2020-09-21-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The opposition's first speaker was obviously the leader of the opposition, so allow me some thought. Mr Gyurcsány, when Jesus wandered the desert for 40 days, the Devil also tempted him with Bible quotations, misinterpreted Bible quotations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This will get us there right away, Mr Gyurcsány, that the person who lives in a confiscated billionaire villa and comes to work every day is very bad for moralizing and for the poor. And with regard to the University of Theatre and Film Arts, if you will allow me, I'm glad you brought it up, but perhaps you could have explained to me what you meant by the fact that we would be land runners. What does it mean, sent through Attila Vidnyánszky to all his political opponents, that when they fail, they will be runaways? If you hadn't said that, then you'd obviously enumerate it in the political box that you might just consider as cutting, but you have experience in your governance, and yet we're here to confront them when you lecture us on how to govern it. Speaking of theatre, today is the day of the Hungarian drama, and you have given us an exceptional acting experience of how to govern it. Only we remember that when there was an epidemic of avian influenza in 2006, you visited the autopsy of a swan and then told the Hungarians that the vaccine would be available within a month. Then, much later, what you announced as a vaccine, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences stated that it was completely ineffective. [[Depreciation, interruptions.]] But if you are thinking of the financial crisis in 2008, let me quote you from your parliamentary speech on 8 October 2008. How did you handle the crisis? The financial and capital market impact that now shakes the United States will reach Europe to a much smaller extent and Hungary will not be affected. When you said these things, of course you lied because you had already negotiated with the IMF. When you said these things, you decided long ago what restrictions you were going to implement. Hungary was the first to be on the IMF's ventilator at the time. It was your crisis management in terms of the economy. They took a month's pension, took a month's wages from teachers, narrowed down family home-building benefits, narrowed down the possibilities of children and children, closed hospitals, closed schools, bankrupted municipalities, stopped the home-building program, and tripled the price of gas and electricity. That's why we're having a hard time teaching us all these things. But if you'll excuse me, let's move on. [[14.30]] What you have said is a big billboard proclaiming to all of us all the damage that your government has suffered, especially under your government, and proclaiming as a billboard how a self-confident, power-driven, violent man is compared to his political opponents, how he feels about his own country, if his daily political interests so desire. I would like to say to you that I know you don't love me, but you don't like to hear that we are political opponents, and you chased us in police practice on the streets of Budapest, when the 2006 police officer was conducted under your authority, you didn't have any problems with the issues of the rule of law, there was no question of democracy, you didn't press these matters. I would also like to remind you that everyone in this House knows clearly that when it comes to political opponents or the interests of the country, you are not afraid to go against anything, and you also need to know clearly that we also remember the times when you threw the Hungarian gypsies away as a provocation to paramilitary militias, and we know all the methods of a sinful, evil and unloving government. Let's just ignore the fact that you bankrupted the country because you know it, and we've said it many times, but it was the 14th anniversary of last week when you told the lie you called the truth and made it public that you would have matured to resign, but you didn't, and on this 14th anniversary, it's worth remembering what it meant to this country. Dear Mr. Gyurcsány, Since then, I have seen it in social media, here, there, trying to change both its tragic, failed government achievements and the lie speech of the truth speech, to make it appear differently, and, of course, to use the old anti-false Bolshevist trick that says that we will see what the past brings. But if we see what the past brings, then you will have to constantly face the fact that you are the best, regardless of whether you are leading the entire opposition now, if you are not giving advice on government, and if you are not teaching us either from a rule of law or from democracy or freedom. I would also like to tell you that when you demand a free test and because you may have the greatest impact on that political side, you do not like to tell the truth. Wasn't it you who first paid for health care in Hungary? What do you say, Prime Minister, if you stay on the government, how much would the hospital allowance or visit fee be now? How much money would you want from people during the plague? Why do they say that there is no free test when all Hungarians know, not just the person sitting here, everyone involved in the epidemic, that if a doctor orders the test, they don't have to pay for it? Why do they say the opposite? [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] But why would they say the opposite? (Intercoms from the opposition. ) Please, every false news and I'll go on: you're not spreading false news about the plague, you're spreading rumors, it's much worse, every single rumor increases the risk of spreading the epidemic. In the spring, we couldn't count on you, you didn't vote for the Crown Virus Act, you didn't vote for an extension of the emergency, you had faked the health workers, and you slandered our country abroad. Stop lying! If you can't help me, at least don't hurt me. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And finally, I apologize, Mr President, Mr Gyurcsány, for the words of DK's lucky candidate. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-20	I ask the Prime Minister that he wishes to use the possibility of rejoinder. [[For signal:]] Here you go, then.
u2020-09-21-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We haven't heard anything new, and I don't want to say anything new, but parliamentary courtesy still requires that I answer in a few words. First of all, the Prime Minister said that he would prevent the collapse. It's a valuable observation, and it gives you the torque of a personal example. Thank you very much for your warning. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That the European Union is its dragon: I believe that there is a conceptual difference or misunderstanding here, because the European Union is not in Brussels, so we are not arguing with the European Union. The European Union is in Warsaw, Budapest, Berlin, Paris, because Europe is a union of nations, the European Union is a community of nations. We have a debate with some European institutions, and you completely misunderstand that, and I see that the left cannot make this difference either, the distinction between the European Union of nations and the individual European institutions, and therefore our debates with the institutions, which are undoubtedly there, are always understood as a complete misunderstanding of the debate with Europe. Please, think about this. What you have said about freedom of science, art and freedom of expression, I feel this is important. I remember when he was a left-wing government, the Minister of Economics said, and it didn't have any effect on the freedom of science, that if we take money from the Academy, he would think that they wouldn't ask frogs before they drained the swamp. I remember that, so we're happy to take your comments on freedom of science and art. And freedom of speech comes to our mind when we hear you shoot people's eyes out. You've ordered a cavalry attack against the people. They beat innocent people to blood on the streets, women, women, indiscriminately. Don't you remember that? Dear Jobbik, your new friends, don't you remember that? They knocked out people's eyes, beat them bloody! Everyone saw it! Don't you remember that? It's okay that you are now in league with them, but you applaud the comment of the man who ordered all this, my dear Jobbik. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, As for preparation, I would like to say two things. First of all, I would like to thank the operational tribe, which is not a few people, but a lot of people, because behind it there are a number of working groups, and I would like to thank all the members of the operational tribe for working every day all summer. I would like to thank Deputy Prime Minister Pintér, who led this work, and Minister Kásler, who has been helping this work all along. Those who now claim that the country is not prepared are not arguing with the government, they are not questioning the government's work. In Hungary, thousands of people have worked all summer to prepare health care and the whole country for the second wave. When you question the country's preparedness, you question the work of these thousands of people. Because they should finally understand on the other side that the government is not defending itself, Hungary is defending itself. The government is not in trouble, Hungary is in trouble. We all defend ourselves, of course, except for you, who have announced that you have only one purpose in this epidemic, in order to overthrow the government. That's all I had. Everyone's defending, everyone's helping the country, everyone's teaming up, except for you, who still have power and money on their minds. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The leader of the Jobbik faction, who said that both the virus and the government are considered opponents, has told us this very clearly. That's a problem. It should be recognized that they may consider the government an opponent, but it's a different kind of opponent than the virus, because it kills people. So I would very much like to ask the opposition parties that, despite their opposition to the government, please make a distinction between the government and the country, between the feelings we have for us and the way we should act at the time of the virus. Don't hate us like we hate the virus. The virus kills people. So please be kind to this idea that you must hate and fight the virus and the government at the same time, put it aside, which is harmful, detrimental and immoral for the country. [[14.40]] The reason they didn't cooperate with us in the spring is because they told us that we have introduced an extraordinary legal order and that we can't, under these circumstances we can't cooperate. Well, there's no special legal order now. Then why don't you cooperate with us? There is no extraordinary legal order. Why don't you take part in the joint defense? Instead of doing that, the leader of Jobbik's faction reminds us of the lucky election while speaking in the name of the poor. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you to step in and have Jobbik's lucky candidate pay off all the seams you've hired. If you want to help the poor, at least help them. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Who are not paid by your candidate! They also mentioned minimum wage. Jobbik was not a parliamentary party at the time, so you don't know, but I'll tell you that in 2002 the minimum wage was 50,000 forints. That's when the Communists came back. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] In 2010, when they left again, the minimum wage was 73,000. We managed to raise it from 50,000 forints to 73,000 forints. If you look at the current figures, you will see that today the minimum wage is 161 thousand forints. You can sense the difference and you can see the trend. Do not interfere with our work, but help us to raise the minimum wage further. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Bertalan Tóth on being elected president of the MSZP. At the same time, I would like to remind you that there must be some misunderstanding between us that I am happy to disperse, by the way, because you said that our education policy and its spiritual foundations make children subject. I obviously don't think you said that with malice. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] It's obviously a misunderstanding. I don't think patriotic education makes children subject. We want patriotic education, we want everything that our ancestors have put together, built up, created, created in a spiritual sense, understood and carried on. That's all we want. It's not a subject. We want to raise our children into patriots. It's a complicated process, it's not easy, family man, and you know it's not easy, because children don't stand in the doorstep and take orders. Getting them to understand that being a patriot is a nice thing, it's a serious pedagogical achievement, but it's definitely not the same as being a subject. I think you've misunderstood that distinction somehow. The head of the faction also talked about the pensioners. It always hurts me because you'd think that politics is about time, experience, and facts. When you start talking about pensioners, all I can think about is that it wasn't you who took a month's pension from them? We're working on giving this back. Just now, from 1 January, we are starting to rebuild the 13th month pension. What you've taken, we're starting to give it back, and I'd like to say we're going to give it back. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] You keep throwing the debt of families at our heads, but I remember that the currency loan brought the families into bankruptcy in the first place, and we had to make a huge effort, the entire financial government, to pull them out of this trap. It is also worth remembering that if we look at the proportion of support for families in the Hungarian budget policy, I say it with modesty, because I do not want to fall into pride, it is better to avoid it because it will end badly, the Prime Minister is right [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] So, I say with due modesty, you can see that we spend the most of our budget for family support in the whole of Europe. All over Europe, even though we are not the richest country in Europe, and yet we are. Mr President, Fellow Members! The MSZP demands a reduction in gas and electricity prices. Good for you. But what I do remember is that when they were on the steering wheel, the price of the gas was tripled and the electricity was doubled. Do you think that's okay? You could also say that we've already made this mistake, we've raised the price of electricity and gas, and you don't do it. And I promise you, we're not gonna lift it, because we took it down, we're part of the reduction of the rent, and you've always been in favour of increasing the rent. That difference, please don't forget. I also have several debates with Mrs Schmuck, and I do not want to repeat them and I do not want to make jokes, but I liked it when she said that she could not imagine how to overcome this crisis. It occurred to me how fortunate you are to be in opposition. [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] And the debate that relates to the training of staff has repeatedly been held here in my hearing by several opposition representatives with Minister Kásler, who has clearly explained how we have trained people, how many there are, how the training of residents is progressing. The truth is, not only is it a tool, but there's enough people to operate our tools. It is difficult to understand, despite any debate, why my fellow Member, Mr Szabó Timea, is opposed to fever measurement at school. I think that's necessary. What I don't understand is why you're making fun of the operational tribe when you decided to close the nightclubs after 23 hours. It is possible to argue on this, of course, but my understanding is that, when it comes to such simple matters, it is best to listen to the professionals, who have answered, quite clearly, to our repeated question, yes, they think that this is necessary and that we should do it. I also do not understand why if there is a virus test around 30,000 forints and the government introduces an official price, reducing the 30 grand to 19500, why should we be ashamed of this, as you have advised. I think it's the right thing to do, and I don't want to accuse you, but I would like to add or mention that anyone arguing against the official price today is arguing for test speculators. [[Timea Szabó and Ágnes Kunhalmi intervene.]] And as for the salary increase for healthcare workers, you said we should raise their wages by 50 percent. I would like to say that in this parliamentary term we are in, the nurses will receive a 72 percent increase in wages, and Minister Kasler and Minister Pintér are working to achieve a breakthrough medical wage increase. Please support us in this. Mr President, In conclusion, I would like to say that my fellow Members can be sure of one thing: we will do everything we can to protect Hungary, we will not change our method, we will defend Hungary with national cooperation, we will protect Hungary together, and if opposition representatives change their minds, then they can join this cooperation. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-22	Dear House, It is now time for the speeches before the announced agenda. First, I give the floor to the leader of the Dialogue Group, Szabó Timea.
u2020-09-21-23	Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the autumn parliamentary session, it is possible for one to share one's thoughts on the future of this country in the longer term. We have now heard some strange talk from Viktor Orbán, which is not entirely friendly with reality, but what is more interesting is that today the Prime Minister published a more detailed line of thought in the government's propaganda base, which, in the best sense, was a completely confusing discussion about Europe and the decline of liberal democracy. I wasn't lazy, and I counted that in this article, the Prime Minister described 36 times the mutilated form of "libers" or "liberal" words. The line of thought was much more like a fight in a psychodramatic group, in which Viktor Orbán still struggles with his old, unprocessed grievances than with the future vision of a statesman. It is no surprise, my fellow Members: when the government of Viktor Orbán has been in complete ignorance for years, we cannot wait for anything else. The crisis has finally brought to light the lie that the government would be the first to prosper and be happy for the Hungarian people. The first wave of the coronal virus epidemic showed that any country could be in a position at any time, even without its own fault, to slip out of control. These are situations where it becomes clear that a government is actually fighting for people, for the well-being of its own country, or instead continuing to spill lying propaganda and fatten its own oligarchs. [[14.50]] Orbán used these critical times to give Lőrinc Mészáros HUF 186 billion to fake hotel renovations, while half a million Hungarians lost their jobs received the same amount of money. Viktor Orbán used these critical times to buy a new carpet for 136 million forints, but he has the most vulnerable to pay for their own emergency care. Unfortunately, the result is a picture of a country where it is clear: only the privileged few of Viktor Orbán and his government, their own family members and friends, and millions of people should cope with job losses alone, salary cuts, medical shortages, insecurity and anxiety. In the dialogue, however, we want a completely different country. We want a country where no one has to worry about tomorrow; where every child has dinner; where the elderly do not get cold in winter in their homes, and hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs can rely on the help of the state. In short, we want a country where it's good to live, where everyone can feel at home. And we can only create this home by introducing the basic income. It is no coincidence that everyone from Pope Francis to Mark Zuckerberg now supports the introduction of the basic income, including 80 percent of the Hungarian people, according to all the research carried out so far. The basic income guarantees Hungarian adult citizens HUF 100,000 per month and children HUF 50,000 per month. This benefit not only supports the poorest, but also boosts workers who have lost their jobs during the crisis, while respecting eviscerated workers, for example, a nurse who earns 120 thousand forints can bring home the basic income in addition to his salary. It is important that the Dialogue also raises the net minimum wage to HUF 166 thousand per month, so that employers' burdens do not increase. Raising the minimum wage is, of course, also an answer to the question of whether the basic income encourages work, and the answer is yes. Anyone who can choose between 100 thousand forints or 166 thousand forints clearly chooses 166 thousand forints. Of course, the basic income is not due to the richest, since Lőrinc Mészáros does not need to bring this basic income home, so the basic income does not belong to people above about one and a half times the net average wage. The package, calculated at the last penny, can only be managed by a budget transfer of HUF 3300 billion, while maintaining budgetary balance. The crisis has shown us all: either we take a real step to make people better, or we will never be able to live in a country like that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which is everyone's home. Thank you.
u2020-09-21-24	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-09-21-25	[[His mic won't say.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and
u2020-09-21-26	Mr. Secretary Tamás Schanda's microphone, please. [[It's happening.]] Here you go. Thank you.
u2020-09-21-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and So far, we have believed that you will change in this parliamentary session, and that what we saw and heard from you in the spring is irresponsible and hysterical, rethinking, and on real issues, based on real facts, can be a real debate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Unfortunately, everything goes on, lying, saying big things, making noises. It seems that the Dialogue was given the task of György Soros to create uncertainty and anarchy among the Hungarians, and we will not allow you to do so. [[Timea Szabó and Bence Tordai keep interrupting.]] You're constantly attacking the defense, you're constantly attacking those involved in the defense, discrediting and making their work more difficult, irresponsiblely burdening them. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We're still asking you not to do that. Work for protection, help all those involved in the fight against the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You were the one who even complained that you criticized the government for helping Hungarians across the border with a few thousand protective devices. You made Hungarians out of the border and criticized the government because we also helped people from the Hungarian community and supported their defence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have no illusions about the left and his methods now. We have seen this before, also under the administration of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We can see that there are still different party logos on the opposition side, sometimes there is a quarrel between the ranks, but in fact there are no parties with independent will. Some have been created, like you, to represent the interests of the Soros network, which is why they have developed, which is why they have started political work, and some have just recently joined this choir. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is that protecting jobs is a key issue, since it is necessary to protect jobs in order for Hungary to be able to operate. We've taken a lot of measures to do this, and you know it, if you'd paid attention in the last hour. This was the case with job-creating wage subsidies, job-protection wage subsidies, which enabled hundreds of thousands of people to keep their jobs and create new jobs for tens of thousands of people. The results of this are also visible. We must be proud of these results, and we must defend these results, since the number of registered unemployed has been decreasing since mid-June, and we can now say that more people are working in Hungary now than at the beginning of the year, in January, before the outbreak. We should be proud of that result. And we want us to get back to the way we used to in job creation as soon as possible, because our goal remains the same: let everyone work; let everyone who wants and can work get to work. Allow me to draw attention to the fact that this government has already demonstrated that it can create jobs: between 2010 and 2020 the employment rate has risen from 54 per cent to 70 per cent and the unemployment rate has fallen from 12 per cent in 2010 to 3.3 per cent. Madam Member, there is indeed a difference between us is not one, because our thinking is about protecting jobs and work, your proposal, and basic income would actually mean aid, an aid that could be paid if someone didn't work. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In addition, it would cost an incredible amount of money, which we have already seen with credit in line with left-wing policy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And they'd want to fund me with a tax increase. We say no to that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Let us talk about facts from the Group of the LMP, Mr Csárdi Antal has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-29	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Yes, I think we should talk about the facts, and the facts today say that the VAT on basic foods is more than twice the European average. Let's talk about the facts, because you talk a lot about crisis management, but you don't realize that anyone who needs help is the working man, the engine of the economy. And I have a sacred belief that there can be no other purpose for any government, whatever color it is, than to establish a fair tax system. Today, we are talking about paying more taxes on the purchase of bread, vegetables, and fruits than going to a restaurant of our choice. [[15.00]] Let's be honest, it's not okay for me to quote Prime Minister. Because it is not okay that if a family of four spent 12,000 forints, this is about the price of a restaurant lunch today, then he will have to pay a tax of just 500 forints, while if he goes to the market and spends the same 12,000 forints on potatoes, onions, apples, rice, and I can list basic food for a long time, then the same tax liability will rise to more than five times that, to more than 2500 forints. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this is not okay. I am simply appalled by the fact that every day you take it completely natural that the basic foods that fall within the turnover tax band of between 7 and 12 percent in Europe are 27 percent in our country. Practically every bread sold, every vegetable sold, every fruit sold, they slowly gain more profit than the one who produced it than the one who sells it, and I think it's not okay. This is not right, because I am convinced that the social need that appears behind this demand draws attention to a real problem. We all know in his speech before the agenda, Prime Minister, that there are difficult times and difficult times behind us. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be good for you to see this. It would be nice to see that the working man is in the most difficult situation. Hundreds of thousands of our countrymen have lost their jobs from one moment to the next. The same compatriots have not been able to find jobs in part or since then, partly or not in their profession, and typically there are many people in this situation, and they are forced to work for much less money. I think that if you want to focus on the work and the results of the work, then there can be no question that the income of the working people should not flow into the VAT of basic food, which is essential for a healthy, daily life, but that I think that luxuries and I consider a restaurant lunch as such, yes, those should be taxed with a higher tax rate if you do not believe that there is a budgetary resource to reduce the VAT on basic foods. But I would like to point out that there is a budget for this, because in that country, I find it hard to imagine that there is no budget for this, where we have money for the world's hunting exhibition for 50 billion forints. I think that in a country where there is money to build an engine track for 65 billion, there is also money to reduce the VAT on basic foods to a much more equitable rate. I think it is a legitimate demand of the entire Hungarian society that we do not consider that basic food is a luxury. Let us not view it as a luxury to obtain healthy food, and it would be good not to punish those who buy it with a luxury tax. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-21-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have certainly been watching politics since 2010, you can see that the current government's tax policy can be summarised in one word: tax reduction. Tax reduction in personal income tax, corporate tax, social contribution tax and many other smaller tax types. It is very important that the government can keep this and reduce the tax every year. The results of this are reflected in the tax burden on GDP, as it is currently 36.3 percent, with a significant decrease compared to recent years. At the same time, I must say that your party is showing political ambiguity in terms of tax policy. I am saying this because in 2018, when they started with a programme in the elections, the following was proposed to the Hungarian voters: you raise personal income tax, make it multi-band; you rearrange the key to corporate tax, make it two-key; you remove the tax relief from your website, which I read, introduce the luxury tax in the area of property taxation, the large estate tax. [[Bence of Turdai: Very good.]] , raises the toy tax; there is an increased burden on the product fee that people pay, in the mining fee, in the public use fee; they want to raise green taxes and introduce a greenhouse gas tax. You talk about tax cuts once, and your program has a tax increase. As far as the specific issue is concerned, you would like to reduce the VAT rate for basic foods, this is a correct effort. This is what all governments are trying to do to make people's consumption as cheap as possible. However, when you have to act in Parliament, the legislative proposals tabled by the government, which contain VAT reductions, have not been voted in any case since 2014. From 1 January 2014, the reduction of VAT for live and half-carcases, the reduction of VAT for bovine, ovine and caprine animals from 2015 and 2016 [[Antal Csárdi: Half-pig?]] It came into force from 1 January 2017, and the VAT on poultry meat and eggs and then fresh milk was not voted and I could list it. In Parliament, you have not voted in favour of only one VAT reduction proposed by the government. Now, of course, in opposition, when you have no responsibility for governance, you have no responsibility for keeping the budget balance below 3 per cent, that you have to collect tax revenues, you have no responsibility for creating resources against the virus for the acquisition of assets, the preparation of health care, you have no responsibility for the resources available to protect the economy, restore jobs lost, create new jobs. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Lőrinc Ripper!]] It is therefore obvious that you have come up with a bill. In that bill, once again, it is basically eligible to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%, but you have no responsibility for this loss of tax revenue of HUF 200 billion and how to achieve this. [[Gergely Harvester: Steal less! Intercoms.]] The fact is, of course, opposition irresponsibleness can lead to every tax reduction every week. I think that this is a more complex task, more complex, in the sense that, first of all, we need to look very carefully at the fact that VAT reduction is indeed a reduction in consumers' prices and less expenditure. Unfortunately, this has not happened in a large part of the cases. But, of course, the proposals will be considered, and the government will examine the proposals for VAT reductions. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the Group of the DK Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-33	Thank you very much. I'll be brief and objective. The debate that is taking place here in this House, whether the government is handling the coronal virus epidemic correctly, I do not wish to continue. We seem to disagree on basic issues. I would like to make one more general point. The national unity you want in this important matter cannot be established as a government dictatorship. Those who wish to talk about national unity and agree on this with Parliament must involve the opposition parties of Parliament in each stage of dealing with the viral crisis. [[15.10]] To raise awareness of analyses, to familiarise yourself with alternatives, to familiarise yourself with possible steps; and to be ready to compromise on certain matters. This gives you a chance to create a national unity. By asking the majority of the government and the head of government to support him in everything, I honestly think it is not the national unity, but the warmbed of pro-state thought. But I don't want to keep doing this. I would like to make one comment in total. Our debates have a very clear point. We see that it is right to demand and demand that many people have access to testing, essentially without limitation, free of charge to anyone. This is what many countries in Europe do, so it is not a need that has been thrown away from the ground. You don't want to understand. We can say this ten times more here, opposition representatives, it is clear that we are not going from one to the other. I propose that we hold a referendum rather than a national consultation on this issue. I think it is necessary to propose, if possible, that opposition parties should also be jointly initiated to launch a normal, public-law binding referendum process in order for the people to demand that you give them a free test for everyone who thinks they are in danger. Then we'll see what the people decide. You are supposed to be friends of the people, and I welcome your representatives' support for such an initiative, and we will not run from it. A referendum on the free Covid test! Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-09-21-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I understand you're missing the collaboration. I also think that there is a need for cooperation in such a situation and in every difficult time, but I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that you have, with all your might, been interfering with cooperation over the last few months. We can give you thousands of examples. If, by the way, you want a compromise driven by such a sudden idea, let's say you start by not attacking health leaders. They'll even try for one day not to attack the health leaders who are fighting in the front line right now! By the way, I think it is absolutely natural that, in a difficult situation or less difficult situation, there is a noisy debate between the opposition and the ruling parties, especially here in Parliament. But the only expectation we have for you is to stay on the foundation of the facts. And that's the case, even if it's a rather brave expectation for you, and it's bold. And in your speeches today, allow me to include the previous one in the same logic as this weekend, if I understand correctly, in your speeches at an online conference, and I cannot comment on a few points. They could say yesterday that Hungary is the only state that does not help during the crisis. That was the statement you made. Just like this: Hungary is the only state that does not help. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] You know very well, and now let us look at the economic aspects here, that only this year's budget has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to crisis management; and if I look at next year's budget, then the cost of life protection is set at 3000 billion, and the expenditure for economic protection is set at 2500 billion. [[Intercoms from the DK benches.]] And these are not just abstract budget lines, because there are concrete support measures coming from them: procurement of assets, additional benefits for health care, wage subsidies, investment grants, tax reductions, a lot of support that serves two main objectives: the protection of life and human life. Well, we don't expect a opposition party, yours or the others to propose these measures, but we do expect them not to make any false claims about them. If it were health: if you were in government now, if you had remained in government, health would now be paid. Now everyone who's caught the coronal virus or in contact with an infected one should pay for the supply. [[Gergely Harvester: Lies! Crying from the DK benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] On the other hand, when you rise to say something about health, please add that, compared to your government, we spend 915, almost 1,000 billion more on health care, the salary of specialists is two and a half times the level of health at that time, and the wages of nurses will reach two and a half times the level by 2022. As for the tests, I'm glad you brought that up. Yesterday they made a statement that eight out of ten tests were paid out of their own pocket by the Hungarians. Another untruth, another misreality. Contrary to the claim, the fact is that most of the tests are free because they are done according to protocol. From all these examples, it is clear that the left is once again taking to the top the fake news generator that was installed in the spring. [[Gergely Harvester: Shame on you!]] They're circling rumors about statistics, fake paramedics, the number of hospital beds, and, as the example shows, the tests. Let's just say it's because it looks like they're rooting for the virus in the second wave that's just begun. [[Intercoms in DK's benches.]] Many of us hope that the time will come when they will try to strengthen the cooperation of Hungarians, not weaken them. Do it at least when it's a difficult time. And by the way, one more thing was spectacular about yesterday's speeches and also today's speeches: that they spent most of the time talking about the 2022 election. [[Intercoms in DK's benches.]] Such a list, such a list, such a pact, a pact, a joint start, a candidate, two candidates, a prime minister casting. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Anyone who has listened to this can get a clear picture of what is important to the left [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] It's just the power struggle. The whole country is fighting the virus, and you're talking about positions 2022. Congratulations. Shouldn't we at least put this aside? At least at this hour? ! I can tell you one thing: with the fight on the Conn, false news production and the constant attack of health workers, there will be nothing to add to the fight against the epidemic, and there will be no compromise from that, Mr Group Leader. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Something hasn't changed since the fall: the left can't be expected now. Thank you for listening. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tamás Harangozó, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current issues. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is indeed a topical issue, and this is obviously what we were talking about before: high-level ideological debates or discussions that appear to be. Compared to the Prime Minister's agenda, I would like to talk about the outbreak of the virus, the health of Hungarian people and what is really going on in this country. What I can tell you is that I've listened to every single speech of the Prime Minister's speech in a fool's way. We also allow him to perform with a military jargon, that Hungary and the government are prepared for the second wave in every way. Fellow Members! It's not like that. I'm sorry, I believe Mr. Csaba Dömötör doesn't wait days for the ambulance to come out and test him. But you, for example, Fidesz Members of Parliament, don't tell me that you're going home in your family, not in your circle of friends, a man who tells you how this system really doesn't work for members of the government, not for privileged people. Ladies and gentlemen, I just went through it in person. Unfortunately, a direct relative of mine in a household became covid-positive, viral. He did his own test at cost, his own private test, so we can't know how many days later the ambulance would have come out. But what I can tell you is that it took three days for the CDC to check in with us after the positive test to say good day to you. It took four days for them to make a decision that we should be quarantined. My family's next of kin, by the way, called the ambulance last Saturday because he was sick. They arrived on Sunday. This Saturday, no results came from the test, and then the ambulance went out again; again, after a week. [[15.20]] This young man is a day student. What was he supposed to do? Going to college? Between people? And the meanest thing that I wanted to say to you today in front of the agenda is a direct friend of ours who called the ambulance Thursday morning because he got sick and his wife got sick Friday morning. They're home with two little kids, and his wife's eight months pregnant. Do you know when the ambulance went out? An hour ago, four days later. Do you know when that's gonna be a test result? That these people don't even know what to do for four days with two little kids and a pregnant woman? ! How did she hurt the baby? ! That someone would take care of them? ! And the truth is, you know, when we got a call on Sunday at noon from this poor lady handling the case, in a dismal voice, we could put our contact together because they couldn't win, they couldn't do what they were supposed to do... with their hats in front of them, by the way. But returning to the Prime Minister's perversion to say no more: but, the Hungarian government would have had to do it in the summer, not yachting and flying around in private jets, but strengthening the epidemiological organization so that not a handful of people could get so many patients. It was the government's job to strengthen the human part of health care. And you can talk nonsense, but since January, only 300 doctors under 40 returned their papers this year, i.e. he left the Chamber according to the data of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, so he either left the country or left the system as he is, in the middle of the epidemic. And no one can point out what thousands of professionals do that they don't. They're getting mad! Obviously, the paramedics will die too! It's your responsibility to have enough cars, enough people, enough administrators. No, my fellow Members. You have chosen the solution, also with reference to national consultation, not to close the country. But in this situation, my fellow Members, disease control is the first line. It can't be days or weeks before people wander around in an infectious state. Here, in days, within 48 hours, there must be a decision, closure, quarantine. And if there's one way to do it, there should be some kind of medical advice. The terms of this, I would like to report to you with great respect, you do not provide. And today we're here in Parliament, and we hear the Fidesz proudly say, "Well, look, the parliament is working." What law are we going to negotiate today? What law will the government now bring before Parliament? To give Hungarian television another HUF 10 billion next to the other 87? I'm sorry, are you out of your mind? ! I don't know what else to ask. That HUF 10 billion is a half million free test based on their own prices. Ladies and gentlemen, Please confirm the CDC, help those hundreds of thousands who save people's lives, or tens of thousands, and do their job, not just bullshit. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-09-21-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds on behalf of the Government to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He's been talking about more than one thing, one of which is information about the coronal virus. You have seen it, and a country has seen that every day the operational tribe held a press conference during the virus epidemic, when the emergency was over, this has been suspended, but you have also seen that more and more, and since last week, regular online press conferences are being held for everyone, from beginning to end, uncut, live coverage, follow-up on Facebook, follow-up on your personal life, and here all the questions you have just raised have been raised in the past, and exactly the answers have been sought to be provided there, if necessary, several times, which is why we operate the coronavirus.gov.hu website, which is why we have a telephone number, which is why we have an e-mail address, which is why we have a centre to make sure that all the questions you have raised here, where we ask these questions, and we answer these questions. I'm asking you to keep an eye on these briefings. It's not every day that the chief of medicine at the National Officer stands out, and every question you've listed here has been answered in the last few weeks, and if you ask these questions over and over again and over again, of course, you'll answer them over and over again. I think that in providing information, everyone in Hungary could see that every day, which is just what is important, everyone can have that information. In connection with the tests, I can quote Ledia Lazeri to you as the head of the WHO in Hungary, who said that Hungary is carrying out enough coronal virus tests. According to WHO, it would be optimal if they were able to perform 10 tests in addition to each confirmed infection, and in Hungary this ratio is higher, around 30-34, so three times more tests will be carried out than required in the WHO protocol. I quote literally: what Hungary is doing is in line with the recommendations and recommendations of the WHO. We are doing what the United Nations World Health Organization recommends for countries to do in the case of testing, since a coronal virus epidemic is an important issue in all countries, which is why the UN specialized body issued this recommendation, and Hungary is following it. During the summer, in the summer months, we provided HUF 550 billion in additional resources for health care, precisely to better prepare for the autumn second wave. If we add the last few weeks, we may be able to measure the amount of HUF 600 billion that the government was able to cover all kinds of, either testing or other medical preparations. You know and you can see, Mr President, that you have criticised the government a lot, but if you look at the number of unfortunate deaths per million inhabitants, Hungary is fortunately one of the more effective defence countries. This is not due to the opposition, but it is not bad for you to know that in Hungary this number is a third as in Luxembourg or Switzerland, a quarter as in Canada, five times as in the Netherlands or Ireland, seven times as in France, nine times as in England or Spain, or twelve times as in Belgium, and most of these countries have better financial conditions than Hungary. But if you look at the proportion of infected people per 100,000 inhabitants, fortunately Hungary is among the better, say, half as much as in Turkey or Denmark, a third as in the Netherlands, Italy or Switzerland, a quarter as in Ireland or Sweden, and seven as in Spain, and eleven as in the United States of America, honourable Members. We have sought to ensure that everyone can be tested free of charge. In Hungary, anyone showing symptoms of the coronal virus or having close direct contact with a person who has been certified to be infected with a coronal virus will be tested free of charge. There are several ways to use this. Everyone can follow this process on the health digital interface, in the ESZT, perhaps it is the fastest and most accurate source of information for everyone, and the government will provide these resources to an unlimited extent in the future because, as far as necessary, all hospital needs and all other needs have been met by the government to prevent the infection from happening precisely. These results show that, fortunately, thanks to the paramedics, health care workers and everyone else, we were able to fight effectively, and we believe that if this happened in the spring, we could succeed in autumn this year. We are sorry to see that we could not count on the opposition in the spring, but we cannot count on it in the autumn. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, the leader of the group, Mr. Peter James, came to note this day. on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, fellow Members, did you get some rest? Was everything okay on the luxury plane? Did you have all the comforts on the luxurious yacht? I suppose so. In the summer, the Prime Minister's favourite private jet almost didn't stop between Budapest and the Croatian coast, so I suspect that a hundred or a few of the bravest Hungarians will be able to start stealing, lying and all of your government with sufficient rest and renewed strength. Though I might add, they won't be able to enjoy the luxury of stolen money for so long. October 11th, remember this day. On this day, we will defeat you in the Borsod interim parliamentary elections, break down two-thirds, and end your luxurious government. After ten years of vacation, you'll finally have ten years of cooling. For the past ten years, you have taken almost everything from this nation. They took away his livelihood, his health, his freedom. [[15.30]] Meanwhile, you've been acting like you've been treating this country like it's your own property. The Buda Castle is their apartment, the Balaton is their garden pool, the Hungarians are your servants. That's what the last ten years have been about. You are playing an aristocrat from a gas mechanic, dark as the night, but you are playing a bright star in the sky, because you are free to urinate, huddle, yacht with the money you took from Hungarian workers and Hungarian pensioners. The rejoinder comes on October 11th, fellow Members. There's gonna be a starfall. On that day, people will judge you, and I have a little pleasure in the judgment of the poorest county in the country, Borsod. On that day, we Borsodians will launch an avalanche that will bury once and for all that madness called Fidesz-two thirds. I know they're scared. They've had fear on their faces since the opposition joined forces. Because we joined forces at the municipal elections, and four million of our compatriots became opposition mayors. We joined forces in Dunaújváros and beat you almost two thirds. And now we've joined forces in Borsod. You give people hatred, and we give them unity, and they obviously can't do anything about it. Well, they don't even know what that word means. All they ever did was hate, but now it's too little to win. [[Dr. Bence Retvári: For Jobbik is an island of peace!]] It's not enough to buy votes here, fellow Members, and hand out dry noodles, threaten, humiliate, lie, and make independent mayors jump, no! We need something completely different, something that hasn't happened in the last ten years. It's called government performance. People don't want discrediting campaigns about all kinds of seamstresses and they'll say for sure, no, people want prosperity, decent pay and pensions, XXI. 100th century health care, free testing, free education, modern transport, liveable countryside. That is, everything you couldn't give the Hungarian nation with ten years of two-thirds behind your back. Instead, in Borsod they have fallen to the point of trying to prevent the opposition from running for parliamentary elections in Belarus, and they have failed only because the opposition cooperation was much stronger than your hatred. Yes, fellow Members, you hate the candidate of the opposition, László Bíró, and you hate him because he is not like you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Anti-Semite!]] And that's exactly why people like it, because it's one of them. He wasn't living in America, he wasn't living in Washington, he was living in Tarcal. He did not deal with foreign diplomats, but with Hungarian farmers and producers, he knows what life is like in Borsodi and knows how to make it better. You even know the Hungarian flag. I'm sorry. Well, that's a hell of a lot to do with you guys. Fellow Members, believe me that László Bíró will not be your competition here in Parliament, he will not steal, cheat, lie, if he makes a mistake, even be able to apologize. He's not like János Pócs, your fellow Member, who put a gypsy man in the boiler under threat of burning, and he laughed well that it was funny. He is not like Péter Szijjártó, who accepts 10 million yachts a day from a publicly fattened businessman. He's not like Roland Mengyi, your fellow Member, who's still sitting in prison for corruption. No! Judge László is very different from you. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Great silence...]] He doesn't want to marry, he wants to give, he doesn't want to tear down hospitals, he wants to develop, he doesn't support green harvesting, he does support vineyard management worthy of Tokaj. He doesn't want to give people aid during Takta, he wants to give people a job. I know, fellow Members, that there is a lot of pressure on you, too. Well, on October 11th, you can lose two thirds, and that's why you're afraid of the opposition. Yet I ask you to be brave. If you understand it better with Lőrinc Mészáros' broken Hungarians: be brave! [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Fight fair and lose two thirds with dignity on 11 October. Let the opposition win, László Bíró! [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-21-42	Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-21-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Now this speech proves what I was just talking about, that we are here in the fight against the epidemic, what does Jobbik do? An interim election. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] That's what he does. That's all you have to add to the fight against the epidemic. By the way, allow me to respond to both of them. As far as the fight against the epidemic is concerned, health has had to be prepared for the second wave in recent months, which is why we can say that there are now enough ventilators, there are enough hospital beds, and we have excellent specialists who are constantly threatened, day-long, and trying to discredit. As far as testing is concerned, because I can see that this is being raised, it is still being tested on the basis of the WHO protocols, and the government has also decided on the official price of PCR tests so that it can be avoided from winning tests. However, it is true that if testing is done according to protocol, there is no need to pay for it. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Lies!]] It's for those who decide on their own to ask for testing. As far as economic issues are concerned, I understand that they are sensitive to livelihoods. Many steps have been taken here, thanks to which the number of registered job seekers has been decreasing since June, which is why as many people are working in Hungary today as in January, before the outbreak. But we know that these steps are not enough, that further steps will be taken, and only one of them is what the government announced a few days ago, namely to extend the moratorium for groups in need of protection. This is about the credit moratorium, including families raising children, pensioners and unemployed people. You can be sure that further decisions will follow. Now you're referring briefly to swimming pools, I'm telling you. It wasn't us. It was your mayor in Ozdon who used his private... [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: It was you who took the swimming pool all day!]] The city swimming pool. So I wanted to respond briefly. And when you feel sorry for the country's performance, I ask you to consider the statistics, let's say how many people die per 100,000 people. In Belgium, 85, 64 in Spain, 59 in Italy, 47 in France, and less than 7 in Hungary. This shows the effectiveness of the Hungarian defence. And I am sorry that Jobbik is still a member of the left-wing choir, even during the second wave, which continuously carries out the performance of Hungarian health professionals and Hungarian health professionals. How much longer are you going to do this, Your Honour? How long are they gonna keep attacking medical personnel? And if it's the lucky choice... Their candidacy shows that although they are already wearing Gyurcsány pin in public, they are still reading kuruc.info under the benches. If they didn't, they wouldn't have nominated a bloody anti-Semite. And their new left-wing allies are listening deep in the sea. It's so quiet after the anti-Semitic statements, it's like we're in the middle of the Börzsöny. Yet, in the past, dozens of petitions and demonstrations were organised after each bushing. But the story doesn't stop here. What I don't know is how well your candidate knows Borsod. [[Peter James: Better than you!]] But I do know that the Borsodians may have met him. They must have met him. What kind of man have you nominated? A man who didn't pay off the seamstress. By giving his company tens of millions of forints to create jobs, and then the company fell for it, and they could run for their money. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Did you believe the Hungarian Nation?]] And now they're trying to deny it all. And let me tell you one more thing, if you're a lucky choice, you've been furnished with that Ferenc Gyurcsány at the time of the closing of the Lucky Sugar Factory. When you made an alliance with Ferenc Gyurcsány, did you think about them? And what will they say to their eyes? What do they say to their eyes about who they made an alliance with? On the other hand, this government has created over 60,000 new jobs in this region, which is a big difference. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sure!]] One thing is certain, with such aggressive candidates, jobs cannot be created, and it is impossible from the shadow of Ferenc Gyurcsány. You started as a national party, you started as a national party, but you became part of a left-wing pact. It is such a level of hypocrisy that a separate temporary exhibition could be opened in the House of Terror. That's the thing. Don't expect much credit from him. And by the way, if you're so sensitive socially, let us ask you one thing: ask your lucky candidate why he didn't pay off the seamstress. I'll see you back here, so we'll be waiting for an answer. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Hollik of the KDNP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda on current matters. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As it turned out from the previous speeches, our attention and the energy of the government and Fidesz-KDNP are clearly bound by the protection against the corona virus. Therefore, I would also like to thank all health care workers, doctors, paramedics and nurses for their sacrifices. Thank you so much for taking care of everyone who caught the virus. [[15.40]] Unfortunately, the virus has become part of our daily lives, but we can't go without saying that last Thursday was the 14th anniversary of the fall speech leak. It is safe to say that this year is the biggest stain on the history of our 30-year-old democracy. Ferenc Gyurcsány told his colleagues on the left that they had been elected in a lie. I quote him, he said, "We've obviously lied for the last year and a half or two." It was perfectly clear that what we were saying wasn't true. This sentence cannot be misunderstood, but Ferenc Gyurcsány has been explaining it ever since. So the Autumn speech in itself is unprecedented and outrageous, but what followed showed us what Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left he has been leading since then are really like. For 14 years ago, the people of Hungary who were rightfully outraged went out on the street. Ferenc Gyurcsány responded with a horse attack, a water cannon, a police attaché and an eye shot. As a good comrade, he did not fail to boast that he personally ordered the police. There was blood on the streets of Budapest, but it seemed in vain, because, despite all social opposition, the apparently illegitimate government, who won the election by cheating the masses and lying, did not want to face its own actions, so it did not resign. At that time and there, Hungary all learned that the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány can do anything for power, does not shy away from any means, nor does he have a conscience. Ferenc Gyurcsány played everyone, all Hungarian people, but especially those who trusted and voted for him. But he also lied to his fellow parties, for in the campaign he hid the real situation of the country even before them, but then he put them in a closed circle. In view of this, I wish Jobbik and others good luck in cooperation with Ferenc Gyurcsány. And Ferenc Gyurcsány also deceived Hungary's international partners, deceiving them with falsified budget numbers, embarrassing Hungary in front of the whole world. As a parentheses note, it was interesting to say that the rule of law procedure against Hungary was not mentioned at the time, but it is written on the basis of the usual Brussels double standard. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the autumn speech was fourteen years ago, this lesson has to be mentioned over and over again, since the left has not changed since then. We're in the middle of an epidemiological crisis, and we're finding that instead of joining forces, they're attacking the virus to gain power. Of course, the opposition would have a job to do, and it would be important to formulate criticism, especially if it was constructive, but we could not experience this from the Hungarian left during the first wave of the epidemic. We can remember that the left did not vote for the Crown Virus Act, the dialogueary Szabó Timea lied that most people died in Hungary in the world in the coronal virus, and then the MSZP Korózs Lajos shot the left-wing Kamuvideo with a fake rescuer. They have not apologized to the Hungarian people since then. But the truth is, it seems to be possible to increase that. Now, during the second wave, the Kamuvideo is followed by bogus news, scaring everyone with a missing ventilator and hospital staff. Today, we know that this news does not have any basis for reality. This seems to be the best thing the Hungarian left can do in times of crisis. That is why it is worth drawing conclusions. Although fourteen years have passed since the autumn speech leaked, the lesson remains: the left led by Gyurcsány is capable of everything for power, and we can never count on them to protect Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It has indeed been completed, the entire Hungarian left took on the Gyurcsány mask, all party presidents fulfilled their homework, which they received from Ferenc Gyurcsány. Jobbik is willing to turn its own faction into a dwarf just to exclude anyone from the party and the faction who is not necessarily willing to bow to Ferenc Gyurcsány. And at the end of last week's assembly at the MSZP, we saw that there they had reached the point of small farming that their own party members had already protested in front of their own party headquarters in relation to the renewal of their own party, because they did not agree with the party leadership, which now deals only with their own personal political survival, and is just trying to get a few seats on the Gyurcsány list for itself. This Hungarian left lied about all Hungarian economic data in the European Union fourteen years after the autumn speech, which is indeed one of the lowest points of democracy, as Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted that he lied to the voters, lied about all Hungarian economic data in the European Union, did not live with his parliamentary mandate, his governance, as he said, and lied in the morning, night and evening, and the peak of cynicism after that, not only did he not ask for forgiveness, but he was proud of himself, of his speech, who gave it to him on a CD, and proud of the police violence that followed him on the streets of Budapest, with Péter Gergényi and his companions, which led to scenes on the streets of Hungary, which many would only think that could happen in a film shoot in Budapest after the system change, when they tried to attack peaceful commemorators, conduct an attack on horsemen, throw a water cannon into the streets of peaceful commemorators. I myself have tasted the taste of tear gas once in my life, and this is thanks to Ferenc Gyurcsány and the leak of his autumn speech, and many others. Ferenc Gyurcsány is the same yesterday, today and tomorrow. Yesterday, with the Autumn speech, today, with Attila Vidnyánszky and all other people who, together with Attila Vidnyánszky, do not think like him about Hungarian statehood, Hungarian culture, he threatens to make me a runaway and then even cross the border. This is his view of democracy today, and it is no different from that of the MSZP. For ten years, we have heard nothing but that we have been taught how democracy works, and what we have seen in recent weeks is that those who disagreed within the party to submit to Gyurcsány 100 percent have simply been excluded from their own party. People in the Socialist movement have been excluded for decades, up to 30 or 40 years, and replaced by people with one or two years of internal membership in order to support a tight couple of leadership, and to make it impossible for anyone else's opinion or candidacy to be realized. But there were, I think, 36 people who had forgotten to rule out Bertalan Tóth, because so many people voted against him, he couldn't listen to everyone, and that man would be the president of the Hungarian Socialist Party again, of course, that's their problem, who sank the MSZP below the parliamentary threshold. The Kunhalmi-Tóth pair won't be able to get through the door or the door. Therefore, let Ferenc Gyurcsány take over their own party. And here I would like to talk about the whole left: from Jobbik to MSZP, it is a gathering place for politicians who do not believe in themselves, either in their own parties, and it is also the bearers of a government logic, a government principle that does not believe in the country, that the country can defend itself against the coronal virus epidemic, or that it can reduce overhead, or that it can create jobs, but always, in every case, I would like to follow the guidance and directive of other countries or of a superior body, of some union. We believe Hungary to be democratic and sovereign by trusting and consulting the Hungarian people, which we have opened up to all people who are otherwise left-wing emotional and all left-wing politicians. We regret that they snuck the arches out of the mailboxes, used this opportunity to fish data at different odd or legal limits, even though there would have been an opportunity this summer to decide together how we would prevent the spread of the epidemic. Everyone had this opportunity. It is the responsibility of left-wing politicians, because their followers consider their opinions more important than our opinions, their right-wing politicians, that they did not say that people, yes, this is such a thing now, it is a question of sending back your opinions, of holding together, but left-wing politicians encouraged left-wing voters to divide the country. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Deepen it during the coronal virus epidemic. This is the Gyurcsány heritage, this is the future of Gyurcsány. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2020-09-21-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lajos Kósa, from the Fidesz Group, also addressed our current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-49	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Listening to the contributions and group leaders of the fellow Members, especially the opposition, I had the feeling that their memory was so short that they could not even remember the previous day. Therefore, now that the crown virus is the country's main problem, and the most important problem that we have to defend ourselves against together, let me remind this House and the voters of what happened in the country at the time of the first wave. Because it was a first wave, not even the opposition denies it, so we're not there yet, and that the coronal virus is a problem, everyone accepts it. It is old Hungarian wisdom to know a friend in trouble and to find out how much he is worth in trouble. One thing is certain: the opposition contributed to the defense of the first wave with a crowd of Fake newsmen, they were busy with nothing but lies, slipping and half-information, of course, in a crowd of opposition media sympathizing with the opposition, which surprised even trained newspaper readers or news-watchers who had already seen a few things. Just a few, because it would not simply be a pre- Agenda comment, but also a full agenda for a sitting if all of them were to be recalled. Indeed, it was one of the most primitive video forgery ever made by Lajos Korózs with an interviewer who lied to himself as a paramedic. As it turns out, he's been acting like a lot of things before, and his lyrics are immediately considered suspicious by a man who's a little bit observant or a sober-minded person. So it's obvious that even in wartime conditions, they don't take patients out of the O.R. with open abdominal walls, let alone what this lady said. Lajos Korózs did not suspect this, nor did he suspect the entire opposition media. Then remember the other deeply outrageous case: Gergely Arató regretted the fact that in Hungary there are few dead in the epidemic, and said that he would prefer not to, but what to do now is this. So he wasn't praising the government, he was praising the government. Then we can remember that the opposition did not support the work of the legislation, nor the announcement of an emergency, and even spread lies about it. They didn't mind, by the way, fooling their own friends. Well, let's remember that. They lied that Parliament had stopped working. In this connection, also, the own friendly journalists have sat up to this because they have not yet learned in America that when the opposition says something, it is better to handle it with caution. Of course, they're burned with this story, but let's not forget it. As, by the way, we were urged to ask people's opinions and then, when asked, they did everything they could to put an end to the national consultation on the coronal virus epidemic. Let us not forget that everyone was opposed to taking part in the defence according to their own options, because when the government said, with the support of the Fidesz fraction and KDNP, that funding should be taken from everyone in the budget equally, so that we could use it to fight the Crown Virus, then the opposition said that it could, but not from the municipalities they led, because it was the distress of the municipalities; because they thought that they did not have to take their part in the defense. However, we can remember the performance of the municipalities they run. At the time of the first coronal virus wave, the elderly on Pest Road were not a doctor, the conditions were inadequate, and the mayor did not even go to the institution, but he made a lot of facebook about how terrible the situation was, forgetting that he was responsible. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Learn from the first wave. I would like to ask you to support the country, not the government, not the Fidesz, not the KDNP, the Hungarian people in the fight against the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the situation is quite different in dealing with the current crisis and let us remember the left-wing crisis management mode in 2008-2009. Let us remember that Hungary was then the first European country to have to take on the IMF loan. Now, a completely different economy, a budget, has been affected by the crisis starting in March 2020: a much more resilient economy with a more balanced structure, thanks to economic policy, which faced the crisis. Our budget has been stable, below the Maastricht threshold of less than 3 percent for years. Government debt was on a downward path, with a debt ratio of around 66 per cent, while the balance of payments was in a steady state, and foreign exchange debt risk was also significantly reduced. The economy was in momentum, employment was at its peak when Hungary was hit by the crisis. The country had three important tasks. The first is to provide resources, funds for defense. I think the budget has done this, the government has made the right decisions, the source has been and is now available for defence in all respects. Then we had to protect the people, the families. I refer to this as a symbolic decision: the introduction of the credit moratorium. The third is the protection of the economy, the protection of jobs and the creation of resources, instruments and the adoption by the government of the necessary decisions. We are now facing a second front, we also need to make major economic decisions, so the economic operational tribe has re-established, started to function, and its main objective must be to protect the economy and to further strengthen the economic recovery. The decisions taken at the first stage were five major decisions: preserving jobs, creating jobs, supporting priority sectors, financing companies with interest and guaranteed loans and introducing the family and pension protection programme. This has very serious results, and we have heard from Prime Minister about how many businesses, how many jobs have been saved and protected, and about 50 000 jobs have been created with new developments and investments. I think that the crisis management of the left and the crisis management of the current government are fundamentally different. The left has kept people on welfare, encouraging them, in the longer term, not to recover from the crisis through work and job creation, but, in fact, to comfort them and encourage them to be taken care of by the state. The current government focuses primarily on protecting existing jobs and, in addition to existing jobs, encouraging new investments in this crisis, in an economically difficult situation, and thus creating new jobs. [[16.00]] I also think that direct support for priority sectors will help to get out of the crisis, especially tourism, the health industry, the food industry, but also agriculture, has received direct support. The family and pension protection already mentioned is very important, as we are starting to rebuild the 13th month pension in four instalments. I think this is the right crisis management, not what the left did more than ten years ago. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I ask my fellow Members to take their seats. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-53	Dear Parliament, László Varju, DK; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Anita Potocskanyé Kőrösi, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; László Sebian-Petrovszki, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik and Bence Tordai, Dialogue.
u2020-09-21-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of a minister to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary.
u2020-09-21-55	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. Ms Éva Veresné Novák, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, was relieved of this mandate on 30 September 2020. On the basis of Article 9 (four) (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Éva Veresné Novák as Minister without a wallet with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 18 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration Law 205. Ms Éva Veresné Novák, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, was relieved of this mandate on 30 September 2020. On the basis of Article 9 (four) (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Éva Veresné Novák as Minister without a wallet with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 18 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-09-21-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the candidate for ministers has been heard and supported by the Committee on Welfare. Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I respectfully invite Minister Katalin Novák to come to the centre of the Chamber and take her oath. I would ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath. And I ask the Honourable Parliament to hear it standing up as we do. [[The people in this room stand up. Katalin Novak steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2020-09-21-57	I, Katalin Novák, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2020-09-21-58	My fellow Members, please take your seats. The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the documents for signature, and I would ask Minister Katalin Novák to sign the oath papers. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Katalin Novák and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, Let me congratulate Minister Katalin Novák on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish her success in performing her work. God bless you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the House Committee, an agreement has been reached on the proposed working schedule for the autumn 2020 session, which my fellow Members have received with the courier mail, and they have also been able to get to know on our website. I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the autumn session, which interested parties could learn through the IT network. The State Audit Office presented its recommendation to this effect, which is also available on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the mandate of the Vice-President of the State Audit Office, Mr Warvasovszky Tihamér, expired on 19 July 2020. Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, appointed Ms.Juliana Holman Magdolna as Vice-President of the State Audit Office from 20 July 2020. Allow me to thank Mr Tihamér Warvasovszky, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, for his work so far, and to congratulate Vice-President Julianna Holman Magdolna on her appointment. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent further transcripts to the Parliament. I would like to ask the notaries Dezső Szűcs and Lajos Szűcs to publish the transcripts of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notaries. [[16.10]]
u2020-09-21-59	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and Article XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure Law 60. On the basis of paragraph 1 (b) and (2) of the Act, I concluded that, in view of the resignation of Dr. Ilona Pálffy, President of the National Election Office by the Prime Minister, this mandate will be terminated with effect from 31 August 2020. Budapest, 20 August 2020 Sincerely: President János Áder
u2020-09-21-60	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and Article XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure Law 55. § 5 and Art. 60 On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Attila Mihály Nagy as President of the National Election Office for a period of nine years, with effect from 15 September 2020. Budapest, 14 September 2020 Sincerely: President János Áder
u2020-09-21-61	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of Article 2 of the Prime Minister's proposal, Dr. Szabolcs Szabolcs Ágostházy was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 18 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder
u2020-09-21-62	Thank you very much, notaries. Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank Dr. Ilona Pálffy for her work and to congratulate President Mihály Nagy and Dr. Szabolcs Imre Ágostházy, on behalf of the Parliament and myself. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Gergely Gulyás raises his hand.]] Thank you. According to the machine, 168 representatives are present and 30 are away, but there are places in the horseshoe where the ministerial transfer did not take place at the conversion of the Secretary of State. I ask the technical staff to do this to Minister Gergely Gulyás. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on proposals for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee has initiated a proposal for a derogation from house rules in relation to the rules governing the negotiation of immediate questions. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/12958. can be found on the website for all of us. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present his text. Here you go, notary.
u2020-09-21-63	The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. parliamentary decision hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ 65. On the basis of the powers of Parliament as set out in § (1) of Parliament: In view of the health crisis ordered from 18 June 2020, Parliament shall, until the beginning of the spring session of the National Assembly in 2021, if during that period, Parliament, with the vote of more than half of the Members of Parliament present, does not remove the effect of a derogation from the House Rules of Procedure of the Resolution, so that the announcement of immediate questions on the day on whose agenda or agenda the hour of immediate questions is to be held is possible not later than three hours before the opening of the first day of the sitting, not later than two hours before the opening of the second week of the sitting, before the opening of the day of the sitting; within the above time limit, the independent Member may also request that, within the framework of the immediate Question Time, he may ask questions by submitting only one such intention for the meeting day; at the hour of immediate questioning, the independent Members may ask a total of one question per meeting, taking into account the order of their questions, taking into account the date of their notification, so that a different representative from the independent Members who have notified the immediate question is present, giving preference to a representative who has not yet had an immediate question in the autumn 2020 session; the independent Member may ask his immediate question if one speaker from each political group has been given the opportunity to present an immediate question; with regard to the immediate question of the independent representative, the resolution house rule is 126. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 shall apply in so far as in the cases referred to in points (a) to (c), the question which has not been raised shall be deemed to be withdrawn and the chairman of the meeting shall give the floor to the incoming independent representative who wishes to ask the question; the Prime Minister and the Minister shall not be obliged to answer any immediate questions in person during the negotiations on immediate questions after the 60th minute.
u2020-09-21-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote now at the push of the button. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 168 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The House Committee also called for a derogation from house rules in relation to the speech before the ministerial agenda. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/12957. You can get to know it on our website. I now call on Mr Dezső Liberty to present the text of this. Here you go, notary.
u2020-09-21-65	The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. parliamentary decision hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ 65. On the basis of the powers set out in Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament shall propose to Parliament the following: Parliament shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure until the beginning of the ordinary spring session of the National Assembly in 2021 so that the Minister may speak outside the agenda in 10 minutes, the Head of the Group or the member of the Group invited by him may comment in 5 minutes, and the Minister shall be subject to a five-minute rejoinder.
u2020-09-21-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the derogation from the house rule by 170 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The House Committee has also initiated a derogation from house rules in relation to the negotiation of the series of articles. A derogation from the house rules was proposed by H/12956. My fellow Members were also able to get to know him from our website. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the text of this. Here you go, notary. [[16.20]]
u2020-09-21-67	The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. parliamentary decision hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ 65. In the light of the health crisis ordered from June 18, 2020, Parliament shall derogate from the rules of the House of Decisions so that, in proceedings in progress or following the adoption of a derogation from the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Decision, HHSZ 58. Paragraph (2), paragraphs 5 and 6 shall resume on the first day of the ordinary spring session of 2021 with the intention of the committee designated for inclusion in the series of articles and the Legislative Committee to initiate in writing the decision of the series of articles, following the submission of an application for inclusion in the series of articles, and on the basis of a written initiative by the group leader to the chairman of the committee designated for inclusion in the series of articles, the committee designated for inclusion in the series of articles, on the basis of a written initiative to the Chairman of the Legislative Committee following the submission of an application for inclusion in the series, shall decide, within 30 days of the submission of the initiative, on the inclusion in the series of a separate motion.
u2020-09-21-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote by clicking the button. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 163 votes in favour, 8 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Due to the alignment of the number of members of the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, the notaries decided on 8 June on the order of the speeches. Decision No 17/B. Under paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the order of the speeches varies from one ordinary session to the first floor of the group entitled to speak, and the other group is moved one way back. In view of the fact that the number of political groups is still in place, the KDNP Group is ahead of the Jobbik Group in the autumn 2020 session in order to address interpellation, oral and immediate questions. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP. Intercoms.]] On the basis of paragraphs 2 and 3, the order of the speeches varies from one ordinary session to the first floor of the group entitled to the last floor and the other group to another. In view of the fact that the number of political groups is still in place, the KDNP Group is ahead of the Jobbik Group in the autumn 2020 session in order to address interpellation, oral and immediate questions. (Applause in the lines of KDNP. Intercoms. ) Dear House, Let's not be frivolous. In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Committee on Sustainable Development to report to Parliament on the operation of the National Sustainable Development Council in 2013-2015, B/11383. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 117 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Committee on Sustainable Development to report to Parliament on the operation of the National Sustainable Development Council in 2016 B/11384. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 116 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Committee on Sustainable Development to report to Parliament on the operation of the National Sustainable Development Council in 2017 B/11385. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 116 votes in favour, 50 against, without abstention. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Committee for Sustainable Development to report to Parliament on the operation of the National Sustainable Development Council in 2018 B/11386. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 115 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Committee on Sustainable Development to report to Parliament on the operation of the National Sustainable Development Council in 2019, B/11387. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 117 votes in favour, 50 against, without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Committee on Agriculture, B/12882. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 119 votes in favour, 48 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the committee of appointed national cohesion B/12893. on the operation and operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund for the year 2019 for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 115 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstentions. Following a series of information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2019 and a report on the adoption of the report on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly H/10624. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/10624. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 115 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. A decision to amend Parliamentary Decision No 1 shall be taken. S/12945. put forward by the President We have all been able to get to know the proposal on the website. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szigély to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary.
u2020-09-21-69	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Point 1 of Parliamentary Decision No 1 is amended as follows. [[16.30]] Dr. László György Lukács, Jobbik, elected Róbert Dudás, Jobbik, member of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2020-09-21-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/12945. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 164 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. It is now up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy on 27 July 2020 14.B.563/2020/2. I'm a member of the Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/12955. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee met again today because of our fellow Member Ákos Hadházy. I'm saying this again because we've done this more than once in a similar case, and I also know that other such proceedings will be brought before the immunity committee in the same factual circle. At the end of a few minutes, you will understand why I brought this up, but first about the narrow facts. On 8 November 2019, Congressman Hadházy and his partner published a Facebook entry, which was considered by a private individual to be a despicable purpose, found that it was in public and caused him considerable harm, and therefore, for his insubordination, he filed a complaint against him, and so turned to Parliament in a transcript of the Pécs District Court and asked for the waiver of the Member's immunity. I mentioned it in front of the immunity committee, and I do so here in front of the Parliament, that the law on us only says that criminal proceedings against a Member of Parliament can only be brought if Parliament suspends the immunity of the Member. That is all the legislation, in this connection the immunity committee and the Parliament, I can say that they have consistently developed a practice. In short, the point of practice is that in cases of public indictment, we always issue the Member, and in cases of private indictment, we protect the Member. Yes, but here we are now dealing with a case where a representative is relatively regularly, the work of his representatives, which is clearly politically valuable work, I consider it natural to exercise this practice to cause individuals a legal disadvantage, as the indictor claims, and this individual is not a public figure. So I say to you, and I have said to my fellow Members, that when Parliament has an inspired moment, we may have professional debates on the further development of immunity, then we can approach such questions more nuancedly than we have done so far, because if at any cost, stubbornly all kinds of speeches directed against individuals, Parliament will always reward you by defending the Member at all costs, and sooner or later the Parliament will destroy its own authority. We are not here to rethink this issue, so I also thought it was important that I did not unilaterally put a motion before the immunity committee that we would want to override so far. There are so few questions between the walls of this House, in which the government side and the left think more or less the same, perhaps some immunity issues are such, and I think this is also important, so in this situation the immunity committee has followed its practice so far, and, with a majority decision, has decided not to suspend the immunity of the Member in this case. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask Mr Ákos Hadházy, if he is present, if he wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[Intercoms.]] I see that you are not present, so you do not want to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of Ákos Hadházy by 13 votes in favour, 127 against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for an interpellation or a question, these items will not be discussed. We will now continue our work by discussing immediate questions. It's 16 hours and 36 minutes. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you wish to leave the meeting room, you will first be seated at the edge of the rear sectors, and then the middle and then the front rows will leave the room at the edge of the sectors, keeping a good distance between them. I would like to remind you that H/12958 has been adopted on this day's sitting. The Prime Minister and the ministers are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the negotiations on immediate questions after 60 minutes. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Jakab and Tibor Nunkovics, right-wing Members, Mr. Group leader and Member, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. The word belongs to Mr. Peter James. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, In the last two years, we have fought countless hoops here in Parliament. I've always asked you one question, and you've always answered another. It's like we're not living in the same world. And indeed. You know, in my world, the Hungarian people want a Western standard of living, Western health care, well-being, freedom. The situation in your world is quite different. In your world, this summer we learned for Hungarians that the West is no longer attractive, but let's say the Belarusian regime is. In fact, it is my favourite thing to say earlier that we Hungarians will soon have the problem of what to do with the workers coming from Western Europe. I imagine Jürgen's eyes flashing up when he hears that Hungary can bring home up to HUF 200,000 net per month, and immediately rushes from Munich to work in Miskolc. Prime Minister, you're actually watching a different movie in your head, a story, Viktor in Wonderland, or I don't know what. Or do you really think that a Dutchman would like to try a month's minimum wage of 107,000 or a minimum pension of 28 500 forints? Do you think a Western European would like to live in a country where the government would remedy more serious diseases with ten orders and collect caps for others? Don't make me laugh. The most people who will come here are those who have heard the story of the little Hungarian gasman, who has become a billionaire by thinking himself smarter than the founder of Facebook, and who is only your friend. Prime Minister, cabaret, what you're doing with this country, and you know, the only reason we can't laugh at it is because we didn't come from Western Europe, we were born here, and there's a good chance we're gonna die here, if it's up to you, sooner than we think. Prime Minister, the story is over. Return to reality. Look at me. Can you do that? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: What is the question?]]
u2020-09-21-74	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor. [[16.40]]
u2020-09-21-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to face the challenge of answering a pointless question that makes sense. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No questions asked!]] But I'll try. I really think that the trend that has already begun will continue. If you go to several places in Hungary, you will see that many people have arrived and are coming from Western Europe. Our problem in many places, especially in smaller settlements, is that they not only arrive but purchase entire settlements. So I suggest that we prepare ourselves in thought for this situation, but not because of the standard of living, you misunderstand this, but because of the quality of life, which is more than income, including migration, the chances of Christian culture, public safety, non-terrorist life, and so on, let's be prepared for it. In fact, let us consider that it is not worth thinking more bravely about this, that, yes, there will be a large number of Christians coming to Hungary from Western Europe in our lives. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-76	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-77	Prime Minister, for the time being, I am experiencing a very large number of guest workers arriving from Ukraine and Turkey. So it's like you're still sleeping. I can tell you to wake up. Wake up, or Borsod will wake you up on October 11th, and we will explain to you in the toughest county in the country that we do not ask for the Belarusian methods, we do not ask you to list opposition activists, we do not ask you to make independent mayors jump, we do not ask for threats, we do not ask for discredit and lie. The Hungarians do not want an eastern regime, but Western prosperity, what you promised this country thirty years ago. You know, Borsod's lost almost all the time in the last 30 years. Now, on October 11th, you will win. We will defeat the two-thirds, and all Hungarians will win. Now, if you would like to read the slanders, the lies that have obviously been written for you. On October 11th, the truth will prevail over the lie. All I can say is, let the opposition win, let's go, László Bíró! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-09-21-78	A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-09-21-79	Undoubtedly, electoral law is not easy to read. But yet, if you pay little attention to this piece of legislation, you will see that you do not have any candidates in your Bors. [[James Peter intervenes. Dániel Z. Carpathian: That is not what the question was about!]] Legally speaking, they don't have a candidate. You can thank God and Ferenc Gyurcsány for doing the favor of launching the candidate in question. Otherwise, you wouldn't have a candidate. But if we have heard from you the paragraph "What is Borsod Enough of," I would also like to say to the public that the right-wing candidate of the left led a social cooperative between 14 and 16 and received HUF 50 million in support of creating jobs. The company was finally busted, the seamstress's wages weren't paid, they could run after their wages. Well, that's got to stop in Borsod. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-80	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Where does this lead? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-81	Mr. Prime Minister, In the case of tests ordered on the basis of a decision by a general practitioner, hospital or public authority, the government shall provide for free theoretically. However, if a person has returned from abroad and wishes to be exempted from quarantine, or wishes to be tested on his own accord, he can do so on the basis of an official price of HUF 19,500, of which 2500 is the cost of sampling and HUF 17,000 is the price of the test. The government sensed that the initial test prices of HUF 30-40 thousand were extremely high, placing a very heavy burden on the vast majority of the members of society. However, the introduction of an official price is not a solution in this case. This price remains high for those who want to be tested. In the present situation, however, much more testing would be needed on the one hand because there is a steep rise in the number of new infected people, and on the other hand, unlike the first wave in spring, there are no well-identifiable focal points. In this situation, those in Hungary who voluntarily undertake testing and want to check that if they feel unwell, they can test them, but they do not have the money or fear of being fired from the workplace, and we can list these anomalies, which are commonplace. We cannot ignore the fact that those who want to be tested in the form of contributions have actually already paid for these tests once. According to the calculations of health economists, free testing would not be a significant burden on public finances. Furthermore, I think, Prime Minister, that if we wanted to keep the economy running, it would be time for testing, because that would not only keep the virus under control, that is to say, all of us and the government, but we could run the economy, because we could get those people out of the workplace in time, out of the way. I ask Prime Minister, he hasn't changed his mind about free testing.
u2020-09-21-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-09-21-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Hungarian government's position on the proposal of the operational tribe is to follow the WHO protocol. This applies to testing: if a doctor or authority orders testing, it is free of charge. I would like to inform the congresswoman that we have done 580,000 tests so far, most of which were free. The meaning of testing is divided into opinions. I'm a fan of anyone who feels the need to be tested. Therefore, the profit ratio of the test was necessary to reduce, and we decided to replace the 30, sometimes 40 thousand HUF market tester with 19 500 HUF, which is a fair price. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-84	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-85	Mr. Prime Minister, The reality is that if you are a contact person and a lot of people are now unfortunately in the environment of all of us, also in my environment contact persons are immediate family members and there are no symptoms, testing is not free. Also, please consider what I said about the economy. It is in your interest and in the interests of all of us that the economy does not stop as far as possible. Testing can help you with that. Furthermore, while he did not mention that I was pro-viral in connection with me and in his reply to me, his colleagues and fellow politicians always say so, I ask that he is in favour of the virus, who does not prevent a rapid spread without specific points of focus by testing the power of the second wave, or who draws attention to the fact that it should be free. There's money for it, Prime Minister, people paid for it once before, you bought it from your tax dollars, and now you want them to pay it again, that's not fair.
u2020-09-21-86	Thank you. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-09-21-87	I agree with the basic reasoning, not the conclusion. Indeed, after paying social security contributions to people, it is very right that testing is free when the doctor or authority orders it. I think your opinion on the economy is important, but I would like to mention that in the middle of the pandemic today there are 900 thousand more people working in Hungary than you did when you were ruling. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-88	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why doesn't the government make the Crown Virus tests free?" It's an address. Congressman László Varju has the floor, please.
u2020-09-21-89	Thank you very much. Repetition is the mother of knowledge, which is why I would like to ask you, Prime Minister. But let me begin with two riddles. First of all, who said health can't be a business? And the second is: who is the Prime Minister in a country where only one can know that he has a crown virus who has 40,000 forints from his own pocket? Yes, the correct answer to both questions is that Viktor Orbán, that is, you, Prime Minister. This tells us all about how Fidesz left people at the edge of the ditch, how it got away from the Hungarians, from the country, and how the public money became a Urizing billionaire, a yacht Christian government, what you are doing. Health is a business today, and corona virus testing is also a business. It was your government that made it so. Throughout Europe, testing is slowly free, and European states explicitly encourage people to take the free test. You have the nerve to tell them to pay 40,000 for two tests. May I remind you of what Chancellor Gergely Gulyás said earlier about the official priced virus tests? [[16.50]] He said they wouldn't cost more than 6 to 8,000 forints, they wouldn't be overpriced four to five times. Then it follows that, according to their current pricing, this is now only overpriced twice or three times. So I ask you, where is the money that we Hungarians have already paid to the state register for a health contribution, if they do not now know about the corona virus testing for everyone who needs it and asks for it to be free. So now I ask you with respect, Prime Minister, to give the people what they deserve, to have a chance to test it free of charge. I look forward to your reply, thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-09-21-90	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-09-21-91	It's hard. I'll try to tell you my own logic. So if testing is not to be a business, then the official price must be introduced. That's why we brought him in. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-92	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varju, please.
u2020-09-21-93	Thank you very much. Although it is easy to conclude, Prime Minister, that what you are doing is precisely what you encourage entrepreneurs to do, who are now receiving a secure market from you, sending people there, and paying at least 40,000 forints to each family. And then we didn't talk about the dad, the mom, the kids, because it could cost a family 100,000 forints. The problem is, Prime Minister, that people have already paid the price, and now you want to have it paid once more, many times in a row. In an unprecedented way, the government is detracting more than a third of the salaries by way of some kind of contributions, and you are using it, and now you are making people pay for this test again. Mr. Prime Minister, Where's the money we paid for this and why aren't they testing us with that money? Why do they do it differently, why are they making families pay for it? [[Noise and clarity from the benches of the governing parties. Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-09-21-94	Thank you. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-09-21-95	God knows my soul, I've tried [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] But if I can't, I can't. Let's try another way. After all, you worked in a socialist government. Let's see what they've done. They took a month's pension from people; they raised the retirement age; they took a month's wages from public administration workers and teachers; they reduced the duration of the child; they wanted to introduce the property tax; they raised the corporate tax; they raised the VAT; they tripled the price of gas, twice the price of electricity. As far as health is concerned, instead of free access, a visit fee and hospital daily allowance were introduced. And now you're going to hold me accountable for the government's price? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-96	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, please.
u2020-09-21-97	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Today, at the beginning of today, in my comment on your exposé, I asked you a number of specific questions that I didn't get an answer to. Now I'm gonna repeat some of them. I hope you don't mind, and I trust I'll get an answer now. My first question, or our proposal, was that we needed a crisis management programme. You, I think, have described very well what serious health consequences, situations are expected, up to 400,000 people may become infected. Obviously, dealing with this problem requires a lot of money on the one hand and a lot of serious measures on the other. We also know that there are problems with the economy. As a result of the first wave, GDP decreased by 13.5 percent. The second wave, we know it's much more serious. It is true that you say that we will not stop the economy now, but we do not know what will happen next. So our assessment is that, in parallel with the preparation of a supplementary budget, such a crisis management programme would be necessary. And I have asked four specific questions, which we would very much like you to include as part of this. My question is to consider reducing the 27 percent, indeed world-high VAT on basic foods to 5 percent. My second question is that sooner or later social workers will receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000. The third question is whether you are ready to increase unemployment benefit from 3 months to 9 months and to improve the situation of pensioners immediately and quickly.
u2020-09-21-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister, even though that was at least four questions.
u2020-09-21-99	Question, honourable Member. Health mathematicians and medical professors say that 200,000 concurrent diseases are the peaks of running the virus in Hungary. The right thing to do is to count twice that, that's enough security. For this 200,000 co-infected, we need 16,000 beds; if we count 400,000, we need 32,000 beds, and today we have 66,000 beds. We have a management plan, so I say with good conscience, calmly, calmly, because defense requires calmness and calmness that we are prepared for, the country is prepared to defend itself. It is clear from the national consultation that people want the economy not to be stopped in defence, so we will defend ourselves without having to stop the economy. There is no need to change the budget now, because wisely, when the budget was first faced with the epidemic, we created it in a framework that creates an epidemiological and economic protection fund that gives us quite a margin of manoeuvre. If we get past this, we'll come back to the House, but I'm not counting on that. Some of the basic foods have VAT at 5%, and we will keep it. Pensioners can count on inflation to correct pensions based on their consumption baskets; and the 13th month pension that your allies have taken away, we will start from 1 January. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-100	Thank you, Prime Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go. [[Your microphone to the director's representative:]] Feel free to put it on, Congresswoman.
u2020-09-21-101	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, people are struggling with very serious daily living problems. Wherever we go, for example, we meet people on a crossroads, this is the problem, the prices are really running away. I don't know, Prime Minister sometimes goes to the market, but if you go to the market or go to the store, you can see that for example, the price of the apple Hungary was a country producing apples, it was over HUF 1000. A lot of people don't get healthy food, and they have the right amount of basic food on their table. This needs to be changed. Otherwise, we have a different view of dealing with the situation of the elderly. There was a 2.8 percent increase at the beginning of the year. Since then, inflation has been over 4 percent, and it's still running up. The government's been using the pensioners' money for free all year, and that's not allowed! So if there's a difference of more than 1 per cent, you'd have to do it right away, for example, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] raising pensions. There's a lot of trouble.
u2020-09-21-102	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Prime Minister, please.
u2020-09-21-103	I've been waiting a long time for a opposition vote to lie against the ruling party, and now I've finally got this! We're gonna do exactly what you want us to do, so we're gonna see what inflation is. If the increase in pensions was less than inflation, then at the end of the year we will raise it back by adding interest for the difference that has been identified. Accurate accounting, long friendship. As for wages, there could always be more, and not much that is now, but at the time of your allies... [[Erzsébet Schmuck will spread his arms.]] You have to bend down for the change, you know, so I'll always tell you that. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] So the thing is, at the time of your allies, [[Erzsébet Schmuck will spread his arms again.]] the average wage was 198 thousand forints, and now 400,000 forints. Please appreciate that. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-104	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When will testing be free? It's an address. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: Oh! The president's ringing the bell.]] Fellow Members! Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor, please.
u2020-09-21-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know what's funny about the opposition demanding free testing for people in need, why the Fidesz MEPs are laughing at this. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.00]] Prime Minister, you said in the Parliament this spring that there is no upper barrier to the control of the epidemic. Then I don't understand why they're spending money on free testing. We agree that the primary objective is to preserve health, prevent deaths, prevent diseases, and avoid economic cessation. Prime Minister, what do you think is cheaper: to test them in bulk, and to prevent them from developing focal points, whether in economic cities, Esztergom, Szentgotthárd, Győr or Budapest, to prevent the virus from spreading or shutting down the economy? I'm pretty sure it's cheaper to test you in bulk. Mr. Prime Minister, We were the first ones here to tell everyone to wear masks because it protects them against the virus. You guys wiped it off, said it wasn't necessary to wear a mask. Your doctor told me not to wear a mask to a healthy person. Now everyone wears the mask, now they've accepted it, they realize it's really an effective method. Earlier, we emphasized that spatial data is also being made public, we know where, how many diseases there are per county. It was also swept off the table at first, they said it was unnecessary. Now they're gonna go public, they're gonna admit they're wrong. Earlier, we said we had to test it. They still said the test was unnecessary and that they were following WHO protocol. Well, it's certainly not protocol to wait six to seven days until the test comes, that's for sure not in the protocol. Now we demand a free test. Be kind to consider how we can prevent this virus from spreading. My question is, when will the test be free for every citizen? Thank you very much. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2020-09-21-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2020-09-21-107	Thank you for the proposals that aim to prevent the development of stumps, but I would like to say that there are not bumps, but mass infections. This is another case. We will continue the test practice recommended by the WHO, and if ordered by a doctor or authority, the test will be free of charge. Speaking of money, your party president runs Budapest, where more than HUF 100 billion is available as free use. I look at London, Prague, Vienna, everywhere the cities help tourist businesses with their own budgets, Budapest is the only exception, although that is not entirely true. At first I thought I heard badly, but then it turned out that I didn't, because you help the tourist industry in Budapest by setting up three new insect hotels. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Now there are five insect hotels in Budapest. Congratulations. Insects are important, and insects are important, but perhaps the order should be more fortunate. So I suggest you contact the mayor's party president. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-108	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-109	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, while you do not support the needy, you are expected to pay for this expensive test. For a family of four, this can be twice 80,000 forints, 160,000 forints. They refuse to extend the three-month unemployment allowance, but they pay for the expensive test. Pay supplements for those who have lost their pay or who lose their jobs have been minimized, but they should still pay for the expensive test. In tourism, catering workers, film workers are abandoned, but they pay for the expensive test. The dialogue's basic income proposal is being swept off the table, but people should pay for the expensive test. I know you're trying to divert attention from the free test here, but I would like to draw your attention to it, if you're going with Paris, Vienna, and I don't know what cities you're setting up, the Prime Minister hasn't taken billions of dollars of funding from that city just to secure his own power. They'll give that money back to Budapest, and then Budapest will certainly be better able to defend itself against the epidemic, unlike you. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the dialogue, DK.]]
u2020-09-21-110	The Prime Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-09-21-111	I understand that there's never enough money [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] and that the richest city in the country would like to receive more money, but here are representatives from other cities and settlements, who do not have this amount at all. So if you have to make a decision, against the insect hotel order, here you will first receive support for the needy, and only after that for the rich, this is the right procedure. And in the case of testing, it seems that if someone feels that there is a problem, they go to the GP, the GP orders the test, and they don't have to pay. That's the way I recommend it to everyone. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-112	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. [[That's a shame. That's too bad.]] Honourable Parliament! Congressman József Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári has given the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Congressman József Kovács has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-21-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the first wave of the epidemic, Hungary successfully defended itself, and the virus disappeared almost completely in the country. As a result, we were able to ease the restrictions in the summer, but in the autumn, the epidemic has resurfaced, and we are now at the beginning of the second wave, which is expected to peak in December-January. In the spring, we defended ourselves against an unknown enemy, and we were expecting the second wave, so we're ahead of the virus, and now we know more, we're better prepared. Unfortunately, however, there is still no mass-use vaccine. The virus must be taken seriously. We have to learn to live with the epidemic, while the country has to work. This will not be a small task for the government or the Hungarian people. In these difficult times, national cooperation is needed, and all Hungarians know it. Instead of the malicious panic of opposition parties, the instructions, government recommendations, should be followed in a disciplined manner. The national consultation was signed by 1 million 800,000 people, sent out and gave their opinion on the coronal virus epidemic. Since the beginning of the epidemic, the left has been proving day after day that they cannot be expected. They're attacking us, they're attacking security measures, they're not even willing to vote for financial resources. In fact, the purpose of their activities is to mislead people with unfounded false news and gain political benefits. We're being slandered abroad, they're making fake news, fake news. A few days ago, for example, I was alarmed by the left by the fact that there were insufficient ventilators and insufficient staff, based on a false press report. Defensive control is very hard work. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the number of patients with the coronary virus is increasing now, and what new measures the government is preparing, what will be different from in the spring. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-21-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the first wave, we could indeed experience that Hungarians cannot count on the Hungarian opposition, and here in Parliament they did not vote for anything that was important for defence, let us say that we should prolong the emergency and thus create the legal possibilities for defence in the longer term, and that they could not count on the left to give real news. There was a flood of Kamuvideos and false news about what the opposition mentioned in connection with Athina Németh, here in Parliament in front of Timea Szabó, in front of the rescue service headquarters Lajos Korózs, and they all turned out to be false news. But we can also talk about the fact that they even denied the functioning of Parliament, when they came to Parliament from week to week. It is very important to comply with the current measures to prevent viruses, because this is how we can protect jobs and protect the functioning of schools. As is well-known, the use of the mask is now mandatory in shops, public transport, cinemas, theatres, health and social institutions, customer reception offices, entertainment places must be closed at 23:00, and entry restrictions continue to apply, since both in the first wave and in the second wave, the corona virus was imported from abroad, arriving in Hungary through our borders, and therefore we must maintain this protection. Hospitals tend patients who need hospital treatment according to a very well - developed plan. [[17.10]] After all, it is first concentrated, in some institutions, and if there are many more patients, it is determined step by step, in what amount, in what number, after which hospitals additional hospitals enter with additional beds, and where, and how, health care workers who provide care for patients with coronal viruses can be directed. This is why the present attitude of the opposition is very dangerous, because they are trying to attack the effectiveness of defence, but the Hungarian people showed it this spring [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That we were able to defend ourselves successfully against the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-21-117	Thank you for the floor. After a few minutes earlier, I'm trying to compensate for that in rejoinder. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Defensive control is very hard work, I can see that from a close range. It is very important that both the government and the health government and health care receive all the support and everyone tries to avoid baseless attacks. In addition to protecting human lives, the economy, the country, must be kept operational. For my part, in rejoinder, I would very much like to thank everyone, the operational tribe, the health workers and everyone who has done this during the spring period, for their sacrifice. We expect the same in the future, for which we will give all our own help. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2020-09-21-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State, please, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-09-21-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Here is the autumn, the flu season is approaching, it was a very important decision of the government, precisely to avoid serious complications or to eliminate a very important risk for those at increased risk in relation to the weakening of the immune system, so the government has not only freed influenza vaccination for former high-risk target groups, but also for all Hungarians this year, so anyone who wants to give it to themselves is not only the elderly, not only health care workers or educators, but it is free for everyone. This was a very important step for the government, since we are much more armed, our body is much better equipped to resist the coronal virus if the flu does not weaken it. And, of course, it is not possible to repeat enough that coronal virus testing is also absolutely free for everyone who is referred to by the GP or the hospital or the epidemiological authority because it considers it justified to test it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å Can schools prepare for the mandatory body temperature measurement that will be introduced on 1 October? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, was entitled to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally. [[On the signal of László Szászfalvi:]] Thank you, I see that the Member indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman László Szászfalvi will take the floor.
u2020-09-21-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The fight against the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic has been successfully fought. According to international analyses, Hungary is one of the world's 25 most defensive countries. The success of the defense must be measured in human lives; in comparison, in Sweden with a similar number of souls, ten times as many people died as in our country. After the first wave, our country did not escape the second wave of the virus, against which, of course, we must continue to defend ourselves. The use of masks in public transport, shops, cinemas, theatres, health and social institutions as well as customer betting offices remains essential. The full visit ban in hospitals and nursing homes will continue and entry restrictions will remain at our borders. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 September, the school started with a traditional working order, but with strict security measures, almost 6,000 public education institutions at more than 13,000 job provision sites. The kindergartens and schools follow the safety recommendations, and the Ministry of Human Resources, the Education Office, with the cooperation of the Official Medical Service, continuously monitors the epidemiological processes. Last week, the government decided that mandatory body temperature measurements would be introduced from 1 October in order to prevent the spread of the virus in schools. On the basis of the above, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: can schools and public education institutions prepare for the mandatory body temperature measurement that will be introduced on 1 October? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, During the epidemic, there is a completely different order of life in schools. In the spring, we saw that education, public education, had completely stopped. We would like this to not happen in the current period, so we are trying to move where the virus appears and to continue education and education in the other institutions. This requires a personal encounter. It's not the same digital education as personal education. Personal presence is required to enable the school to fulfil its full function, and it is also important for parents that most parents probably run out of freedom, so that they can place their children during the day in kindergarten, in kindergarten, in kindergarten, there to supervise them, receive free meals for those who need them, and continue their educational activities. We remember the attitude of the opposition this spring. If we had listened to them, more than 80,000 students wouldn't have a graduation today, or PDSZ and other organizations would have demanded this, but then we were able to prove that we could keep the graduation safely in Hungary. There was no epidemiology after that. With regard to thermometers and body temperature measurements at school, the entire opposition was in a position like this here, Ágnes Kunhalmi, who demanded and opposed within 60 seconds, considered the body temperature test at the school gate to be more of a pretense measure; this 60 seconds shows the state of the entire opposition. But nothing else was done by the PDSZ, which demanded it in August, and after the government announced that it would introduce body temperature measurements at the school gates, it called it a mood-enhancing fake measure, a pretend action. This also shows the lack of seriousness of the opposition. However, we are preparing to give these to the institutions through government offices by the end of the month. By the way, we obviously know a lot of institutions personally. In some cases, this is already a daily practice, but from 1 October, it will also function uniformly in all schools, in all kindergartens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-09-21-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I also thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I think that this measure will further strengthen the security of our schools, and I thank, of course, the people working in public education institutions for their work, who have done their best and are doing their best to ensure that our institutions operate in safe conditions. For us, the most important thing is that Hungary operates in the second wave of the epidemic, and the basic condition of this is that schools and our public education institutions can function safely, so we must and will do everything we can and will do to create and maintain safety and conditions in our institutions. This will be a huge task, but we must be able to meet this challenge. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, During the summer, in order for all schools and kindergartens to be able to prepare, public education institutions received a detailed recommendation on how to prepare for the autumn, so there was an opportunity to prepare for distance and other rules. It is important that where the virus is detected, we defend ourselves against it, where there is no virus where it has not appeared, and therefore there is no need to introduce any restrictive measures in the autumn. If we look at the state of the moment, we see that 0.67% of kindergartens had to make an extraordinary break, and 0.19 percent of schools had to take such measures. About 5 percent of schools have a class that has changed to digital work order and 0.29 percent of schools have assigned digital work schedules to the entire institution. [[17.20]] So it is obvious that they are constantly being examined, that decisions are being made, but in this way, in the overwhelming majority of schools, educational work can continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, withdrew his immediate question. Accordingly, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Honourable Members of the Council and Honourable Mr Tamás Csányi, Minister, because of your absence, you have authorized Secretary Bence Rétvári to answer. I respectfully ask that you accept the person of the responding person or ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-09-21-129	I'd be happy to talk to Mr. Secretary of State, but we'd like to wait for Minister, thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-21-130	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Congressman, and the Parliament, that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Do you have to escape from here? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister, for your absence, you have appointed Secretary of State Miklós Soltész to answer. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You've had ten years and two thirds to prove yourself. They should also prove themselves in difficult terrains such as Borsod, and especially on such complexly disadvantaged peripheries as some of which are found there. In an interview in 2015, Attila Lakatos named the gypsy river Taktaköz in Borsodi as the area where we can then face all problems, and here are the most serious problems. It's been five years since then, and the problems haven't changed. I dare say that in recent times, I have spent more time there, like my better fellow Members, talking to the people who live there about their real problems than you have brought me home from America, and not too many lives-- and his job-experienced candidate, whose mother, what a coincidence, is the head of one of the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros, which is growing from billions of public funds. You know what a lot of people there say in these areas? It means you gotta get out of here. They say, unfortunately, many of the people who live there. The feeling of falling out of the world will strike the wandering traveler in the chest. The thing is, on the road between roads, if that's what you can call an abomination, it's a good thing to take out a helicopter, because orange gentlemen may not be able to walk it by car. Ruined houses and palpable extreme poverty. The loan shark, the Socpol, and the executor's mafia. However, we do not want to make an alliance with them, with those who steer the people who live there and deliver the required number of votes with promises, threats and addressed packages, but with those honest people and I would add, we also want to make an alliance there, regardless of origin. [[Lárinc Nacsa: László Bíró doesn't think so!]] Those who want to live there and earn decent wages from decent work. I look forward to your reply on what will happen to these regions, Mr Secretary of State. Don't you miss the public money from there? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-21-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[There's no sound.]] I don't know, the Secretary-General machine's been reset. I'd like the technical staff to help you with that so you can get a word to the Secretary of State. [[It's happening.]] Thank you.
u2020-09-21-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'll try to calm down Congressman. When you ask if you need to flee from here, you are actually recalling a deep Jobbik crisis in that you were the most anti-Gypsy, anti-Semitic party on one side for decades, and now you are trying to cover all this up by teaming up with the left, so you are already a left-wing party as a far-right party, and you are launching a man, by the way, together with the left-wing parties, whose past and not only his past, but also his revelations are a little bit in doubt. His anti-Semitic statements, when he mentions Budapest as Judapest. When he says things about how much he hates people who go by his house, referring to people or representatives of the Jews who visit that area. And the same is true of the anti-Gypsy manifestation, and all the other things that your candidate is asking. So, in fact, you're welcome to ask him to run away from here and ask his candidate whether he thinks so or not. We know it's like this. However, when you are asking about Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén's economic and social situation, that you must flee, I would ask you that you have now acquired coalition partners, under whose management schools have been closed, under whose administration aid has been allocated instead of work, whose management has been a gas price, electricity price, and everything else. After all, I'd rather look in the mirror if I were you, but I know they'll never do that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2020-09-21-135	I understand that they fear for two thirds of them, and they fear for this system of corruption, intimidation and feudalism. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Which, on October 11th, will certainly get a huge stomach through the victory of László Bíró. The thing is, about what I suggested, he didn't have a word. László Bíró is constantly being attacked instead of sweeping the case of János Pócs on their own doorstep. However, Mr State Secretary, I also came from a rural region where there has been a greater decline in population over the past ten years than in Hungary in the second century. During World War II. Ten percent reduction in population compared to seven percent. On the other hand, you have nothing to say about the fact that these rural crisis regions lack a lot of public money in bulk. That's what I wanted to know, because the people of Borsodi and the people of Somogy and the people of these rural slums feel like they're missing all that money from there, which goes on a luxurious yacht and what the hell knows. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-21-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Miklós Soltesz, Secretary of State, and Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, I would like to ask you not to interrupt.
u2020-09-21-137	People say that people who yell like that are afraid to be alone. I don't know what the honourable Member is afraid of. You may be afraid of the shame that your candidate, by the way, as a left-wing candidate, was a right-wing man, or perhaps still doesn't pay off people with the most unfortunate fates who would otherwise have received the support, since he, as a company manager, or indirectly received the support, but didn't pay off the poorest people. By the way, once again, you've been in Parliament with a loud voice for four to five years, scolding DK, Ferenc Gyurcsány, MSZP, everyone. Now these are the people they're putting together, cuddling with. Your policy is clear, only the power, only the money and nothing else, and while they did not vote for the reduction of the rent, they did not vote for job creation, they did not vote for the increases in social and health support that have actually done a lot for the region, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, in the last ten years. There's no need to make any noise from now on, Mr. Congressman. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. [[17 .30]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély nods.]] Thank you, I do not have to go through with the text, and Mrs President, Mrs President, points out that she accepts Mr Bence Rétvári as a replyer. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, During today, Viktor Orbán and you have said several times that the Crown Virus has been introduced from abroad in the summer, and that is why we maintain the border lock and strict entry restrictions. That's confirmed by both of them. In fact, Viktor Orbán told us today about a truly amazing epidemiological situation, what he expects to do, how bad the situation will be, predicting up to 400,000 viral diseases. The only thing that has not been said today is that the Super Cup will be held in Hungary on Thursday the 24th, with thousands of foreign fans allowed into the arena and 14,000 Hungarian fans will be allowed into the stadium. It is true that already the coach of Bayern said that this is something you don't fully understand, but we don't make the decisions, but others do. The Bavarian Prime Minister is just pissed off today's news. I'd like to read a statement. According to UEFA's own declaration, this event is needed to test, among other things, the health effects of the return of fans. The protocol to be tested includes several batch health provisions, from testing to processing the results of the tests to the treatment of symptoms on the spot. So they've admitted that they're using 20,000 fans as guinea pigs to come to this game. The 1997 Health Act regulates very strictly how human medicine research can be carried out. Müller Cecília may grant permission to do so, and the chairman of the Scientific and Research Ethics Committee of the Scientific Council of Health in exceptional cases. Secretary of State, did you get permission to experiment on the 24th Super Cup? Did Müller Cecília or chairman of the Scientific and Research Ethical Committee give you permission? I'd like to know how you got that license, and if you get that license, you're gonna take responsibility if there's gonna be a massive illness at the game. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-09-21-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-21-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The left could not be expected at any moment of defence in Hungary from the outbreak of the epidemic. When decisions had to be taken here in Parliament, you did not support any of our proposals, you did not support the adoption of the Crown Virus Act, when it was a national consultation, people were encouraged not to be part of the common defence, not to express their views. And then your fellow Members, either Lajos Korózs or Lajos Korózs, and then your fellow Members gathered false news with Athina Németh or with HUF 500,000 of health benefits per person and much more. They never helped to protect people better. We can remember that only the opposition was your voice in everything. I have already mentioned here that even in relation to body temperature measurement in schools, they demand that when the government decides to do so, then they say that this is a pretend measure. During graduation, they also tried to cause panic among the parents. But the graduation was also managed in Hungary, following the protection measures, the well-defined, completely pure and professional protection measures, after which there were no mass diseases as a result of the graduation, there was no focal point in Hungary. We strive to ensure that everyone adheres to the strictest possible protection measures in the context of this event. Obviously, if there are signs of any disease, there is no way to go to this school or any other community or kindergarten. You can see that almost everywhere you enter in a closed space, even here in Parliament, when we came in, there was a body temperature test, which is why we are trying to protect everyone's physical integrity and health, and that is why there are innumerable safety measures for disinfection and prevention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-143	I asked you a simple question, Mr. Secretary, did you get permission for research, human trials or not? Did Muller Cecilia give you permission or not? He didn't answer. All these two minutes, he was talking about something else. Then I'd like to quote you to the Btk. 171. And I hope that 132 brave men will be very well aware of this:. Anyone who does medical research on a human without a permit or otherwise than a permit will be punished for a crime of one to five years in prison. Mr. Secretary, five years for all of you if there's a massive outbreak after the game. And, Mr. Secretary, everyone is already afraid of this match, and you are releasing the virus to Budapest and then to Hungary by assisting in this. And you come into Parliament and say that you want to protect the Hungarian people? ! Secretary of State, a year to five years if you didn't give me permission to do this. I very much hope that at least this legislation has been complied with. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-09-21-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Please also turn the part of the Btk. that tells you that if someone, say, is spreading rumors at the scene of public danger, then it's the Btk. what additional provisions are included. [[Antal Csárdi: Are you threatening me?]] Because you've been dealing with nothing else since the outbreak, you don't deal with anything else, you spread rumors, you spread fake news, you make fake news, or you make fake paramedics in Parliament, instead of trying to act normal in this one case, this decade, between 2010 and 2020 in this one case, you're going to be able to step out of the field of daily political give-and-take. In countries with much more shared ethnic or other relations, opposition representatives have been able to do so and not report their own country abroad, on the basis of all kinds of forums, on the basis of untruths, and thus trying to harm their own country. However, you should also see this, and I think that, although Mr Arató may not be pleased with this, you may still be glad that Hungary is among the most defensive countries in the world, because we have taken defensive measures in time, and many of us have joined together on this. [[Zoltán Balczó: We would like to take our turn, Mr Secretary of State.]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 5:38, so now we're two minutes past the first hour of immediate questioning. I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the Minister are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the debate on immediate questions after the 60th minute. [[Gergely Harvester: It's not in it, it's not in it!]] And I would also like to inform you that if the Member does not ask the question, his immediate question must be deemed withdrawn in accordance with the Parliament's adopted decision. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Arató, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Did the Minister of State of the Ministry win the OTKA contest? It's an address. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer you on the basis of the Minister's authority. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-147	Dear House, Let me begin by saying that I find it quite shocking that Secretary of State Rétvári is already threatening opposition representatives with criminal responsibility for asking questions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They spread rumors!]] I would like to say to you that it will not deter us, and I will, of course, ask my question as planned. But I think it's amazing, it's just your buddies in Belarus and Turkey. [[17.40]] Now, Mr. Secretary of State, let us move on to a very pleasant question, too. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] We know that the entire Hungarian scientific world is outraged by the fact that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology overruled the OTKA applications, stepped on the professional evaluation and made a political decision on scientific proposals. [[Dr. Bence Retvári: Tear gas Democrat.]] However, there is one detail of this case that is even more juicy than before. Among the proposals announced by the Ministry as a winner, the leader of the winning research team is called a State Secretary of the Ministry. On Thursday, we asked the Ministry whether it was a coincidence or not. I'm afraid they didn't answer, so I'm gonna ask you here. Is Anita Boros, who is among the winning candidates, the same Boros Anitae, who is the State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology for Construction, Infrastructure and Sustainability, or is it just a name identity? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Is the research group led by the Secretary of State of the Ministry really receiving nearly HUF 36 million from its own ministry, from its workplace? And do we also expect an answer: did they rewrite the OTKA applications in order to bring their own Secretary of State out victorious? I ask you to answer these three questions directly, openly and clearly.
u2020-09-21-148	Thank you very much. Mr János Schanda, State Secretary, answers the immediate question.
u2020-09-21-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Areas of the MTA that are not directly competitive should be made equal to the ground because they produce only dusty documents. The problem with Hungarian scientists is that those who are decisive or created something permanent are no longer alive. Do you remember these sentences, Congressman? Do you remember him? I help: János Kóka, Minister of Economic Affairs of the Gyurcsány government said this about Hungarian scientific life. Do you remember when Ferenc Gyurcsány wanted to make not only science but also Hungarian democracy, free Hungarian people, equal to Hungarian soil? This is your governance, this is your community, this is your true opinion of science and the freedom of science. Honourable Congressman, The government's determined goal, and we have repeatedly said this, is to achieve more research with more money. This was not supported either by you, your party, or by the entire left when you had the opportunity to do so. With the establishment of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the Ministry dedicated to innovation and science policy was established for the first time in our history, and this shows our commitment. Honourable Congressman, The application you referred to has nothing to do with what you just said. Indeed, for some of the applications, and this has been said from the very first moment, there have been some changes in the proposals made by the jury because of the scientific aspects. This is the right and opportunity of the decision-maker at all times, since the committee only makes proposals. What you're referring to is a proposal from a completely different frame. I'll continue from here in the rejoinder. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-150	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-151	Dear Secretary of State, Minister János Kóka then had to apologize for his statement, and we look forward to your apology for this answer, and we also look forward to Mr. Minister's apology for all that he has done to Hungarian science in recent years. At the same time, I understand you didn't answer the question. He may try in the second round when he can no longer be answered in return. Unfortunately, at first glance, it seems that you are spreading public funds for scientific purposes in a corrupt, incompatible and politically driven way. In particular, because we do not know from professional circles that it is true that, by the way, the two professional critics did not support the State Secretary's proposal. But you can easily disprove that, and I ask you to answer that, to publish the tender and the criticisms of the tender, and then we will be able to decide whether this suspicion is reasonable or not, but until you do, we believe that you will provide your own staff with the public funds for science.
u2020-09-21-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'll pick up where I left off. We are proud that a State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, a state leader, has an important scientific experience in addition to the administration, and is also engaged in his scientific activities during the term of office of state leadership. And once again, it is not possible for you to repeat that we did not support the application by the secretary of state, the research group in which she is participating, but we did support it, because it is an important research that is needed and we are proud to be conducting scientific activities in Hungary by state leaders, not by declaring the world of science as I have just told you. Secretary of State Anita Boros, let's make this clear, we've made it public in the press, she's applied for a research group for her research fee. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] and has resigned from his position as Head of Research, so there is no conflict of interest in any way, and he has offered his research fee to young researchers of the research group. This is an exemplary activity, not to attack, but to help the work of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congressman Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Are we living in the century? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence, so if you say the immediate question, he will answer that question. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-155	Dear House, As I recall, we have modified the house rule as a non-revocational question on the question with which I would like to wait for Minister's reply.
u2020-09-21-156	Thank you very much. I can only refer to the script and the resolution adopted, that in this case, since you did not ask the question, your immediate question must be deemed withdrawn by the Parliament's adopted decision. However, as a courtesy to you, I call again. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "When will the VAT on basic foods be reduced? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply, so if you ask your question, he will answer that question. Otherwise, you have the floor.
u2020-09-21-157	Dear House, Mr President, Thank you very much. We all know that the economic situation caused by the corona virus has created a very difficult situation not only for the country but also for all of us and for the working people. We see that tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of families today have difficulty buying basic foods such as vegetables and fruit. In one year, fruit prices increased by more than 40 percent on average, while vegetable prices increased by around 17 percent in one year. We see that the VAT law is infinitely unfair. Today, if you go to a restaurant, you'll have to pay a fifth of the VAT, like the one who buys groceries in the market. Today, a person who goes on a holiday to Lake Balaton has to pay a fifth of the VAT, as if to go and buy himself rice or any other fruit. I think that it is the right of all of us, of all citizens living here, and the responsibility of the government to make available the basic foods that today pay 27 percent, which is why it is unavailable to the majority of people. [[17.50]] Since this debate has been going on between us for a relatively long time, I suspect that you will be trying to explain to me, Mr Secretary, that some basic food VAT has already been reduced over the past period, but in such a way. Mr Secretary, if you would like to argue that, I would like to ask you when you took home a half-pig when you bought, whose VAT was initially reduced to 5%. My respectful question is when do they realize that society's legitimate need is to reduce its overall turnover tax on basic foods. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-21-158	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, for the third time on the part of the LMP, the question of VAT reductions is being raised. It was very interesting to speak again, because the Member did not say what kind of products or basic foods he wanted to reduce, because here is the situation: the VAT on pigmeat is 5%, the VAT on fish meat is 5%, the VAT on poultry meat is 5%, the VAT on eggs is 5%, all kinds of milk, fresh milk, VAT on other milk, 5%. There is only one problem: every year, the government reduced the VAT on food; yes, this includes the VAT on food consumed in catering places, because it must also be produced, sold, and it must obviously be made available to catering establishments. There is only one problem with that, Mr President: since you have said the same question once again, and I am going to ask you again what your problem was. From 2014 onwards, none of the VAT reductions were voted out; they did not vote in favour, they abstained at most, but they did not press yes once. And when you're in the middle of this virus right now, in the middle of the economic crisis, where the government and the whole country are struggling to survive this crisis, I'm talking about an economic crisis now, so that people can keep their jobs, their income, I think it's an important issue, but if you'll allow me, Congressman, that's not the most important thing right now. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-21-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. The fact is, based on various lobbying interests, you have randomly selected products that are otherwise classified under a reduced VAT rate. We are, and are, representing the need to include all basic foods under a reduced VAT rate. If the government is struggling with an economic crisis, then start with the VAT reduction, as the Germans have done, because the Fidesz government has not reduced its VAT to carrots, grapes, apples, rice, sugar, flour, plums. I think I might have a long list, but it won't fit into my one-minute rejoinder time. So don't be cynical, Mr. Secretary. Answer the question, because it's bound by law. When will the VAT on all basic foods be reduced? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-21-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-21-163	I need to repeat some of my previous answer. So again, pork, milk, poultrymeat, eggs, milk. [[Szabó Timea: That was before! Antal Csárdi: Milk twice, because there is UHT milk and all that.]] No, all kinds of milk from 2019. UHT milk also has a 5% VAT. But, honourable Member, you have started to mention what basic foods are. It honours me to call the grapes and the plums, and therefore the fruit thereof. You're right, let's cut the VAT on this, but let's cut your VAT when the burdeny capacity of the budget makes it possible. [[Antal Csárdi: 10 000 billion HUF is available!]] [[Antal Csárdi: 10 000 billion HUF is available!]] By the way, the bill you submitted earlier causes budget losses of HUF 170-200 billion (Antal Csárdi: HUF 10 000 billion is available!) We can't come up with that now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Head of the Szabó Timea Group, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Ladies and Gentlemen, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. Now you have the floor, please.
u2020-09-21-165	Thank you for the floor. I don't know if the Secretary of State can answer that question. It will be very simple, I promise. On 30 July, Minister Gergely Gulyás announced that the government did not support any investment in the island of Shipyard, and compared to this, we did not see that it had withdrawn the authorisation for the construction of the planned mobile dam and the government decision on it. Although, after a great Hercehurt and pressure, after I sent a separate written question to the Minister, and also submitted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution, the government has taken a decision to transfer the kayak-kenu centre from the Shipyard Island to Sukoro, but it has not yet withdrawn the authorisation to build a mobile dam, i.e. in principle the government is still planning to cut down 3 hectares of forest, i.e. more than 3,000 trees. Both Óbuda and the capital protested, and the residents protested. My question will be very simple, Mr. Secretary. When to withdraw the government from 302/2019. Decision No 1 on the provision of the resources necessary to prepare for the implementation of the flood protection system in the Óbuda and Shipyard Islands? To put it even more simply, does Gergely Gulyás now confirm that the government does not support any investment on the island of Shipyard, i.e. it will not happen to chop down 3,000 trees and it will not build a devastating mobile dam costing about HUF 20 billion? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-21-166	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-167	Dear Congresswoman, Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, it would help if you could write down what you're thinking about sometimes, so my answer is simple enough. On the one hand, what Minister has said is clearly said and done, so I do not need to confirm it. However, I can confirm one thing: as a result of your scheme, any large investment in Budapest that was needed elsewhere, and raises the light of Budapest, either falls or slips, and the investments that would serve or serve to increase the green surface of Budapest are also due to the entire left. I would also like to add that after a very large majority of the left hates, hates, does not like sports, so Katalin Kovács' Olympic champion Katalin Kovács's kayak canoe academy, which was planned for there, was successfully driven away. Thank God we found a good place, and that's actually Lake Venice. By the way, if you had stayed in government at the time, I was talking about the pre-2010 period, the partner with whom you have now joined up, from Jobbik to you, would have disappeared that area long ago, because there would have been nothing left for that casino project and programme in Sukoro, from which everyone would have been excluded, and there would have been neither green nor water. After that, thank you very much for your concern for nature in general, the environment, the Danube or anything else, completely uncredited by what you are doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2020-09-21-169	Mr. Secretary. Did I speak English? I spoke English. Did I ask you a simple question? I asked you a simple question. Did you answer the question? [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes.]] He didn't answer. The question is to withdraw the government from 302/2019. a government decision on one. Two, is the government still planning to build the mobile barrier on the island of Óbuda, Shipyard? [[18.00]] The 3,000 trees you're about to cut off on the island of Shipyard currently have 40 tons of carbon dioxide per year in the air. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Christmas with Gergő's tree cuts, what's going on? You don't want to?]] It is not negligible in the fight against air pollution. What raises the light of Budapest and we do not: we believe that the trees raise the light of Budapest, and you believe that it is stealing. We really have a massively different opinion on this. Let's not bring Sukoro here, it's none of our business, not yours, not us. My first press conference was against the integration of Óbuda Island. Let's not bring this here. Answer the question, it's your job, nothing else. Thank you.
u2020-09-21-170	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-21-171	Thank you very much. This bilateralism that you, your party, and the whole left, is amazing. On one side, your party partner, Mr. Gergely Mayor Christmas, who loves nature so much, has cut down dozens of trees as mayor and now as mayor. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! Oops!]] On the other hand, it's amazing the two-faced thing that you take and represent in politics, because you're trying to protect nature from one side. [[Szabó Timea: You can never answer a question!]] On the other hand, they stand behind the back of a man like that, Ferenc Gyurcsány was here during the day... [[Szabó Timea: Answer the question!]] Don't yell at me, please, just hear me out, okay? ! [[Szabó Timea: That's why you're here!]] So they stood behind a man named Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Szabó Timea: That is not what instant Question Time is about, but how you answer the question!]] Who wanted to steal half of Lake Venice, he wanted to take something that wasn't appropriate. [[Tamás Menczer to Timea Szabó: Take it easy!]] Now...
u2020-09-21-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's not the hour of unlimited discussion, it's the hour of immediate questioning. [[Szabó Timea: I also say immediate questions! The answer is...]] So I'm warning you because you've been shouting all the time, and I would like to call your attention to keeping a certain tone of voice. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-173	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I just want to say that we really need to test it, my dear Congresswoman. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-174	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Katalin Csöbör, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. How can a fundamental right to human dignity be protected? Ma'am, I'm sorry, ma'am. I'm sorry, ma'am. Minister Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, was entitled to answer his question because of his absence, and from now on, he will be given the answer to his question. Congresswoman Katalin Csöbör should take the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On 11 October an interim parliamentary election will be held in the Tiszaújváros constituency, but there is a concern that the hypocrisy of the Socialists knows no boundaries. They, who cry for democracy and the rule of law every day with snakes and frogs, are now launching a candidate who openly made racist statements. In addition, Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the left tried to protect this person. The candidate on the left has turned out to be very serious. All this began with anti-Semitic statements, anti-Gypsy manifestations like these, under the heading judapest and lice slides, and then continued with vague corporate affairs, emigrated workers and threats to the weapon. The governing parties approached László Bíró Bíró on the left with a number of questions, but he did not answer the questions in substance, but threatened to sue. At the same time, a new situation has emerged, as the press has also published a number of documents confirming that Judge has withheld his employees' wages. How many people didn't get paid off from the firm run by the Judge? How many families have their livelihoods been compromised? Enough of the founding and bullshit now, people expect straight answers instead of bullshit. Let the Left confess that despite his insufferable speeches and ruining people's lives, he continued to support László Bíró. Do they really consider a candidate qualified to represent residents who violates the human dignity of others without blinking? In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Minister or State Secretary how the fundamental right to human dignity can be protected if the left is able to issue or take on such a candidate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Tibor Nunkovics: At least we managed to read it. Nacsa Lőrinc: It's still true!]]
u2020-09-21-176	I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-09-21-177	Congresswoman, thank you for asking. Mr President, Dear Parliament, How much truth he has told us, we have no better proof that they've started yelling again, yelling at the right representatives. How they do not tolerate the truth! Two kinds of truth: one that specifically concerns László Bíró's person, the other that is closely related to how they are connected to the left, and now they have become left-wing parties from an extreme right-wing party, and so they run together in the election, hiding behind Ferenc Gyurcsány's back. What you asked, Madam Member: we find a typical double standard for left-wing parties and their background, and it is a typical double standard for what we see from the perspective of foreign press and politics and left-wing. Why? Because when it comes to this man making or making racist statements, when it turns out that he is clearly speaking against Judaism or against gypsyism, what is the answer? They either keep quiet, run away from questions, or lay low and say nothing, but they snuggle up nicely and start in a coalition. That's what we see in the country; thank God, the voters see it. On the other hand, it has to be added that I think that the worst thing the candidate has done is that there is a company that has received a state grant, and then, in a way, it does not pay the poorest employees. This, who dares to do so, operates a company between 14 and 16 from which he was obviously employed, and then dismisses the workers without paying them, is totally unacceptable. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: That's not true!]] And behind this man stood the company that is still yelling, but they have the mask, and then there's no way to make out what they're saying. [[György Szilágyi: That's not true! That's a lie!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a one-minute rejoinder, I give the floor to Congresswoman Csöbör. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-09-21-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am proud to be part of a community that advocates zero tolerance in this matter. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Puddle!]] And I trust him [[Interview from Jobbik: János Pócs! The president's ringing the bell.]] that on 11 October the voters of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county will make the right decision in constituency 6 and vote for a candidate who can represent the people who live there in a dignified manner and can continue the work of our colleague Ferenc Koncz, who died suddenly and tragically. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, is the subject of a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-181	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The last ten years, I think, prove everything in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County: there were school closures before that, and now we have saved the schools; we have created jobs, and we have moved the people who had the left-wing thinking and mentality set up for help, their whole lives were nothing but a set-up for aid. It is interesting to look at his statement to Jobbik nine years ago, then even they said the same thing. Now they've stopped this thing, and suddenly they're behind Ferenc Gyurcsány. And they did not vote for both education, such as the free textbook supply of 1.2 million students, and the triple increase for both free or reduced meals in ten years. They're all not voted. In other words, the poorest people, or the most needy, did not stand side by side. I think it's also the decision of the election that we have here, who will stand by, those who want to distribute social assistance, or those who want to help those who need it with decent work. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[18.10]]
u2020-09-21-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Mr President, because of the Minister's absence, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has given the right to reply, and he will answer your question. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the last few months, the coronal virus epidemic has changed the lives of all of us, the whole world, including Hungary, of course, perhaps one of Hungary's greatest challenges since the change of regime, and this is what we have to meet in the next period. The fight against the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic has been successfully fought, and we Fidesz-KDNP MEPs hope that, with the second wave coming, the behaviour of the left will also change, and this time they will not prevent the defence, although they have only been able to afford to campaign here in Parliament with an anti-Semitic candidate. However, at the first opportunity, it turned out that this was not the case, and the left repeatedly proves that they cannot be counted on for protection. They pick up exactly where they left off at the first wave of the plague: they were making fakes, now they're making fake news. Last week, a left-wing psychic told a lie that there weren't enough ventilators in two hospitals, and left-wing politicians immediately connected and spread the Kamuhir. Of course, Gyurcsány's party, Szabó Timea, and of course Gyurcsány's support team, Jobbik, were the leaders of the fake news distribution. Dear Secretary of State, Let's get this straight. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State that there are enough ventilators in hospitals, or what is the situation with false news, because it is very important that the second wave of health is properly prepared and well prepared. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In fake news production, the left was not stingy about hospital protective equipment or equipment even during the first wave. We can remember when an ex-right-on-the-rights congressman broke the rules of entry, got into a hospital, and tried, didn't try, even introduced protective equipment for visitors as if it belonged to doctors. We can remember Bernadett Szél, who, packing from the trunk of his car, told the German public service TV that there are no masks in hospitals in Hungary, so he has to deliver masks to hospitals and health institutions. This is what the opposition seems to continue to do in the autumn, trying to prove that there were problems with the care of patients or with the ventilator at the beginning of September. Let's see how we stood this spring and where we stand now. Our mask was 1.6 million in March, now there are more than 100 million; there were 20 million test gloves, now there are 95 million pairs of rubber gloves; there were 2560 respirators, now we have well over ten thousand, and we are better prepared. Fortunately, the number of hospital beds per thousand inhabitants in Hungary is also high, 7, with which the third most hospital beds per thousand inhabitants are in Hungary, only Austria and Germany are ahead of Hungary, followed by the Czech Republic, Poland and other EU Member States. We saw the same thing and the same opposite from the Hungarian left. In the spring, he attacked the government with too few ventilators, in the fall he attacked the government with too many ventilators in Hungary. They attack epidemiology professionals, they produce fake news; Hungarians cannot rely on the left in the epidemiological defense [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Just like they couldn't count on you in the spring. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-187	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer, it is reassuring to hear that there are enough protective equipment and hospital beds, a ventilator now, when we are at the beginning of the second wave, and we have also heard from the Prime Minister what the worst scenario could be and what the health system and the experts in the epidemic should be prepared for. I am only surprised that the left is so abstract that, within six months, they were able to change their entire rhetoric twice, perhaps also faced by Secretary Menczer, because in March they said that there were not enough ventilators, in June they said that there were too many ventilators, now again in September they said that there were not enough ventilators. Well, I want a man on his feet who can adjust his left-wing communication. But of course, it's not new to them, if we look at Jobbik's Facebook page, they're constantly dealing with fake news coverage, they're constantly spreading fake news that the hospitals are rebutting, the Ministry denies that it's not true. We simply ask them to stop doing that, to stop doing that, and not to make it difficult for them to defend themselves; if they do not wish to participate, at least do not prevent us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]]
u2020-09-21-188	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]]
u2020-09-21-189	There is an internal debate on the left side of the horseshoe, I think we should not interfere, but the Hungarian left could no doubt have tried once, since 1919, to stand next to a national case, but it seems that it has not succeeded once, even now. With regard to the gradual nature of defence, we have already followed the general protocols that, when there are relatively fewer patients, they should be provided in some institutions, with a focus, and as the number of patients increases, more and more institutions can be involved. There are still ten thousand hospital beds available for the potential treatment of patients with coronal viruses, and they are now being transported to a smaller facility in designated facilities, but if needed, up to 22 more hospitals in the second round can be transferred to the hospitals to which the patients with the coronal virus are being treated and cured. It is very important that in these institutions, the environment in which ventilators have been developed has been developed in the past. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] they can work, because special connections are needed here; they are also built, and all the necessary costs have been provided by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask an immediate question to Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister responsible for national politics, ecclesiastical affairs and ethnicities: Why does the Deputy Prime Minister dissuade Transylvanian Hungarians from the possibility of free elections? In response to the absence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr János Potápi gave the right to reply, so he will give the answer to his question. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-191	I'll take it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You don't have to!]] Dear Secretary of State, On Sunday, September 27th, there will be municipal elections in Romania. In this connection, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén sent a video message expressing his clear position that only DAHR is the only political organisation capable of protecting the Hungarian interest. The question arises: do you think that László Kövér, the Honorary President of the Hungarian Civil Party, is the Transylvanian Hungarian People's Party and its patron László Tőkés, unfit to represent the Romanian Hungarians? In the block-Hungarian area, where the Hungarian victory is certain, there can be no competition between the DAHR and those political parties and independent candidates, even if they have done excellently in the past? Where it is justified to start only a Hungarian party or candidate, is it automatic that it can only be the DAHR without any agreement? In his statement to me, László Tőkés expressed his surprise at the direct intervention of Zsolt Semjén, by declaring the non-RMDSZ Hungarian candidates as unprobable and despicable, and he says, I quote precisely:. In his speech on the occasion of the opening of the Sapientia online year, Minister of State Potápi goes to the prognosis of the anti-democratic one-party system, which reminds us of the old times, when he states: "A foreign Hungarian community cannot support more ethnic parties, we can focus our forces only in a Hungarian party. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I do not wish to discourage anyone from voting on the RMDSZ, but I reject this harsh Hungarian government intervention. László Tőkés put it this way: I believe that Hungarians in Romania have the right not only to vote but also to choose. Why are they promoting the opposite position? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why are they taking away the opportunity? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-21-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Potápi, State Secretary. Here you go. [[18.20]]
u2020-09-21-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, The question was exactly why the Deputy Prime Minister was dissuading Hungarians from Transylvania about the possibility of free elections. Of course, it's not like that. Hungarians from Transylvania, who are Romanian citizens or only Romanian citizens, can take part in the municipal elections on the weekend, 27 September, and, of course, everyone is entrusted with who they vote for, who they choose for local authorities. We have drawn attention to the fact that we believe that Hungarians in Transylvania will choose well if they vote for DAHR. In the last elections, if we look only at the municipal elections, the results speak for themselves. In 2016, 195 mayors were elected from the colours of RMDSZ, and 9 mayors were given by MPP and EMNP in total. Where the President of the Council, i.e. when translated into Hungarian, gave the chair of the General Assembly, in the five counties all five were given by RMDSZ. We believe that if, in this situation, especially in sharp situations, like in Szatmár or Bihar, the Hungarian candidate, which the RMDSZ stands for, is moved to a Hungarian candidate, thereby reducing the chances of Hungarians and taking action against Hungarians. I think there's no point in starting another candidate for DAHR's candidates in a situation that doesn't stand a chance. That's all we said, the numbers prove it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-09-21-195	Secretary of State, I don't have time, but I can tell you where independent councilmen and candidates from MPP and EMNP are. You say if there's a stronger couple, the rest of you get lost. It is clear that you say that in place of the need for agreement, where there is a block-Hungarian area, where a Hungarian representative is elected. This fits into your recent anticompetitive policy. Public procurement? Just head for the NER oligarchs. Press? Make it KESMA. Index? Let's take the opportunity. And this year, they crossed a line because in Borsod they wanted no better candidate to run. Orbán said that with a fake smile, proudly. But he's on the move because he's a better man, and he's supporting the other parties. And now they move on, and the Transylvanian Hungarians are inspired not to choose, only to vote for the party you named. I think László Tőkés' quote was good because I do not misinterpret your intervention.
u2020-09-21-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Árpád Potápi State Secretary is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-09-21-197	Thank you very much. Although I am a Hungarian-History major teacher, and we talked about the elections in Borsod all afternoon, but just to be on the ground, this election will take place in Zemplén before the voters depart elsewhere. But to ask the question: we really see and then I say only two areas: to start a Hungarian candidate from another party on the candidates of DAHR in Bihar and Szatmár, this is treason. There's no other way to put it. There is nothing here about NER or anyone else, simply: anyone who threatens the effectiveness of these presidential candidates in the weekend elections is committing national treason. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Balczó: And who is the traitor? László Tőkés?]]
u2020-09-21-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask my fellow Members to allow Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to present her immediate question calmly. Dear House, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you have already experienced, Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond because of his absence, and he will give you the answer. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-09-21-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to a statement from the Ministry of Human Resources at the end of August, it is certain that the second wave of the virus started in Hungary due to infections introduced from abroad. According to a statement from the Ministry of Human Resources, it can also be concluded that an infected average of 8 to 10 other people pass on the infection. Then let's try again what I just started, Mr. Secretary. You are constantly accusing the opposition side that we are only rooting for the government not to be able to defend itself, we have used all means to ensure that this does not work. Secretary of State, 20,000 people will enter the Gunnery Arena on Thursday, the 24th, experimentally. It's experimental because UEFA itself acknowledged this. Everyone already declares, from the Bavarian Prime Minister to the coach of the team, that they do not understand why Hungary allows this, because they pose the greatest threat not only to the fans, the players, but also to the population of Budapest or even to the population of Hungary. The Bavarian Prime Minister has announced that they will take very strict sanctions against the fans who will return to Germany. Mr State Secretary, you are constantly referring to the fact that you know the opinion of the Hungarian people. Do you know, Mr. Secretary, what people talk about at the barbershop, the market, the store? Why no more stringent measures are taken in Hungary today, even though every day the number of cases and the number of deaths increase. It's because Viktor Orbán cares about Thursday's game. They talk about at home, in the countryside, in the cities that nothing else is expected of Viktor Orbán and his government but that this match should be held. And next week, there will be tightening up, only, dear congresswoman, this match must be settled in Hungary in any way, because Viktor Orbán is more concerned with the fight than the protection of the Hungarian people. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary, whether or not you've received permission from Muller Cecilia to host the match.
u2020-09-21-200	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, After two questions, you are asking the same question for the third time, honourable Member. At the same time, I think the importance of people's opinions is extremely important. If you believe that a government should follow the path that people say you said what you hear at the hairdresser's shop, then why did you tear up the national consultation sheet here in Parliament when it was the national consultation on the protection of families? Didn't the people who sent that national consultation back matter to you? That's tearable here in Parliament, that's irrelevant? Then why did you encourage the left-wing followers, their supporters, during the national consultation on the control of the coronal virus epidemic, not to send it back, just in case, to give it to you, to destroy it? Or some of their activists have even stolen national consultation sheets from the mailboxes. Are people's opinions important or not important? It's obviously important to us. It is necessary to create predictable conditions and the highest possible level of security in order to create the conditions for the preservation of health for people in every situation, in any cultural and sporting event, in the shop, in the customer service, in the hospital, in the social institution, anywhere else, in places of entertainment. That is what we have done, and that is what we have launched the national consultation. People said that the virus must be protected, but Hungary must work. Therefore, a regulatory system has been put in place, exactly from today, which will provide the opportunity to defend ourselves, especially in hospitals, in the interests of the elderly, in the interests of chronic patients, but at the same time in workplaces work can continue, no one should feel at risk of their job, teaching in schools, obviously a little differently than at other times, with body temperature measurements, fewer meetings in the corridors, the restructuring or abolition of non-curricular occupations, but there should continue to be life. That is precisely why we launched the national consultation. That's exactly why it's important, and that's exactly why it's important for you to be involved in this and not try to make it impossible. The people have returned the arches to millions, giving their views on your attitude. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.30]]
u2020-09-21-202	Thank you very much. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-203	Mr. Secretary, I asked you a simple question: did Muller Cecilia give you permission to play this game, or not? You didn't answer the third time, Mr. Secretary. By the way, in the consultation I did not read this question, that the Supercup final was experimentally used by Hungarian people as guinea pigs, so the Hungarian people would allow it to take place in the middle of the epidemic or not. You may be surprised, Mr. Secretary, that even your voters would write that they do not, Your Honour. And you know, Honourable Secretary of State, people are really talking about the fact that the only reason they don't withdraw is because Viktor Orbán's obsession is that once we've done it, let's do it, no matter what the consequences are. Secretary of State, one sentence: a person who carries out medical research on a person without a permit or otherwise than a permit shall be punished for a crime of up to 1-5 years in prison. But it's more serious than that, Mr. Secretary, apart from the permit: if there is an outbreak, who will take responsibility for the outbreak and possibly the possibility of deaths? Secretary of State, if you care about the health of Hungarian people, stop it, there are a few more days, it is not worth it, believe me. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-09-21-204	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The same strict laws apply to all events and events in Hungary. This event is subject to even more specific, even stricter legal requirements, precisely so that the risk of spreading the virus is always delivered to the minimum. There are special rules for school education, as well as special rules for nightclubs, and in all other cases where the virus can spread, there are special rules. I see that the Digital MSZP Congress this weekend has not gone without a trace on you, and that is the kind of disappointment you are experiencing here in Parliament, honourable Member. But I am asking you not to encourage people to do what they did in the spring, for example, in terms of graduation, and even one of your satellite organizations has declared civil disobedience, not to do what they said when they told you not to graduate, not to get a high school degree, but to try to be responsible for these issues. It is important for everyone to comply with the legislation that is known to everyone. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-21-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wishes to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. What about the bounceback? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the absence of the President of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, he authorised Vice-President Barnabas Virág to respond. Since we have not made a rule that can be replaced, apart from the Prime Minister and the ministers, I must ask you in this sense to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank for the answer personally.
u2020-09-21-207	Thank you, Mr President, I accept the Vice-President's reply.
u2020-09-21-208	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett has the floor. Here you go. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2020-09-21-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, In the spring, the government and the central bank issued extremely optimistic estimates of the rate at which the Hungarian economy can recover. The most optimistic seemed to be György Matolcsy, President of the National Bank. In mid-May, he talked about 2-3 percent this year's growth and the V-shaped course of the crisis. This happened when there was no serious economic factor in Europe, who would have expected the so-called rapid bounce back. At this point, the Hungarian government had already seen a 3 percent decline in its convergence programme, and the European Commission had predicted a 7 percent recession. This resulted in a 14.5 percent decline in Hungary for the second quarter. It is therefore time to face the fact that, after the monetary policy of previous years, the central bank has hardly any means left to support economic growth, and therefore only the general government deficit can be released. This was done: at the end of July, the deficit was six times the original planned deficit, by the end of the year it could reach up to 10 percent of GDP. By the end of the year, the government debt will be 78.3 percent, according to Fitch Ratings, and according to this, the debt of 80.6 percent, which was then considered terrible by Viktor Orbán, was reduced by 2.3 percentage points in ten years by hard work. Similarly, with effective economic strategy planning, the 50 percent debt ratio in the Fundamental Law can be reached in 133 years, i.e. 2143. The remaining money has not, according to experience, migrated to sectors of the economy to save the economy, to create businesses, to create jobs. So I respectfully ask the Vice-President where the bounce stays. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-09-21-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is to Vice-President Barnabas Virág. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. I'm guessing that's your eulogy here in Parliament. Congratulations.
u2020-09-21-211	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, On this issue, I would like to stress that behind the spring projections there were three basic assumptions from the central bank, three basic statements from the central bank. Our first claim was that the Hungarian economy has a strong immune system and strong fundamentals. Our second statement was that the Hungarian economy would have a successful epidemic management in connection with the first wave. Our third claim or third suggestion was that the second wave of the epidemic would not occur, and the world and Europe within it would not once again face a similar or even greater challenge than we saw in the first wave. The answer to your question is clearly that the second wave is what moves growth prospects around the world at the moment. Allow me to evaluate the first semester very briefly from an economic point of view, as I say, as an economic expert, we have to evaluate the numbers. In the first half of the year, the Hungarian economy has a decline of almost 6 percent. He's in the same league as the countries of the region. I would just like to remind you that we could not say this in a similar period of 2009. Then Hungary was completely out of the region, they didn't even mention us on one page. Let me mention some more data on this. In the case of our labour market, we see that the unemployment rate remains stable, while wages have shown a two-digit increase during this period. So you can see that the epidemic treatment that put Hungary among the 25 most successful countries on the world map from a health point of view has also brought positive results in its economic effects. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-09-21-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congresswoman Versus Anett. Here you go. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Shall we have some champagne?]]
u2020-09-21-213	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your reply. I would like to draw attention to the fact that crisis management packages have served everywhere in Europe, and in this I would like to ask Mr Vice-President's help as a professional, that I think that cooperation between the National Bank and the national government will now be exceptionally important in crisis management. We have very often stressed to opposition colleagues that if we allow the money to dry out, because we are faced with a crisis that we have not yet encountered, in some sectors demand and supply have disappeared, so we believe that it is good to help make up for the money that we see from partners in Western Europe, with a rescue package of EUR 200-300 billion. Obviously, this will be smaller in terms of the size of the farm, but a similar rescue package can be defined in terms of proportion. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the economy, similarly to the situation of patients with a coronary virus, needs a ventilator. The dying can heal, the dead cannot be resurrected. If there are no dead companies or jobs left after the crisis, we will not have a chance to bounce back, but even to climb up very slowly. Thank you.
u2020-09-21-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Vice President. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-215	Thank you for asking. I'd really like to subpoena some of your facts. In the first semester, residential consumption in Hungary, which, I think, is a very important measure of well-being, decreased by 1.6 percent. This is among the first five best figures in Europe. So Hungary has successfully protected families and jobs during the first half of the year. What have we done for businesses? Allow me to give you some numbers from the central bank side. The growth credit program is on its way. Since March or April, 600 billion HUF of loans and low-cost, long forint lending have been made. [[18.40]] In addition, the central bank purchased sovereign debt worth more than HUF 350 billion to support sovereign debt market stability and provided an additional HUF 1834 billion in long-term assets to the banking system, some of which also struck the sovereign debt market, thereby strengthening Hungary's stability again. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-09-21-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 6:40 p.m., and we're at the end of the immediate questions. Thanking you for your cooperation so far, I'm handing over the chairmanship to Vice President Brenner Koloman. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]]
u2020-09-21-217	Dear Parliament, [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws to better protect victims of violent crimes against a serious person who has been harmed by relatives will follow. The government referral is T/10953. Number 1 was available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2020-09-21-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, There have recently been a number of tragic and totally unacceptable events that have drawn attention to the need to tighten criminal law. In the winter of 2019, a convicted felon who committed a violent crime against a person who had previously committed an offence against his wife, on parole, killed two minor children. In the spring of 2020, a person who had been suspended from prison for the commission of a violent crime against a former relative was executed by his father. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has declared zero tolerance against violence. The experience of the comprehensive government inquiry ordered by the Minister of Justice of Judit Varga to investigate the circumstances of the dual murder in Győr and the work of the family law task force set up by the Ministry of Justice also confirmed the need for more effective, stricter action against persons committing violent crimes against the person. Ladies and gentlemen, The T/10953 in front of you. In the area of criminal law, the bill seeks to find a solution to a social problem that divides families into a lack of hope and terror, while because of the links between those involved, the act often becomes the focus of attention only when it has tragic consequences that cannot be reversed. Although dealing with all segments of the problem is rather cumbersome, I believe this bill is taking a significant step as a new step in the government's criminal policy since 2010 in order to prevent and manage crimes committed to the harm of relatives. During the codification work carried out in the framework of judicial reform starting in 2010, the government has consistently sought to develop effective, sufficiently stringent and dissuasive legislation against crime, in particular violent crimes, which can respond adequately to new challenges of criminality. During this workflow, increased protection of victims, as effective as possible rehabilitation and compensation of victims and victims of crime, and prevention of re-victimisation was a priority. In order to achieve these objectives, it was an important stage in the creation of the facts of relationship violence, which seeks to protect human dignity, existential security, self-determination, personal freedom and physical integrity of persons in a relationship or in such a relationship, and to ensure their freedom from violence. Criminal statistics show a steady decline in the number of crimes, including crimes against life, which also show a fortunate downward trend. All this proves that the rules of the Criminal Code set the right direction for combating violence by severely punishing violent crime, punishing a relative, in particular a child, as a classified case, as well as the posing of sexual violence. At the same time, recent tragic events have highlighted the need to continue relentlessly on the road, and, in the light of experience, even more effective action requires a review of the legal environment. Dear House, The criminal justice system, which has been shaped since 2010, has always focused on protecting victims, should be broadened by a toolbox that creates a more effective structure to prevent and eliminate serious harm, which is also susceptible to individual circumstances. In order to develop the appropriate steps, a comprehensive government review has been carried out, which has also examined legislation and case law. On this basis, the present bill seeks to establish a multi-layered legislative solution which, in particular with a view to prevention, creates a gradual system. The first pillar of the draft legislation envisages tightening the regulation of conditional release. The amendment precludes the possibility of conditional release by law in the event of a prison sentence of the most serious perpetrator of crimes deliberately attacking human life. Therefore, anyone who deliberately pursues someone else's life cannot be granted conditional leave and this provision will not be excluded. This absolute exclusion shall also include the attempted criminal offences of high material gravity listed. Due to the dangers of the listed crimes and of the perpetrators in these inexplicable acts to an exorbitant society, the full rigour of criminal law must be dealt with in such cases. Nor is there room for a weighing relief of the legal consequences laid down by law. In addition to the circle subject to absolute exclusion, there is also a need to tighten up violent crimes against a person of close to such material weight and to ensure by law that the exclusion of the possibility of conditional leave is in principle a matter of principle. On the basis of the bill, these criminal offences include persons involved in or carrying out the preparation of such offences, as well as perpetrators of serious criminal offences against a person under threat of imprisonment of at least 8 years. However, the possibility of individualisation can already be ensured in this context, and therefore the court may, following an assessment of the circumstances of the offence and the risk inherent in the person of the perpetrator and the examination of the associated special circumstances which merit appreciation, consider conditional release individually, subject to strict rules. In order to ensure increased protection of relatives in the latter case, i.e. in the case of the exceptional authorisation of conditional release of leave, mandatory guarantee rules will also be introduced as the second pillar of the bill. In this context, it is of particular importance, on the one hand, to impose mandatory supervision of the patron, which guarantees the control of the behaviour and compliance of the perpetrator throughout the period during which the sentenced person is removed from the direct supervision of the execution of the sentence through the authorised conditional leave. On the other hand, the protection of victims and their peaceful, safe lives are facilitated by the mandatory provision of a separate restraining order and the supervision of this by means of a technical tool to monitor the movements of the sentenced. These rules shall ensure that, during the period of conditional leave, the sentenced person does not have the opportunity to approach or engage in physical, psychological abuse, endangering or even harassing behaviour against the victim. [[18.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The third pillar of the bill aims to increase the protection of relatives when a probationary sentence has been imposed in the execution of a violent crime against them. As with conditional release, there is also a lack of supervision and supervision of the sentenced person in a direct prison in the event of the suspension of imprisonment. It is therefore appropriate, in this case too, to require removal from relatives and compulsory supervision of patrons. The measures introduced by the bill will ensure, on the one hand, that the prisoners are kept under constant watch and, on the other hand, that the victims remain calm. Keeping these rules will not only be expected to be a severe punishment in the event of a new offence, but will also increase the awareness that a serious breach of the rules of conduct may result in the execution of the remainder of the imprisonment or of the suspended imprisonment. Another very important part of the bill is the fourth pillar, which builds up more extensive information flows, a decision-making and control system that better serves the individualization of punishment. In order to facilitate this, the court may require the involvement of a number of fields in order to establish a decision on conditional leave. For example, in order to clarify the mental state, you can also order a specialist, psychologist's opinion on the child of the convicted minor to obtain a guardianship opinion. As regards the rules supporting the decision, it should be pointed out that it is closely linked to the new rules ensuring an effective flow of information between parts of the child protection signalling system. XLIII of 2020 amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and other related laws We introduced the rules of law adopted in spring into the prison rules that the release of the prisoner, if he has a minor child, should be notified to the guardian authority at appropriate times. Finally, the bill also aims to ensure the completeness of the rules on the prescription of psychiatric patients for the treatment of psychiatric patients in criminal proceedings by the 1997 CLIV on health care. by amending the law. Under the rules in force, the regulation of institutional care was only in the event that the perpetrator was ordered to undergo OCD treatment, or if the forced medical treatment could not be ordered only because, in the event of the criminality of the perpetrator, a penalty of no more than one year's imprisonment would have to be imposed. At the same time, the bill ensures that the conditions for the provision of care in a psychiatric institution in the case of a person convicted of a violent or public offence are also examined even if the sentenced person had a limited set-off capacity. Together, the acquisition of expert opinions, the more effective involvement of patron supervisors and the extension of the mandatory cases of psychiatric institution treatment may be able to identify the mental problems and personality distortions of prisoners in time before any tragic consequences arise. Regulatory cooperation and information flow channels shall ensure, in accordance with procedural obligations, that the competent enforcement, child protection or health services are able to take measures and decisions within their competence, to which they have all the necessary information. Dear House, It would be overly optimistic to say that the bill before you would be capable of preventing all cases such as the murder of children in Győr or the spring tragedy. Unfortunately, no punishment, measure, law or regulation can eliminate unforeseen tragedies. In addition, cooperation and information flows between determining bodies will become more effective at systemic level, and the sanctioning system will be significantly better adapted than before to the identity, mental status of the perpetrator and to the weight and nature of the crime committed. Although the proposal is not extensive, it introduces conceptual novelties in relation to violent crimes against the person or to the harm of relatives. This will ensure that not only the two unfortunate tragedies, but other cases such as them are likely to be avoided and prevented more widely. A significant part of the citizen's comments submitted during the social consultation of the bill were in agreement with the proposal, its planned measures and direction. This shows that in addition to the government, society is committed to the strict accountability of serious offenders and the broadening of victim protection. The bill was also drawn up in a spirit of these requirements. In addition, the choice of solutions was supported by the judiciary and the prosecution, which provides further certainty that it will be able to deal with the problems underlying the drafting of the bill in practice. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-219	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Gyula Budai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-220	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The tragedy that was deeply upsetting and traumatic in spirit occurred in December 2019. There was no man in the country who would not have been intimidated by the brutal crime known as Győr's double child murder. Personally, I, the father of two daughters, had a terrible experience. Violently serious crimes against life and other crimes seriously harming or threatening life and physical integrity are cruel and terrible tragedies in respect of which the legislator is obliged to examine how the causes of the tragedy can be prevented and excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, The serious crime mentioned above was suspected of being committed by a father on conditional leave. It is therefore suspected that this legal institution may not function properly within the framework of the judicial system. Minister Judit Varga has immediately initiated a comprehensive government inquiry following the case, resulting in a report under which the Ministry of Justice has the task of reviewing the regulation of conditional release and the possible tightening of the criminal code and other legislation. This task of the wallet was fully fulfilled. It is also not negligible to mention that, as a support for professional work, the Curia case-law analysis group was also established. I would like to compare what has been said with a foreign example, if I may. In November 2019 and February 2020, the perpetrators of knife attacks in London were also convicted on parole, and the British Government initiated a tightening of the jurisdiction and enforcement rules on perpetrators of terrorist offences. So we can see that it is not a foreigner at all to move towards a more stringent criminal policy. The amendments proposed by the House's table introduce criminal law solutions which, on their own, in a complex way, while at the same time avoiding the emergence of emergencies in a proportionate manner depending on the degree of risk, taking into account the principle of graduality. It is therefore necessary to create a situation for the legislator in which the social policy role of the already mentioned legal institution and the question of social justice are faced. It is clear that the current national government is clearly a spear in favour of restoring people's sense of justice. Dear House, The legal institution of conditional freedom has already been regulated by the Csemegi Code in Hungarian law. In fact, conditional release is a benefit which aims to ensure that the time of actual detention is shorter than the time of the sentence imposed in the judgment, thereby reducing the adverse effects of imprisonment on the person of the sentenced person, and that his reintegration into society is as smooth as possible. Of course, there are both objective and subjective criteria for conditional release. [[19.00]] When we talk about promoting a sense of justice and security in society, we also need to talk about the principle of punishment proportionate to action. The point is that the penalty imposed must be proportionate to the gravity of the consequence of the act being committed. This could be a principle of consideration, including in the context of violent crimes against a serious person who has been harmed by relatives. Dear Parliament, Mr Secretary of State has provided us with maximum and thorough information in his exposé, but please allow me to highlight the main points of the proposal myself. The guiding principle of the lines of the proposed amendments is that the possibility of granting conditional leave is excluded from the most serious prison sentence, which violates human life or physical integrity, as well as from a fixed sentence for violent crimes against a person of significant material gravity committed to the harm of the relative, so that these cases are organised by law, i.e. Btk. 38. §2 of the Act must be supplemented. We need to see that we have to count on a two-stage regulation, and so does the legislator, because in the case of the most serious crime involving the deliberate killing of other people, there is no special justification for removing the legal ban. That's the absolute ban on exclusion. In addition, as in the case of a high degree of social hazard, it is also appropriate that the principle of non-conditional release should apply to perpetrators of serious crimes against persons under threat of imprisonment of at least 8 years' imprisonment. However, it should be underlined that it is appropriate to provide for the possibility of assessing individual circumstances in order to avoid unfair situations. Following an assessment of the circumstances of the crime and the risk inherent in the person of the perpetrator, the Btk. 38. The court may, in exceptional circumstances and subject to strict criteria, release from the law against the perpetrator of a serious criminal offence against a person under threat of imprisonment for at least 8 years, as defined in point 4 of the new paragraph 4 (E) of Article 4 of the Act, which constitutes or is involved in the preparation of an act, and against the perpetrator of a serious criminal offence against a person under threat of imprisonment for at least 8 years. It's a relative ban on exclusion. However, it is only possible to do so, and only if it can be adequately ensured by imposing punishment targets, patrons' supervision and specific rules of conduct. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law expands the scope of cases where the Public Prosecutor's Office is under the Health Act 200. The Commission is obliged to initiate the compulsory psychiatric treatment provided for in Section 2 of this Annex. It should also be pointed out that the norm aims to define the concept of a relative more widely, i.e. extend it to the parent, ex-wife, ex-partner, caretaker, guardian, guardian and guardian of the unsub's child. It is also essential to ensure the integrity of the victim in the case of crimes of this nature, which are deeply off-limits. For this reason, the proposal extends the subject for whom patron supervision can be ordered as a separate code of conduct. Furthermore, it shall be noted that the actual residence of the person concerned by the removal, the living-life property may be protected, irrespective of its legal status, ownership or permanent or temporary nature, in order to ensure that the victim's rest can be adequately ensured. Thus, it will also be possible to keep away from the person under protection for children's welfare, children's protection, or foster homes as shelters, housing. Ladies and gentlemen, It cannot, of course, be ignored if a person's imprisonment for committing the above types of offences is suspended. Under current criminal law, it can be up to two years. In such cases, the exception may prove unnecessary and disproportionate, the introduction of insufficient restrictions, such as retention in justified cases, may not be necessary. However, in order to ensure greater protection for victims, it is necessary to provide that the person otherwise entitled to contact the child of the minor may only be in contact with the child of the minor if this is done in the context of supervised contacts. I would point out here that, throughout the whole time, the proposal provides very consistently for the supervision of the patron to be monitored by technical means. Unfortunately, since the perpetrator of such a crime may also be a minor, provision should be made for the exclusions concerning conditional leave for him to be applicable only if he is 16 years of age and he has been sentenced to imprisonment for 10 years or more. In view of this, the norm is that, in the case of juveniles, the primary aim of the punishment is to develop in the right direction for minors, while deprivation of liberty can only be the ultimate tool for juveniles. Dear House, The Győr case also shows that the prosecution of the judicial authorities when the perpetrator was released on parole without thorough review was unacceptable and intolerable. Serious errors of this magnitude are simply unacceptable. I welcome the government's hearing people's voices on this issue. It must also be shown through legislation that in Hungary, perpetrators are not rewarded, but punished. In view of what has been said, I support the proposed legislation on behalf of the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-221	Thank you. I give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Jobbik has been here in Parliament for more than ten years, and during that time we have discussed a number of times a topic that has dealt with domestic violence, and unfortunately, the experience here in the last ten years has been that we have not made much progress in this area. I think that the absence of Parliament is large enough, and we should do much to stop domestic violence in Hungary. Yes, it is true, as the speakers before me have indicated and have mentioned, that it is a very terrible thing to hear a child committing crimes to harm children, and it is very common, unfortunately, when a crime involving the killing of human life is taking place and at the expense of a child. In addition, it should be mentioned that sexual crimes against children are very common in this area, and while manslaughter sees the light of day, the vast majority of sexual crimes lie in the depths of society and 90 percent are not known, and often even the family does not know what crimes are, and how this will affect the youth, the child's youth, and then his adult life. Obviously, we can change this first, we have to answer those questions, we have to lead the way, and we have to determine how we can reduce this. And yes, indeed, it was this child murder in Győr that knocked out the safeguards in Hungarian society and shocked all people, I think that everyone, even those who were in the penitentiary where appropriate, because I think that the family is the most important basic principle for all people, and children within the family, because children carry the family's future, children also carry the future of the nation. [[19.10]] These are big words, but we have a duty. It is our duty to protect children and to do everything possible to grow up in healthy conditions, and that is where we mean psychological, mental, and other health conditions. In order to do this, the dual child murder in Győr has shown that there is a need to change the legislation. We need to tighten it up, lay down additional conditions, as it was also a perpetrator who had recently been released from prison, where he had spent his well-deserved prison sentence. Indeed, it also turned out that the person was granted leave on parole, and it was also found that in many cases, offenders on parole would commit new crimes. In this regard, I would like to say that this is a good 150-year-old legal institution or more than 150 years-old. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. This institution was invented, or was called, parole at one time, to return the convict to society, since if they had defined an objective available to him that if he had good conduct, he would be released earlier, then obviously the bv institution would have had a much easier time with the convict; because, obviously, if there was a third or a quarter or a fifth, which was known to him in the past, it would also have mattered for him to be released so much earlier, since in many cases it could have meant years for him, as much as he had to spend less time in the detention facility, and indeed, the promise of this release often led the prisoners to change their behaviour, to have good behaviour, at least to believe that they would be able to rejoin society, and indeed, to become useful members of society, after their release. And see how this is not true, this is supported by the statistics, which say, for example, that in 2011, 6576 of 12 028 inmates had fallen out of prison. In 2012, 6533 out of 11,981 cases fell. In 2013, too, we are talking about 7060 repeaters out of 12 391. That's a lot more than 50 percent. This is a shocking ratio, a shocking number, and then it is questionable whether the legal institution of conditional freedom will fulfill its purpose at all in some form, this legal institution is good. This is not the time to find out, but should have been discovered by statistical data at the latest in 2013 and thought about whether this legal institution is a good one. So what happened? Unfortunately, we saw that Fidesz still liberalised this during the initial period of the 2010 government, when it abolished the possibility for prisoners to be released after up to four fifths, but also for them the possibility of one third, and 50 percent, in exceptional cases after filling in 50 percent of the sentence, it was possible to make use of the institution of conditional leave and release. So the legislation was treated in the opposite way, as it should have been, or this legislation was changed. I feel a little similar now, and my fellow Member Gyula Budai has already mentioned the problem of prison business, where, in the end, the legislation of the governing party itself was flawed in the establishment of the prison business and, even in the case of conditional release, there is obviously a responsibility for the government in this area, and it should have been noticed sooner, rather than liberalising, but rather tightening these regulations. Yes, these problems must be mentioned. The 2012 Btk. amendment was only more stringent in one case than the old Btk. in the case of conditional release, and this meant some tightening up for relapsers, but mainly facilitation and liberalisation. In the application of conditional release, the conduct of the sentenced person in the prison, his prior history before entering the bv institution, his life before the crime was committed, his income in the first place, his or her normal work, his or her criminal lifestyle and his or her earnings; then he or she had to be examined for the involvement of the perpetrator in the crime in question, for being an accomplice or for being the organizer and inventor of the crime in question; then it is a deliberate or careless crime, the risk of a relapse, the chances of his or her continuing a law-abiding lifestyle if the perpetrator was released on parole. This investigation has been very diverse so far, and I think that when we tighten this up and the government presents us with a proposal in which we tighten up in these areas, it is very right, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will also support it. Jobbik has also supported virtually every sensible Btk. amendment aimed at preventing crimes from being committed, practically since we have been in Parliament, and I can promise you that we will continue to support them in the future. For example, it is a very important factor here that anyone who takes another person's life in the event of a violent crime should not be on parole. They should not look at the fact that he may have good conduct in the prison, but that there must indeed be a criminal role of the state, that it is indeed a crime of the most serious nature, not to mention that we are talking about a crime committed to harm children in the Győr case, that this conditional release cannot be applied, we fully agree; and that there is also a need to tighten up for relatives and to introduce specific aspects that have yet to be examined by the authorities in order to be conditional on such a criminal parole. And, indeed, it is very important that those tests be carried out with sufficient precision, with appropriate professionals and with sufficient thoroughness, so as not to re-establish conditional leave for potential offenders, for those who would commit crimes of this magnitude. I think that broadening patron supervision is also an important step in this area. Indeed, it is important to monitor the subject of conditional leave, his way of life, his way of life, what kind of company he is involved in, what kind of work he has, a useful member of society, because the continuation of this, the observation of his life in this area is, in my opinion, very important. The question of victim protection has always been stressed about how important we think it is, and here, in prison business, I have talked about it quite a lot about how important Jobbik considers victim protection to be. And here I also think that, yes, in this legislation, it is right that victim protection is also an important aspect of the drafting of this draft legislation, and there is a need for distance in many cases. It is necessary to place a tracker on the parolee, so that we can follow it, and the appropriate authority can follow it, so that the person really complies with those regulations. And if you feel that, the police appreciate that you have broken these regulations, the rules of patronage supervision, in which case, the perpetrator should immediately return to the penitentiary and terminate his conditional release. So in this area, positioning the tracking device, keeping distance, is also an important tool that is absolutely necessary. We also consider it very important that the opinion of the specialist, psychologist, should be prepared when deciding on such matters, and that the opinion of the guardianship authority can be important. But life often draws our attention to the fact that these are very often few, since the mother was also asked about the double child murder in Győr, she was questioned by the court, and she said that the children were missing their father and that the children were terribly expecting their father home. [[19.20]] The mother's brother was also heard, who said that the prisoner had a good relationship with his children, that he had always dealt with them, and that the mother even intervened in the trial of the father's future visitation. The court has also obtained a pedagogical opinion, and I think it has been quite extensive. Yet the crime itself was committed. One thing is certain, there can't be police in Hungary for every child. We have a duty to do everything we can to avoid these crimes in the future. We, too, who are on the legislative side, have the task and the task of the police, as well as the prosecution, the guardians, the prison administrators, to avoid them in all their forms. So the bill itself is good, to be supported and supported. We consider it a little small, and we need to tackle domestic violence in more areas and to act with even more stringent means. What else would I like to draw attention to here? Here, in general, not only in relation to relatives, but in the case of women's protection, lex Kaleta, recommended by Jobbik, which would be to make public the person of pedophile offenders, which would be very important, and which would also help preventative treatment and, if necessary, the use of appropriate drugs and coercion in relation to sex offenders, as data clearly show that in a European country where this was introduced to sex offenders, the decline is reduced to less than 3 per cent in those for whom these medicines have been used. The repeat of the sexual crime was less than 3 percent, while the general, to whom it was not applied, was above 40 percent of the sex offenders. I think it's our responsibility to take this to the lowest possible level. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-09-21-223	Thank you. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-224	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it is a fact that violent crimes against a serious person who has been harmed by family deviance are increasing as the family deviance spreads more and more. It is therefore important to give even more protection to victims of these crimes. It is essential that we be able to curb the crimes committed to the harm of relatives. As a Christian Democrat, I think it is important to be committed to the post-care of victims of crimes against relatives, especially those of children and minors. Thank you, therefore, for the Government's action in this regard. Ladies and Gentlemen, A comprehensive government review of the Győr double child murder case was launched on the basis of which T/10953 was submitted. Bill No. 1. In particular, the bill envisaged tightening the regulation of conditional release. The amendment would make it absolutely impossible to grant conditional leave to the perpetrator who committed the most serious crimes, such as manslaughter, kidnapping or acts of terrorism, which violate human life or physical integrity. Relatively, it would be impossible to grant conditional leave to offenders who have committed a serious criminal offence against a person under threat of imprisonment for at least eight years to harm their relatives. Ladies and Gentlemen, If, in the case of violent crimes against a serious person resulting in a relative exclusion, conditional release would nevertheless be allowed by the court, it would be mandatory to impose protective supervision on the basis of the bill at the same time and it would also be compulsory to lay down specific rules of conduct for the protection of victims, in addition to monitoring the movements of the sentenced person by technical means. These provisions would also apply in the event of the suspension of imprisonment for violent crimes against a serious person. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill extends the circle of persons for whom separation can be ordered as a separate code of conduct. In addition to the above, the bill makes it clear that the property intended to be used for the life-style residence of the person concerned by the removal should be protected regardless of his legal status, i.e. regardless of the ownership or ownership situation. If the perpetrator is a juvenile, the primary aim of the punishment is not retaliation, but the development of the juvenile in the right direction, so the bill provides for a lighter regulation for him. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill expands the list of cases in which the prosecutor's office is obliged to initiate compulsory institutional treatment provided for in the Health Act. This amendment would also make it compulsory to initiate an institutional treatment even if the criminality of a pathologically mentally ill perpetrator of a violent crime against a person is not excluded and a penalty or measure is therefore imposed on the defendant. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, Christian Democrats support T/10953. The above amendment to Law C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, the 2013 CCXL on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of offences. in the field of law and the annual CLIV on health. Executes the law. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-225	Thank you. I give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I don't want to repeat what points the government is changing with this law, but I'm going to tell you what this is all about. The reason for this proposal is the tragedy that occurred in Győr, committed by a father on conditional leave from prison to harm his own sweet and foster child. The man strangled his 13-year-old foster daughter and his 10-year-old son, and the next morning after he had supplied his youngest child, he wanted to slit his wrists first in the bathroom of the building, but after he failed, he hung himself. As a result of the assault, the unsub died. The man was in prison because, in 2016, he hit his sleeping spouse over the head with a hammer, and then he cut the defensive victim several times with a scalpel on his face, neck, and chest. The psychic found that the defendant's ability to set off at the time of the crime was severely limited at the time of the crime. The institution of conditional leave was already under attack by Fidesz, demanding immediate tightening. The Ministry of Justice reviewed the legal institution and, on the basis of this, selected the facts where the perpetrator deliberately wanted to cause death, in these cases, the possibility of conditional leave will be excluded. [[19.30]] The legal institution of conditional freedom has a dual purpose: on the one hand, it makes the sentenced person highly interested in good conduct in the prison, as in the event of a violation, he may lose his parole. The other goal is to deter a convicted person on conditional leave from committing another crime, which would mean that the sentence should be resumed immediately. If the possibility of conditional release is not excluded, the earliest time is after two thirds of the sentence and three quarters of the sentence in the event of a relapse. The range of offences identified by the proposal may even justify its conditional exclusion. Only the basic case of manslaughter can be an exception, which includes the most diverse situations. From purpose one, he wants to die until possible intent, not necessarily want him to die, but he has come to terms with the possibility, textbook example of getting the drunk man out of the house, who will eventually get cold because of the cold night and lose his life to the end. There will also be a lot of problems in the court's assessment of a single case as a homicide or as a fatal assault, since in the former, the possibility of parole will be excluded, while in the other case it will not. When we look at the last few years, we have seen many times that there is some very, very terrible domestic violence, where the mother or even children and children lose their lives. In many cases, we talk about this because, in most cases, crime is at the expense of women and children. And politics reacts to that, which is probably right, and it has to respond. But we're not consistent, so let's look inside. We should not respond in one case and then amend laws, but look at what is happening, what we are talking about and how we can act more effectively to prevent them from happening. Allow me, fellow Members, to give another example of why this is not okay. I'm talking about russian Bernadett. A six - childed mother, grandmother, almost beaten to death by her boyfriend in November 2019 in Bujak, a protected military object, a former lieutenant colonel. The only reason he didn't do it is because he got caught. On 26 August 2020, there would have been a civil trial at the Miskolc Tribunal at 10 a.m., where the perpetrator sued the victim for defamation, because he posted the photos, wrote down, named who the perpetrator was, and got a lot of publicity. Several media reported on it, and everyone in Hungary could get to know the perpetrator himself. What's shocking about this case is that not a year has passed, the victim was supposed to appear in court. The unsub hasn't even been charged. Do you understand? ! Who almost beat the hell out of a six-year-old mother, a grandmother, we haven't even gotten to the point of being charged for defamation... maybe defamation is a lesser crime than almost being beaten to death. They only understand this maladministration; it is very wrong. And I think that legislation should not be immediately reacting to an example, but should intervene in a complex way. I understand this amendment of the law, and it is necessary, but you always ask the question, if you look at the circle that, according to point 4 of the Health Act, mandatory psychiatric treatment can be initiated more widely than before, who will do it. Will there be suitable professionals? Will the supply system be ready for it? That's what we're always asking, is that when the law dictates such things, the signalling system, the system that should be running this whole system, it's prepared for it. Will there be enough people to do this? Or are we gonna make laws again and nothing's gonna happen? In recent years, the Fidesz-KDNP government has made more restrictions, which, we say, is okay, because we really should not come here with such cases, and next week we will have to amend the law again, because another terrible tragedy is going to happen in Hungary; we have seen the past period. But somehow it doesn't work, and that's what we need to figure out. For some reason, there are no fewer cases, no fewer deaths, we won't come here in a month, and let's say that every week a woman dies of domestic violence, every month a child loses his life in domestic violence, and in most cases you know, you know the statistics, we've talked about it a million times in Parliament, because in most cases a very close relative, like in this example, is the father himself. Then something just doesn't work, something just doesn't work. Even though we are trying to tighten the laws, we should somehow deal with this whole situation differently, for some reason, as described in this amendment, that it can be a deterrent if we make more stringent laws. This is not what we see as a deterrent. Perhaps because, in other cases, we see the opposite, that we do not want to punish the person who is the perpetrator, but we still want to hurt him, victim error, so we call what we see, that perhaps it is not possible to beat it out of Hungarian heads. I really hope that someday there will be a law where we don't respond in one case and try to solve it, but we'll try to look at it completely complexly. I can see that Gyula Budai is shaking his head and Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: It's not that, Congresswoman.]] That is never the case when the opposition makes criticisms, we know that. I'm not even a lawyer, and I admit I'm not a lawyer, but it seems, Mr Secretary of State and Members, that we haven't been able to move forward in the past. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] I just told you, Congressman, there are no fewer cases. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes!]] In fact, we're telling you now, I'm sure you've read that during the epidemic, the number of domestic violence cases has increased by at least 30 percent. At least 30 percent! Thank God we didn't wake up every morning to see what brutal cases were presented. And then we don't even know how many cases in Hungary we don't know, we don't know, we don't see. I understand that we are talking about the fact that this man has already been arrested, released, and committed this brutal crime, and we would like to prevent this: that if someone has committed such a brutal crime, it will be very difficult for him to come out of prison, if he comes out, he will have very serious supervision, and there must be a system that can prevent it. I understand, Mr President, what we see is that for some reason, when we look at statistics, we cannot report better results. And that would be the goal of trying not to have any innocent people die just because someone came out of prison with their first way of killing their own family. I hope that at some point we will sit here in Parliament and report very big successes, and we will be able to say how many lives we have been able to save, because that is how much better the statistics have improved. I hope that this moment will come, and then we will say that we have actually done our job. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[19.40]]
u2020-09-21-227	Thank you. I give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There is a law before us, the essence of which is how we can try to protect victims who are actually abused by their loved ones. The exceptional situation is that this is a subject that is absolutely timely, current; it is now time for this House to address and talk about this. I say that it is an exceptional situation, because we have been discussing real estate and support for Fidesz Foundations here in recent months, how to transfer universities to private foundations, and how to dispose of property. So many, many, many things have happened that have not been linked to the epidemic or other important social issues. Now we finally have such a case, such a bill, which is such, which is important, which we need to talk about, which is a current subject, unfortunately. As the speakers before me have said, almost every month there is a case of violence within a family that stirs up all of us, and raises the question in society, and raises the question of what to do, what to do, how to do, how to act in a way that does not exist. Therefore, when the Ministry announced last December that a comprehensive investigation would be initiated in this case, I must admit that DK included this as one of the few government measures that we supported and considered to be good. It's very rare, but that's what it was like. There has been a lot of information in this debate, and I would not mention how many data, what data shows that it is, indeed, a current, important topic. Compared to this, we are here with a little bill, a three-page proposal, which I would not call the outcome of the comprehensive investigation, or if this was a comprehensive investigation, then the result was very, very modest. Because whether we consider the proposals contained in this specific proposal to be correct or not, we may agree that this cannot be called a complex package. A legislative amendment in two or three points will not solve this social problem, so the question of what and how to do with the social phenomenon that is and is increasing and what is worsening is certainly not an answer to that bill. Where are they, I respectfully ask the representatives of the government, where are the impact assessments, the package of proposals, the complex legislative proposals that would serve the complex handling of the whole problem? Where is this, and why are we talking about a one-and-a-half-page law, together with a justification, that we think of a three-page law to solve this problem? You won't, gentlemen, this. And even if, by the way, I think that the conditions for granting conditional leave may need to be tightened up, we had to look at it, and indeed there are points in the law that are absolutely forward-looking, positive, and to be supported, but to sit back and to think that we have solved this social problem with another Btk.-strength, we can't. It is a very big mistake, and we will not prove it in the future that there will still be such cases, and we will always find that once again there is no good law, we should touch things differently again. My other problem with this is that you are burdening the prison or other sub-schemes with an additional task that there is not a word about how they will be able to do this, and they will be able to provide any result of this. I understand that the government can order and implement this law in some way, but regardless of any calculation, impact assessment, I say again, without a proposal, to decide such a bill, such a serious bill on a serious subject, this cannot be done. To further list my criticisms, the proposal, for example, limits the power of judges to decide, narrows it down in many cases, while judges are the ones who may have the most information on these matters. Not me, not you, not the other Members sitting within the walls of this House, have all the information, but, in good case, the judges who make the decision. This proposal should be about how, if they make bad decisions or if they have inadequate information, they will get to them, how they can make informed decisions. The proposal addresses the fact that juveniles are also subject to such restrictions, while a completely different paragraph of the Btk. states that the punishments or measures imposed on minors would always aim to guide young people in the right direction. I do not think that excluding the possibility of granting conditional leave or severely restricting it is intended to guide young offenders in the right direction. It may be necessary to tighten up, I repeat, there may be a need for this type of solution, but the fact that it has not been considered how and how 16-year-olds will come out of this story under the influence of this law is certain. It's just that once again, the wallet's proposal was to tighten up and tighten up, because that's what society certainly likes, and that's when we're done. But no, dear MPs, no. I do not see it in the proposal, while Mr Secretary of State has said this in half, but I do not see that he has been in agreement, or that he has been in a genuine consultation with professional organisations, and that they support them, or have had comments, suggestions, additions. I have already said this in connection with other laws that it would be useful to include these proposals, because on the one hand, we would save this issue, but on the other hand, there might still be a proposal in which we could talk about whether one part or another should be considered. Let's assume so. All in all, my main criticism is that it is not a complex solution, it does not want the case, it contains a multitude of non-social and institutional changes, it has taken out two or three legal institutions that are now being modified, it is typically tightened up, and it thinks that it is then resolved. I say this sadly because, by the way, when we listened to the secretary in the Justice Committee in June, I think, or in July, and we talked about this topic, then the wallet was kind enough to send over the relevant material of the family task force, which is a 180-page, high-quality fact-finding material, I must say, with a number of findings or, if you like, problems that do not come back in this bill. Could it be in other legislative proposals, or how will it be used? Because it means that somewhere someone has done the work of how to deal with this problem in a complex way, but it doesn't appear in this law. Finally, two, let us say that I would like to put an international foot next to this criticism. One of you will not be surprised at this issue of the Istanbul Convention. Of course, I will talk about this every time, where this is possible, and the subject requires that the Istanbul Convention, among many things, defines in particular what legal provision should be made for the countries that are parties to it, in principle, on the subject of violence within the family, and is otherwise allowed to implement it by an international expert group. What happened to the history of the Istanbul Convention in Hungary? What happened was that a few months ago, a specific political declaration was adopted by the Fidesz majority of this House against and even against the Istanbul Convention for reasons that it was rejected. But here's another international dimension. There is also a Council of Europe Committee on Gender Equality and an overview of where the Member States of the organisation are in the process of combating violence against women. I'll tell you what they say about Hungary in this. Hungary is one of the nine Member States of the Council of Europe where the law does not yet guarantee that the prosecutor can prosecute all forms of domestic violence. In Hungary, the only intervention programme carried out by professional experts does not deal with men who commit violence. There is no such thing in Hungary. [[19.50]] Finally, the Commission found that Hungary is one of the two EU Member States on the 27th list where police officers do not receive specific regular professional training on how to act when they encounter signs of domestic violence or such complaints. By the way, this is also mentioned in the case of a certain family task force. One word as a hundred: the subject is important, the subject is good, it needs to be addressed, and many points of this proposal should be supported otherwise, but this, gentlemen, is not enough, so we will not solve the problem. Now, let me make it clear that in six months' time, in a year's time, we will be debating a similar package here again, because we will know that this will not provide a solution to what it was created for. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-09-21-229	Thank you. I give the floor to Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-230	Thank you very much for the floor. I am very pleased with the sentence that the Secretary of State has said that the government is proclaiming zero tolerance to domestic violence, which I am pleased to hear in this House. I have spoken many times about domestic violence, I was pleased with this bill, and I think this faction will support it, but as an opposition, I am obliged to say a few words that may not please you. And these are the following. My fellow Members have already said before me that we are thinking, seeing and experiencing serious problems in the care system. I know that real social consultation has preceded the completion of this bill, because I myself know someone who was at this meeting, so I can reassure my fellow Member that it really was. That's part of it, so the truth... [[Dr. Gyula Budai intervenes.]] I didn't understand that, but it's okay. The point is, therefore, that the supply system must be strengthened. I know there's a shortage of professionals, but I think we can do something about that. It could be done by, for example, paying a little more attention to those working in the social sphere, and otherwise, it would be very important to sensitize society to this problem. Unfortunately, many people are sweeping domestic violence under the rug, and there are only a few outstanding cases that the public is aware of, and of course, everyone is outraged, but we know very well that many cases remain hidden from the authorities. Why is it hidden? Victim error is customary in Hungary. I've heard a lot about women or sometimes gentlemen who have experienced various kinds of violence, that he certainly deserved it, that he was beaten for what he did, that he was so beaten; but, yes, unfortunately. We are going to engage in heated debates because we believe and my position is that there is no way to do something in return, because if you cannot live with someone, then that relationship can be terminated. However, much more serious is what Csaba Gyüre talked about, the abuse of children. Although it is a separate legal matter to endanger and abuse a minor, it remains hidden, since we do not like to talk about it. I'm offended when I say domestic violence, because it's not family, it's interrelationship, but I think it's violence against parents, and it's not just a relationship, it's a family, and it's not just between husband and wife, it's not just a scene or a case like that, it's also between other family members. We believe that professionals are so overwhelmed, and, as I have already said, they have low wages, that they all weaken the system. The system of child protection, the functioning of guardianship, the exercise of supervised contacts should be reviewed. I myself know someone who has experienced such violence or, unfortunately, I know others whose children have been abused either by the mother or by the father, if they can be called sweet. Unfortunately, this happens, and we do see that there are a lot of errors in the system: procedures, skeptical detectives, those who record the report. Of course, of course, they say that anyone can say anything until they're sure they're telling the truth, you can't accuse anyone, we understand that, but we've seen serious problems in the attitude. I do not know, for example, that it is common for you to know that if the suspected perpetrator is a man committed against the child, such as abuse or such abuse, it is still often men who investigate these children; it is well known that they cannot open up because of the man who committed it against them. In addition, there are a lot of civil society organisations that deal with similar things: they provide advice, they do legal protection work, they contact us with legislative proposals, they also act with training professionals and their information publications aimed at a wider population; I think it is very important to support these organisations. I have said this many times, but it is also true that it would be very good if so-called social advertisements were about this, so that there is help, dare the victim to turn to the authorities. Many are held captive by the perpetrators for years, and they are not allowed out of the apartment and so on, so there are quite amazing cases. I think it would be very important for young people to start mental health, social inclusion programmes, and we should be talking about these things at school. We also believe that it is important to establish a research programme for domestic violence. It is important to know the reasons for the violence, for in many cases the perpetrator was a victim, or suffered domestic abuse, or grew up seeing it and, unfortunately, following a very bad pattern. Perhaps, even in the days of our grandfathers or great - great - great - grandfathers, it was often accepted that the husband regularly abused his wife and children, perhaps even earlier. Fortunately, we are now so enlightened that most of us condemn it. We find it very offensive that, in general, the person who has been abused should flee and leave his home, and the abuser will continue to live or continue to do so in the case of the next victim. So I would ask my fellow members of the Government and members of the Government to find open ears to those sentences that might try to highlight the mistakes or shortcomings that the government and the governing parties are hoping to know, and I would like to read more similar amendments, a resolution proposal or a law amendment or something like that, which will take further steps to reduce this domestic violence as much as possible. I hope that someday I will live in a country where this act will be rare, and we will be very happy that we have achieved this. So please consider what the opposition is saying, and do not always consider it a political game, because it is not a question of party politics that we condemn domestic violence. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-21-231	Thank you, Congresswoman. We have come to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Varga-Damm Andrea.
u2020-09-21-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to welcome you to the autumn 2020 session, because it is our first meeting, and it is our first meeting. It is very sad when a government has to present a package of laws of this kind, because this means that there are serious, serious problems in society, for which people always want legislation to be done at first, because they always expect the government and Parliament to solve their problems, but we have to say, although I welcome the proposal for this legislation, that we will never solve these issues with laws. [[20.00]] The T/10953. Legislative bill No 1 aims at preventing criminal offences against relatives by extending the criminal prosecution measures for the most serious crimes to date and limiting the possibility of granting conditional leave; and it makes a very important institutional extension, including psychiatric examination and increased involvement of psychiatrists in determining the legal disadvantages of offenders and their treatment. A report was prepared for the government to prevent crimes against relatives. I think this is the 180 pages that our fellow Member László Sebian-Petrovsk talked about. However, I have to say that this proposal represents about 1 percent of the 180-page work, so there is about 99 percent left that requires the government to carry out tasks. But as long as we live, we hope, in this cycle, that the remaining 99 percent of the proposals will come before the House, or that the government will solve these tasks, because there is a very small part of these 180 pages about the possibility that legislative proposals could be resolved. To add a little to the professional part of this proposal: it excludes conditional release for the most serious crimes and gives judges a more extensive criminality to exclude offenders who have committed violent crimes from the benefit of conditional leave. In fact, if you have been granted conditional leave, you can use the institution of patronage supervision or detention using this electronic structure. If you receive a suspended sentence, you can also have restraining and protective custody. However, it is also a fact, which is included in the explanatory statement, if a person is already receiving a suspended sentence, there is a good chance that he has not committed such a serious violent crime to harm his relative. I must say, however, that it is very easy for us to say that someone is under protective supervision. There are very few patrons. I have several lawyers in this room, who know very well that it is very difficult to carry out patronage supervision effectively and effectively today, because they have a very small number. It would be very good if, somehow, the judicial government tried to develop a career opportunity with a wage that more people wanted to practice this profession, because it is a very nice profession, because a lost, lost person should be brought back to a perfectly normal way of life, which, I think, is a very nice task. What is a very serious novelty is the question of psychiatric treatment, the D.A. is obliged to initiate psychiatric examination more widely and mandatory psychiatric treatment. This is a very serious question, isn't it? There are many times when a criminal act is committed in a psychic state where experts find that it couldn't see the consequences of its actions. So, of course, his punishment will soon be less, but in this way he is actually punishing the victims. And it is a very serious provision of this proposal that psychiatric treatment is indeed necessary to replace prison sentences or prison sentences that are not due, since it is not possible to return him, such a person, to society unchanged. In addition to the conditional exclusion of non-life crimes, the proposal also excludes conditional release in serious cases involving at least eight years of threat to the harm of relatives. This is a very serious matter, a huge step forward, because I really do not want to offend any judge, but in practice we see that they are not really effective and give serious years of prevention to those who commit such crimes. The proposal extends the circle of relatives compared to the terminology of their relatives in civil law. This is very right, as families live together in a much larger number, much more diverse than their families in civil law. Keeping away applies not only to the victim but also to family members. That's a very fair and serious rule. It determines the place of residence, irrespective of ownership, when it determines the distance. This is extremely important because many people have been able to escape from the implementation of the restraining order by saying that, but please, it is my property and you can have it, you can use it, civil law rules create this. In order for him to really be excluded, it was indeed necessary to give up fully taking into account the ownership, and it is determined by the actual place of residence and the actual use. The sighting of the child under supervision is a very old shortage. Indeed, as my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre said during the double murder in Győr, the mother even added to the relationship, and in fact there was a relatively wide examination that allowed children and the father to meet. If there had been such a provision, it would have made no difference what the mother said, since the parent tries to be in good faith and only to fulfill the child's wish, even though the child cannot assess the processes that took place in the father, and indeed the relationship will be of quality and not the consequence. In such cases, the office must be smarter, and the office must prevent such consequences from meeting with supervision. Conditional decisions give the judge a wide range of information rights in addition to the involvement of professionals. This, I must say, is the best part of this proposal, because we have been saying for many years that the judge has not been prepared enough to assess microsocial relations in such a way that he will impose precisely the penalty and to the extent that he can represent both prevention and retaliation together. It is necessary to give judges professionals and a system of institutions who help them to make a really good decision in such situations. That really is a XXI. 100th-century proposal. There is a great deal of progress, however, with this proposal, but I must say that these conditions, which this proposal is trying to give us now, so to speak, with legal consequences, are very long psychic processes. When we saw such a serious act as Győr's double child murder, it was the final stage of a very long, psychic process. You have to say it. and I was very pleased that Mr Secretary of State said that with this proposal, the social problems that bring families to this point will not be solved. That is absolutely correct, and I think everyone knows that, it's an attempt to tell society that there will be far more serious consequences, in case there are some people who are holding themselves back from carrying out serious acts of this kind. I must say, however, that we are late. In 2011-12, the EU carried out a 42 000 sample of the EU survey on the development of domestic violence in the 27 EU Member States, including Hungary. We learned about this study in 13, I think it could have been a little more effective, rhythmic, and preventative since 13, so that the government could begin its tasks in lawmaking and in the establishment of the institutional system. Allow me to give you some data. He kills at least three women a month in Hungary. The police, interestingly enough, are writing half of the statistics. One in five women grew up in a family where the father beat the mother; it's a huge deal. 22 percent of violence against women is committed by a partner, and more than half of women are murdered by their partners, but 76 percent by family members. That's a great number. So we're talking about all the murdered women, over 50 percent of your partner, 76 percent of your family. That's a great number. [[20.10]] This means that in Hungary there is such a serious psychic problem in domestic life, that families are burdened with problems and conflicts at such a level that I am glad that we have a Minister of Family Affairs from today: because I think his first task is to create all opportunities, to invent at government level, to resolve domestic tensions, because these are terrible numbers. Where the woman kills the husband, 80 percent of the woman abused me for a long time was a very big number. 23 percent of women have experienced physical violence. Well, 23 percent of women mean that 900,000 women have experienced physical violence, while statistics show that there are 6,000 such crimes a year. There were 900,000 women, and we know about 6,000. What a vision! It's a great vision. I would like to do so, and I do not better analyse this proposal from a legal point of view, because more people have done it in front of me, but rather I would like to point out that this is actually the first step in the work. We have to see that, and we have to admit, the frustration of our society is not an accidental consequence. What do people see in political life? Arrogance, hurting the other, humiliation of the other, and this is only a phenomenon radiating from the highest social group to society. What do we see at a lower level, in public administration, in companies? They tend to treat the worker below them in the hierarchy. Without consequences, you can speak to each other in the workplace by embarrassing each other. Let us look at unfair social relations that are extremely widespread. Consider, for example, when a man works well, he has a career opportunity at work, and what do you always see? That it's not the best worker who gets up the stairs, it's the one who wants to please his boss and flatter him. What a frustration, isn't it? What people live in society, they all take it home to the family, that's where it hits! Let me say, therefore, that today in Hungary, unfair public life, whether you like it or not, begins with the highest actors of public life, that it does not deserve it, but is interested in the fact that it is not the performance, but the business, that it is not the best, but who can get the most in protection; as the children get into school, they have to live from the moment that they do not progress on the basis of truth and not merit, everyone brings it home to the family. So we have to say that we can create laws, we can shout that we are in a bad situation and that we have bad statistics, and we have to do something about it, if we try to make a society fair, or we add ourselves to it, so that it is just, we don't do it ourselves. We are scraping the surface now, but we all know that the root of the problem is very, very deep, and as Members of Parliament, we could do a great deal to start pulling frustration out of society and instead to send out love, understanding and good feeling. This is a very big job, but let me say that neither the parties to government nor the opposition can do this alone. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-09-21-233	Thank you. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-234	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As I understand it, in this issue of law, we are broadly in agreement with the goals, but at the same time there are differences and there are things that you have formulated here that are worth responding to, because we are working together for a lot of things. I think that the prevention of relationship violence, the help of victims, by the way, is the Btk. tightening up, or what we are talking about here, tightening up parole, it could, or it could enjoy, joint support here in Parliament, and I am very happy about that. I would like to say that I would like to reject Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who, in the name of love, concluded her words, that she is saying generalizations about the people working in the administration that there is constant humiliation, that there is constant contempt. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] That the administrative authorities are, by the way, constantly treating their subordinates as you put it. I don't think that's the case (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea interrupts.) I worked in the administration, I didn't see that. I would like to say to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély that you did not support the reality of the violence in relations and that we should tighten it up and not refer to an ideologically charged convention, but we should look at the common goal that we do... Everyone here refers to various statistics, someone does not believe police statistics, someone does not believe other statistics. I don't think it's about statistics here. As long as this statistic is even one, we have a job to do, and we have a job to do together. Let's not throw numbers at each other. I would say to Mr Sebian-Petrovsk: the Council of Europe has 47 members, so if we are in 25th place, that is the strong middle field [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski: Last! Last one!]] So there's no problem with that, but there's not 27 Member States. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, that you did not support all Btk tightening, but when it was a ban on uniformed crime in 2011 [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] or when, by the way, we have tightened parole in 2013, since in the case of repeat criminals, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] if the sentence was at least two years, it could not be (the president bell rings). "So we have tightened it even then; it is false to me that he is accountable to us." Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-235	For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-236	Congressman, maybe we shouldn't argue. We're not arguing, no one wants us to sit here and stop these cases. Of course, of course. Seriously, sometimes the reason we don't vote for a law is because you hide it in a salad law. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's right!]] that we might be able to vote on two things, and we would very much like to vote on them, but in addition, another hundred simply cannot be voted on; this has happened quite often in recent times. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] But when we talk about domestic violence, I can't say that we're talking about domestic violence. [[Krisztina Hohn: That's right!]] Non-relationship violence, when we are talking about it, understand it, and we are always arguing about it here, the debate between the opposition and the ruling party is that this cannot be projected in one case, this should be seen in a complex way. Because as long as the signal system is... and it's not just that there are enough psychologists or no psychiatrists or how the police, the court, the social worker... I'm sorry, I'm not a lawyer in this case in Győr, and Gyula Budai might have corrected this man even if he had been on leave on parole, because he didn't kill his wife, he didn't kill his children, he would have been released from prison, and anyway, if this law had been alive then, this case would have happened. What we should be looking at is how to make such laws, and I agree with Andrea Varga-Damm on that, that we can bring them every week, that we will not be able to change the way society looks at them. What my fellow Member Krisztina Hohn was talking about is, as long as people themselves have in their minds that the woman is beaten, counting the money, you know what I'm talking about, don't you? We will not be able to change this kind of mentality, or until the neighbours themselves or anyone closes down, as I said, how many cases will not be revealed in Hungary, which is only within the fence or within the four walls; until we can move forward in this direction. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We make laws here every week in vain (The President rings the bell.) We won't be able to succeed. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-09-21-237	I will give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for two minutes.
u2020-09-21-238	Thank you for the floor. There is still time left in the cycle to see if our fellow Member Lőrinc Nacsa will learn to interpret the text. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] We're rooting for him. I would rather expect, than hate and contradiction, that, for example, our male society, leading male politicians, have videos of you not hurting your child, hurting your mate. We're always talking about making videos where we tell the victims that there's help. No! That's not enough! There must be a video of men, serious, well-known, recognized men saying that no, that is not a solution to anything. [[20.20]] If you have problems, if you have psychological problems, if you have failures, if you have frustration, if you have sexual problems, then you have help, and violence is not the answer. Don't hurt the one who loves you. I imagine that the video that could be made and shown to people on public service channels is coming out in front of my eyes, because society is an extremely powerful media user. With these words, sentences, and messages, we could achieve enormous results. Not with the laws, even if we're going to vote for that, of course, but it's not going to be enough! And let us not talk about the fact that social groups that may have committed such acts do not even know what laws there are, do not read newspapers, do not see that Parliament has dealt with this issue, and there the Members have their position. Unfortunately, our debates, our conversations we're having here, perhaps 1% of society knows. We must get out of the walls of this House and go there among the people so that such phenomena, such problems, can be eliminated. We have to ask people not to do that. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-21-239	Ladies and gentlemen, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz.
u2020-09-21-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Before my original speech, allow me to react very briefly to two things. Several of the benches on the left mentioned the concept of violence and domestic violence. I've seen that I apologize to some of you, but I have to say that your knowledge and your understanding of these two concepts are wrong. Because domestic violence is a narrower concept. It is not a coincidence that the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian laws, Btk., are not meant to be domestic violence, but to be a relationship violence, because there were many more people who were spouses and partners, who are not, by the way, a classic family anymore. So I think it's very right that we're not talking about domestic violence in the Btk., but about a wider circle, about relationship violence. The other thing is that with what Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned, that we have to take the lead, we have to set an example, we have to go out among the people, I completely agree. But is this credible from a number of Members of Parliament? I'm asking. Because when you see children, adults, everyone, through the Internet or television, not live, but through the news, that there are Members who do not follow the rules, who yell at Parliament's meetings, who are rallying, who refuse to do the work, who leave, who do the work, then I think that this is not a good example. I agree that everyone should set an example, and I think that this would be for everyone to follow. I'm glad to hear that sometimes from the benches on the left. I ask that, if that is your opinion, you do so and set an example. We were talking about why this law wasn't more extensive. It is deliberately its concept, and I think that every government and Parliament should aim to make the laws themselves simple, clear, and not just lawyers and lawyers can understand it, but to understand it by every Hungarian citizen, even by an elementary school student. That's the goal. And then there are the regulations, the details of the regulations can be very precise, very precise. This is how a transparent system can be built, which can also provide flexibility, because if something needs to be changed, it is not necessarily necessary to run through the legislative mechanism of the Parliament, but can be implemented after a much faster socio-professional consultation. As far as the bill is concerned: it is not only at the level of words, but also at the level of action, that the Fidesz-KDNP faction association and the Hungarian government consider the protection of families, women and children to be a priority. At the same time, particular attention will be paid to victims of crime, their rights, the expansion of the range of victim support, and the promotion of interest. In order to achieve all these objectives, we will create victim support centres across the country, and with this fact, this method, this institutional network, we will help the lives of victims or victims not to be in a situation where they do not know where they can expect help from. So victim support is a very important and high priority, practically within the entire government, and the Ministry of Justice also prioritises it as a top priority, as far as I can see. In addition, there is a legislative work that can guarantee victim support, not in nature, but by tightening up and amending legislation. When my fellow left-wing Members say that this is not enough, it must be said that this is the subject here, now there is an amendment to this law. In addition, there are numerous parallel victim support programmes, training, that guarantee the help of victims. With the development of the network of victim support centres, these services will be available in all counties within five years. This year 600 million HUF is available to maintain and increase their capacity in Budapest, Miskolc, Szombathely and Pécs victim support center. The aim is to create an institution in every county in the future. Developing centres is a priority because we feel it is our moral duty to help those in need, and help is most effective if it is done locally. This is what Andrea Varga-Damm agreed with, and the honourable Member said that we should go out with the people. I don't know if you're here now, because you're covered by the pulpit; you're not here, Mr Secretary, and I'm sorry you're no longer listening to the debate. We're here in Parliament because we represent people. I represent Rákosmente and part of Kőbánya, and my fellow Members also represent their own district. We're among the people. We are there, we know their opinions, and we ask their opinions. In person, in forums, in reception classes, and on the street, on the bus, everywhere. And let us not forget that there is also a very important instrument that you are always blaming, the national consultation. During national consultations, we always directly ask people's views on very important issues that affect everyone. Another objective is to ensure that a system is in place in which the authority acts as an active actor in support of victims. The authorities have also been mentioned. It is not true that authorities are not trained to deal with child or female victims. There is also a very serious programme going on within the police, a very serious programme is also being carried out in relation to the various co-governments. [[20.30]] It's really a break-up with the past, it wasn't much like that before. The government has put a great deal of emphasis on this in the last decade. We will continue to count on the cooperation of civil and ecclesiastical partners, both ourselves and the government, because these organisations are able to do this assistance much more flexibly as a result of their own operation. The state must respond to domestic violence in all cases. He must offer various kinds of help to make the victims feel that they are not alone, that they can count on the community, that they can count on the country. The state has been operating the victim support system with its civil and ecclesiastical partners for many years. Victims of acts of violence receive, among other things, legal, psychological, financial support and shelters. It is also important to draw attention to the fact that everyone can find out where they can get help closest to their place of residence, at the emergency number 06-80-225-225 and on the vansegitseg.hu website. At the same time, it is also the responsibility and duty of government agencies everywhere to deal with forms of assistance. There is therefore also a need to review legislation in order to combat contact violence and strengthen the system of victim protection. This is why the Ministry of Justice has previously initiated a tightening of the rules on conditional release, a review of the case law on anti-life crimes and a modification of the regulation of the child protection signalling system. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So we don't claim that everything is good and perfect. The world is changing. There are more and more problems in the world's societies. We must respond immediately to any change that can help people. This is what is happening now by submitting this law and adopting it as we hope. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The crimes committed to the harm of relatives, which are extremely serious, against life and other crimes which seriously harm or threaten life and physical integrity, are cruel and terrible tragedies in which the legislator, our Members of Parliament, is obliged to examine how the causes leading to tragedies can be prevented and ruled out. The Győr double child murder, mentioned several times today, was probably committed by the father on conditional leave. It is suspected that this legal institution may not function properly within the system of justice. Minister Judit Varga immediately initiated a comprehensive government inquiry following the case, which resulted in a report that we have already discussed in the debate today under which the Ministry of Justice has the task of reviewing the regulation of conditional release and the possible tightening of the criminal code and other legislation. This task of the wallet, as we can see, has been fully fulfilled, thanks also to the Secretary of State, Pál Völner. This is how the bill before us was presented. I would also like to highlight and emphasise the foreign example mentioned by Dr. Gyula Budai, lead speaker at Fidesz, that the perpetrators of the stabbing attacks in November 2019 and February 2020 in London were also convicted on parole. Therefore, the British Government has initiated a tightening of the rule of law and enforcement on perpetrators of terrorist offences. We can see, therefore, that moving towards a stricter criminal policy in Europe is not an alien at all. The bill on the House's table introduces criminal law solutions which, taking into account the principle of graduality, exclude the emergence of emergencies by a proportionate response depending on the degree of vulnerability. So the legislator, that is, we Parliament, must deal with a situation in which the social political role of the already mentioned legal institution and the question of social justice confront each other. This is now, ladies and gentlemen, our job, to build faith together in order to restore people's sense of justice. In Hungary, perpetrators are not rewarded, but punished. In the light of this, I would also like to commend to my fellow left-wing Members that the legislative amendment tabled will be adopted in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-09-21-241	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. Mr György Szilágyi said that we would continue to work, and that Jobbik's representative could speak. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-242	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was inspired by Mónika Dunai's speech to comment, because my problem is that we can agree with the congresswoman that domestic violence has several forms: it can be physical, it can be psychological, it can be even children's harm. [[Mónika Dunai: That's right, that's right.]] I would have expected from the congresswoman, since there are no two Fidesz women standing up and apologizing, because you are a Member of the Parliament of Rákosmente, and the recent violent scandal within a very serious family is linked to a former colleague, Tivadar Fohsz, who was the deputy mayor of Rákosmente. This gentleman committed a very serious crime against his own foster daughter, let's say. He is currently a member of the Fidesz, and you have not excluded him from their ranks, and he is even present in the public life of Fidesz at such a level that he is, for example, a member of the Board of the Rákoskert Church Foundation. I suppose Congresswoman could have raised her word against the fact that such a man should not be a member of the board in the construction of the building and church designed by Imre Makovecz. In fact, Congresswoman could have raised her voice on the fact that this gentleman, who, once again, is a member of Fidesz, should not, on the basis of the vote of the Balatonkeresztúr representative body, be the curatorial chairman of the Crossurias Foundation for the strengthening of relations between citizens in the settlements of Keresztúr. I believe that if we condemn domestic violence, any form of violence, and even if they do so to harm children, then whatever party he is, whatever colorful political attitude he is, he should be condemned. So I would have expected more from the congresswoman. One is that you are separated from Tivadar Fohsz in connection with the trial of this law, apologizing that such a man may still be in your ranks to this day, and still has not been ruled out, and would have told us here, as he said, that there can be no punishment for the various crimes, that you are doing everything you can to exclude Tivadar Fohsz from the ranks of Fidesz, that you are doing everything you can to exclude Tivadar Fohsz from the curatorium of the construction of a Makovecz church, and as the representative of the Parliament of Rákosmente, you consider it outrageous to participate in the Foundation of the Crosssurers, Tivadar Fohsz. This is where we should start, we should separate, we should condemn the activities of these people, then perhaps the public can see that everyone here, regardless of party affiliation, is serious about the fact that neither Gábor Kaleta nor Tivadar Fohsz can poison Hungary's air and poison the political communities of which they are members. Such people must be eliminated immediately, not hidden, not protected, not covered, but immediately and mercilessly killed, for these people are ruining families. This man I'm talking about has ruined a young girl's life, it can be said that perhaps his whole life, because the deep grievances and the deep tracks that Tivadar Fohsz caused his foster daughter will never go away with him. [[20.40]] As a woman and as a Member of the Parliament of Rákosmente, I think that would be expected of you. As a Member of the Parliament of Jobbik, who also started in Rákosmenten and also represents the cancer people, I am completely disinheriting him from this man, and I hope that he will receive his punishment. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-09-21-243	Mónika Dunai, Member, Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-244	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I see you already know what the outcome of the police investigation will be. We don't know that today, but what you just said was that these things were done by the deputy mayor. I have two very important things to say. One is that everyone knows, because it is not certain that everyone has followed the events, that the police will continue to investigate, indeed with such accusations, which my fellow Member has made. So no charges are yet filed in this case. If the authorities think that we have no say in this, that they will prosecute and condemn the deputy mayor in the end, it is perfectly natural for him to bear the consequences, all the consequences. At the moment, we are not yet here, against you, who already knew that this was true, I say we wait for him to be prosecuted, or what the court will say in the end, whether he condemns him or not. And to say that there is a contradiction between my words or not, I say that there is no, because when I said that both I and Fidesz thought that all victims should be protected and that all sinners should be punished, that includes politicians and everyone. So if someone is committing a crime, whether it's a Member of Parliament or a Deputy Mayor or a Baker, it doesn't matter, they have to face justice in the same way. Let's wait and see what happens, and we're going to distance ourselves from it. Of course, we will never stand up or stand up for a convicted man. Once again, we're against all kinds of violence, me and Fidesz. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-09-21-245	Congressman György Szilágyi asked for a two-minute speech. Of course, you will be given this opportunity, but I respectfully draw your attention to the position entrusted to me, and I am obliged to draw your attention to the fact that this debate is not, in itself, about a specific case, but about the negotiation of the law. [[Dr. Gyula Budai intervenes. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Examples to bring up!]] So I will give the floor to the Member, and then, with respect, I would like to ask you to discuss the law that has been tabled. Congressman Szilágyi, please.
u2020-09-21-246	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Yes, it is not about specific cases; it is only through concrete cases that we can show how Members are concerned, how the representatives of Fidesz are about a case, what they say here and what is really going on. Congresswoman, I think you've done nothing but protect a man from whom you should distance yourself. That's what they've been doing about this man for years, by the way. This man was a deputy mayor, and he didn't leave for nothing, because you knew you couldn't run for office, you knew exactly what accusations were made about this man, and you knew exactly that he was impounded and had been searched for by the police and tried to protect this man; you are protecting him now. That's enough for me, Congresswoman, if you once stand up and tell me that if these accusations are true and are not trying to hide behind the presumption of innocence, then you absolutely condemn this gentleman. [[Mónika Dunai: That's what I said!]] [[Mónika Dunai: That's what I said!]] And he's doing everything he can to get these people out of his public life. That would be enough for me for now (Mónika Duna: That's what I said!) And it would be enough if Fidesz didn't protect these criminals. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's not protecting him!]] I could also say that if you didn't defend such monsters, because we're dealing with a monster here, in all likelihood, who, I hope, will be punished for what you've done. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-09-21-247	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak, honourable Members? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Völner if he'd like to reflect. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-09-21-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Several of my fellow Members supported the proposal, thank you for that, and I would ask that you do so in the vote as well. I'd like to reflect on a few points. According to Csaba Gyüre, Hungarian criminal law is not strict enough. We can say that we have one of the strictest criminal codes in Europe. That you're not successful enough? I would just like to give you one or two statistics, because my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also spoke of all kinds of increases. The number of homicides fell from 261 to 141 between 2013 and 19 for example. So anyone who visualizes the rise of violent crime in Hungary is mistaken according to statistics. For example, the number of relapsers decreased from 6400 to 3500 between 2017 and 2019. I believe that this is also a unique figure in Europe. There are some excuses about why we're talking about relationship violence. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also mentioned the name of Bernadett Russian. If we were to talk about non-relationship violence, it would not be possible to include his case in this criminal category either, since there was no family legal relationship there. It can therefore be seen that the procedure could not be dealt with more strictly if this Parliament had not created this fact. Various points have been raised, such as my fellow Member László Sebian-Petrovsk lacked various impact assessments and comprehensive investigations, while at the same time saying that this bill came to the House late. I think, on the one hand, we can protect the fact that he was able to negotiate with all sorts of professional organizations. In the expozee itself, I referred to the fact that it was given an opinion either on the part of the prosecutor's office or on the part of the court, but on the whole subject, there is a family law working group that operates continuously in the thematic working groups, within the human rights working group, where all the proposals have been made by the Helsinki Commission, through the NANE, through the Pattenten, and the Mothers for the Children civil group, and not only on this subject, but from the prevention to the rules of distance, on all kinds of issues, and this is still being dealt with by the working group. But I could also say that we have brought the rules for restraining people before this House in the spring, because this was an even more urgent issue, and we have tightened up and better guaranteed the rights of the victims or the protection of potential victims. So it's not over, they keep coming to the House. It must be brought in precisely because we cannot be delayed, so we cannot cause yet another repeat of the crime or a case for which we might feel responsible in the event of a delay. But, as said in the introduction, practically whatever legislation we make, whatever laws we make, it will certainly not protect us against psychopaths in the future. There can always be cases that cannot be prevented or excluded by any legislation, and the occurrence of a deranged state of mind cannot be prevented by virtually no prevention. It was exactly said to be the Btk. reduced in 2013. Consider the introduction of the three plagues. If one considers this to be a relief... or the introduction of actual life imprisonment or the introduction of a mandatory medium, all of these have been aimed at tightening up, they have practically served to tighten it up. By the way, there have been groups of perpetrators that have been excluded from conditional release, practically the multiple relapsers who have served their sentence in prison or who have not entered the bv in time. Therefore, it is not true that this was such an unlimited opportunity in the past. [[20.50]] The problem with exactly the Russian Bernadett was that he was brought before the court in a defamation case. My fellow Member, Bangóné, said that he is not a lawyer, but he is just a small thing: there is no investigation in such a case, there is no compilation of indictments, but the procedure of proof itself begins in the court, so there is no preparatory period. On the other hand, the investigative section and the indictment: in order for that charge to be settled, they really should condemn the perpetrator, it must be preceded by a very thorough work and very thorough evidence. That is when time can be called to account for the passing of time, but at the same time it may serve to achieve results. Criminal law is a much more complex area than so many judgments on the actions of the authorities acting in them. On the other hand, how important or not this bill itself is, I would ask my fellow Member, Bangóné, to have a word with Tamás Harangozó, because before today's agenda he said that there is not one important bill before this House today, and we are talking about nothing, although we can say that Parliament is meeting. So if a fellow Member is of the opinion that this bill is not important and that does not make sense and why we are meeting, then you are very mistaken. Enlighten each other at least on this issue, or we can only talk about an empty political squabbling instead of such a substantive debate. For example, if my fellow Member György Szilágyi had jumped the intellectual threshold by talking to the subject rather than starting a political dispute on a matter that is practically the responsibility of the authority and that would be the basis for an mature opinion, it would have done much to increase the level of debate. The Istanbul Convention was also made as an excuse. We have repeatedly said this in front of the House. In order to introduce the privileged position of dozens of creative social sex into the Hungarian legal system, this majority of governments are not willing to do so, which would also help to strengthen the migration wave, as under this convention, we should in fact enter Hungary without scrutiny and control. We don't participate in this kind of game. The Member may not like this, but practically all the regulations that serve the protection of women are incorporated into the Hungarian legal system. Tell me something that doesn't. The comparative table has been put out, virtually no technical objection has been received by the Ministry to this day. This mantra should be released. You want something else. We know what you want, and we don't agree on that. This matter was closed here by the Hungarian Parliament when it took a decision. The victims. The Minister announced the year of victim protection by 2020. I thank my fellow Member, Mónika of the Danube, who has explained in detail what has happened and what else we will do in this matter. If it weren't for the coronal virus this year, victim protection could have gotten even more spotlight. Overall, I would like to say that this bill is good. It serves the purpose for which it was written. Regardless of the debates that have taken place here, I would like everyone's support. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-249	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next, the 2019 XCV on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2020. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/12869. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are in a special situation because the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is not in a legislative role. Therefore, according to the house rules, it is the current Committee on Budgets that is acting in this case, so as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, we presented this bill as T/12869. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What the bill is about, I'd like to share the slick facts with you. The National Media and Infocommunications Authority has submitted its budget for the year, as required by law, within the deadline of the last year. At the same time, the fact that we are discussing this issue in an unusual way again on the amendment of the Authority's budget is the reason that this spring the 2020 LXXVI on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2021. Law amended the amount of the public service contribution set out in the Media Act. This means that NMHH will receive additional support not only next year, but also this year, thus the HUF 75 billion contribution planned for this year will increase to HUF 84.7 billion. The increase, the HUF 9.7 billion increase, will be paid by the State by 31 October 2020 to the fund's cash account, which is why the submission of the proposal last week by the Committee on Budgets was justified. The amendment was supported by 8 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. Therefore, one of the objectives of the prepared bill is to transfer those amendments to the budget of MTVA and the other aim is to repeal the provisions relating to the television film cinema and the TV film-college which ceased with succession as of 1 January 2020 in line with legislative and institutional changes. For this very reason, Mr President, Mr House, on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance, we are recommending this proposal to Parliament in support of its adoption. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-09-21-251	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to present a position during the debate. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Maria Kállai, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-252	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the possibility that I can really say some thoughts on behalf of our group about the 2019 XCV on the NMHH's 2020 single budget. a bill amending the law. In front of this House, of course, everyone knew that the single budget of the NMHH itself consists of several smaller parts, and I do not want to mention this now. Dear House, In addition to the fact that, in the light of legislative and organisational changes, as my fellow Member has submitted, the current proposal repeals the provisions on the television cinema, essentially proposes to amend the separate budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. Allow me a very short explanation. The extent and definition of the public service contribution, since virtually Hungarian television has existed, is the same, of course, taking into account inflation. According to Annex 4 to the Media Act, the public service contribution in 2012 amounted to HUF 64 billion 800 million a month with HUF 4 million of Hungarian households and HUF 1350 per household. This amount shall be indexed each year from 2013 at least with the annual index of consumer prices in Hungary prior to the reference year. In view of this, and also with a view to determining the public service contribution to be paid to MTVA in the light of the net costs of carrying out the public service tasks of the Fund, the legislator also decided to amend the Media Act in this way by means of the 2020 LXXVI on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2021. under the law. It is also important to stress that this amendment is fully in line with the provisions of the Commission's Communications on the application of State aid rules to public service broadcasting, and that the amendment itself will, of course, continue to ensure that the public service contribution will continue in the future under the Media Act No 136. It is based on taking into account the number of households referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 4 using linear audiovisual media services, and is also capable of enforcing the necessary technological developments or technical requirements resulting from technological developments. [[21.00]] Dear Parliament, It follows from what has been said that these legislative decisions therefore form a clear, logical process. As my fellow Member said, Hungary's budget for 2020 was announced on 23 July 2019 and the public service contribution was planned according to the amount set by law, amounting to HUF 75 billion. LXXVI of 2020 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2021. By law, Parliament decided to increase the public service contribution to HUF 94 billion 540 million in 2020. In practice, the difference in the period after 1 July 2020 as we have already heard is due to be paid to MTVA's payment account by 31 October, so there is an estimated revenue of HUF 84 billion of HUF 778 million, which, if we call for mathematics, is HUF 9 billion 762 million higher than planned. The transfer of this legislative change to the budget of the NMHH is necessary, which is included in this proposal. In practice, it is in our common interest that this increase should best focus on new programmes, cultural programmes and digital education that help people in the epidemic situation, in line with the epidemic situation, because it was clear that during the time of budget planning, it was not possible to identify a number of expenditure, whether we are thinking about the programme production process or other budget lines for MTVA. It follows from the above, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal is no more, no less, that it is to adapt another to a budget law which has already been adopted and announced. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the proposal, and I respectfully ask all my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-253	Thank you very much. It is now time for Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With this, the facts of Szűcs, my colleague Lajos Szűcs, initiated the speech as rapporteur contained in this bill. Then let's look at the slick facts. There is nothing here but another HUF 10 billion coming into the brainwashing propaganda machine, which has been operating for nearly HUF 100 billion. And then let me also have a sleek fact, which, by the way, was realized on Saturday, because I also sat down to look at the information of the operational tribe at 11:30 p.m., because we knew that the second season had begun. I'll sit down at 11:30, 25:00, see if this briefing starts first, and then they'll announce that this briefing will start later. We had to wait for an hour to get the operational tribe briefing started. What happened in the meantime? We had to listen to all the brainwashing you guys are doing for the public service. Is that why people pay the public service contribution you're referring to? So we got to the point where, for an hour, the actual part of the day couldn't begin. Why? In the meantime, I solved this mystery, because no one watches M1, except those who may say that they can no longer subscribe to anything else, but they want to hear the information of the operational tribe, so they could listen for an hour to what you perform in public service every day. I truly feel sorry for those people, especially those living in small towns, who have no other opportunity to get information from other sources of news. That's what this whole story is about. This HUF 10 billion would be much better... as my fellow Member Kállai has said, it would be good to turn it to the epidemic. How many free vaccines out of 10 billion forints can be provided to people! Is the fact that we are getting to say that this has already been accepted as the foundation for the 2021 central budget, overwritten and increased public service contributions? ! Well, why don't we use it for something else? There is indeed an epidemic, and I do not believe that cultural programmes are needed. What is needed is that people are vaccinated free of charge, free of charge, because we know very well that someone should not be told by my fellow Member that I do not know exactly... to pay HUF 19 500. Let's take a look at this in a family of four, see, say, we have to test it twice so that someone can go to work, we are there that almost a family of four has already paid 100,000 forints for double testing. And you've been hitting 10 billion forints, 9.7 billion forints, to be exact, you're practically hitting the propaganda that's been washing brains for ten years now. It is quite simply amazing that we have to get to this point, when there really is a better place for this, and I do not understand how you can stand up and smile at it, to say that these slick facts are that you have to adapt a law to another legislation. No! We're talking about 10 billion forints. I respectfully ask you to stop treating us like idiots. That's what this whole story is about. And when the opposition raises his voice, that's why he raises his voice. Well, where did we get to, where did this country get to? ! Forints 10 billion, of course, the Jobbik Group cannot give its name to this, because it is nothing but for you and the government to proclaim the word that we see that the government is even a coward to come here and at least classify this draft legislation with a State Secretary. I understand that on behalf of the NMHH, the Committee on Budgets, just sorry, would expect us to find out what the government thinks of HUF 100 billion going nowhere here. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-21-255	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-256	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last year, we held this debate when it came to the budget of the NMHH, where the biggest debate took place between me and Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Mr Zsolt Gréczy. This debate is dangerous because Andrea Varga-Damm has been kicked out of her party since then, and Zsolt Gréczy has resigned his mandate, so this is a dangerous topic, as last year's debate took place. There was this absurd accusation about why the government doesn't represent the NMHH here. Congresswoman, the NMHH is an independent body, the government does not exercise control over it, it is not a subordinate body of the government, and it is therefore right, according to constitutional customs and law, that the government is not here in this debate. What should the government add? Here in Parliament we vote for the budget of the NMHH, here they submit their accounts, here they submit their budget needs, here they decide. What's the government got to do with it? It's as simple as that. We started talking about this last year, but it looks like we didn't get much further in a year. Congresswoman said that she would spend 10 billion forints on vaccine. Me, too, but I don't. [[Anita Kőrösi: I didn't say that...]] That's what you said. You may have misunderstood me, but you said it was a vaccine. We'd like to spend our money on that. And if someone's press conference is delayed, then the media television is to blame... Is Jobbik's press conference taking place so that if you're a little late for the press conference, which can happen to everyone, you'll blame the media television channels or journalists because you're late? Of course, the task of the public media is that if the operational tribe holds a press conference with the latest epidemiological measures, with the latest numbers, it can start live when they start the press conference, so let's not make the media responsible. Although I can see that on the left, it's been common with you lately, that nameless, authorless, location, source, without appointment, something goes into the ether, some false news is shared, and then it runs through your channels. Your media perception is now there, including the Alpha News, Crowdupubi and many of your media, that someone is completely faceless, without a source, without a scene, and then appears on their party president's channel, on the party channel, and on all the left-wing party channels. This was also the case a few days ago with the lack of ventilator in the two hospitals, which, of course, in the socialists... the Gyurcsány Party even organised a press conference for a false news report. That's what you think of the media. [[21.10]] I think that all this press organ, which has been declared independent, objective, professionally critical, are left-wing media that are involved in the dissemination of such false news without any sense of shame or responsibility, and you are taking over and insisting on it, just to outbid each other and to get past the fake, chamomuvide-based Korózs comrade, this is not the critical press, the critical media. I think it's an irresponsible, vile scare. A NMHH debate should also mention responsible media awareness-raising behaviour. What I am asking of you, as in the immediate question, is that you stop spreading and sharing these false news with a chain of alarms. At the same time, NMHH has a very important role to play when talking about this, for example, the Internet Hotline Legal Assistance Service or the launch of child protection programmes, especially for children aged 11-18 years, and the development and education of media awareness, which may be the responsibility of all of us towards the younger age group. After all, I think that there is a need for a media campaign, a promotional campaign, an Internet campaign. For example, NMHH is also in partnership with SOS Children's Village Hungary, they have joint projects. The effectiveness of Internet Hotline's operation, the subject of cyberbullying, the subject of false news and the action against damaged content or content referring to crime is also a matter of course. I think that the NMHH has done absolutely exemplary work on these issues in recent years, and I think that this work needs to be strengthened and continued. If you disagree with that, I'd be surprised. I think these are common goals to help young people become media-conscious and to protect them from these attacks and these difficult cases, which actually raise regulatory issues, because during the period of online harassment, during the period of false news, it is important to put more emphasis on media awareness. We also see that the 21st century In the 20th century, in the era of innovation, the fourth industrial revolution, infocommunication, fast access, 5 G, mobile network, public Wi-Fi systems became practically part of our daily lives and become increasingly part of the everyday lives of young people. Therefore, it is important that we do not fall behind in the area of digitalisation, innovation, information communication, because the country that is behind will be put at a disadvantage in the fourth industrial revolution. Both the NMHH and the Hungarian government have done a great deal to place great emphasis on innovation issues and the expansion of modern infocommunication tools and infocommunication opportunities for everyone today. As my colleague Lajos Szűcs has already pointed out, it is important in the bill that he is also the successor to the support tasks performed by the Television Film Mecenatura and the Television Film College, the National Film Institute. I think that in recent years we can be very proud of a number of films. Many Hungarian films have won various international awards. I think that it is in our common interest that the Hungarian film should be further developed and that the successes that it has achieved in recent years can be carried on, and that there should be further such works. This is an excellent opportunity for the National Film Institute. Therefore, I see this as a somewhat underrated detail, but it is important that the situation of the film institute is finally cleared up. It will also be passed through the laws, there is no legal uncertainty anymore, and this work can continue, which has brought great success to Hungary and has enhanced the reputation of the Hungarian film. I think it is worth talking about these issues in the context of a law on the NMHH. Of course, we can support this bill. I ask my fellow Members not to ask the government, for example, why they are not here on the subject, but together, to set objectives in the fight against media awareness, Internet false news and various false news, driven by the sense of responsibility of everyone. The KDNP fraction supports the law. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2020-09-21-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP may come next. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to start by saying that the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, as I understand it, was last Monday, where this amendment was discussed. I came to work today, and the meeting of the Enterprise Development Committee started at 12:00. Mr President, Dániel Z. Kárpát called to say that we were coming, opposition politicians, because he has just learned that the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP, on the grounds that there is an epidemic, will not come to the committee meeting and we will not be able to reach a resolution. I would like to say that the items on the agenda of this committee meeting were only statements from opposition representatives. The speakers before me have said how important this amendment, which we are discussing now, has been referred to as an epidemic. Then I'll tell you what amendments were made by the opposition to the epidemic situation, let's say, at today's committee meeting, which you have made impossible. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I'll tell you, Congressman, be patient. I listened to it, but it wasn't easy. The guarantees on distance work; the reduction of the pay gap between women and men; the preservation and necessary modification of the value of public employment and public employment wages; the amendment of the labour code, the introduction of a minimum wage, the need for it. You know, you're always desperate at this point in time to understand that it was very important last week, because last week the epidemic situation wasn't so strong that the Committee on Budgets was discussing this 10 billion extra support; you know, Congressman, when you say that there's no one in the governing parties here we understand because we're talking about an independent institution and the government has nothing to do with it, don't tell me that it's 10 billion forints. The taxpayers' money, if we talked about 10 million forints, would still have something to do with the government. I understand that the law regulates that the Committee on Budgets will submit, that the government has no opinion, that we know what will happen, that it will be voted, that your fellow Member has forgotten to say, I think he has quoted from 2013 how much his budget has been for this institution. In 2010, we talked about HUF 20 billion; in 2010 we talked about HUF 20 billion. Now, this year, with this amendment, we have reached HUF 103 billion; HUF 103 billion for this filth, because it cannot be called anything else. One of the institutions, the public media, is led by a forgery by Dániel Papp, who also has a record that he did so. And not with that shocking, but with reference to the epidemic, with reference to the budget, we come in and support such an institution with HUF 10 billion. 10 billion forints to answer my colleague for 500,000 tests would be enough for a free test. 500,000, half a million! Perhaps I think it is more important now, in this situation, than to talk about the fact that the HUF 93 billion, which in itself is a serious sum, is still worth 10 billion forints. 103 billion forints... what's there to buy, what's there to buy this money for? And it is possible to say here that the Internet and how to protect young people and what Hungarian films should be made, we might even agree with the goals many times, just what we have seen over the last few years and allow me, my fellow Member, that it is also very terrible to bring this amendment to the House right now, because, let us say, they are about to withdraw the frequency from Clubradio. Or, let's say, the Index has just been grounded, but how many examples of what's happened in the past. Or we could say how the Church of Gábor Iványi and his foundation are made impossible. We're not talking about 10 billion forints. Or, let's just say, how they're making charity for disadvantaged children impossible now: Bead Foundation. Congressman, does that name mean anything to you? You may say that this doesn't belong here, but it belongs here, and we didn't talk about 10 billion forints in connection with the Pearl Foundation, but about a few million forints you took, and you cut them off because these people mean nothing to you, and it doesn't matter. [[21.20]] You know what shocks me, Congressman? That we're talking about children here, say, the Pearl Foundation. Kids, little girls, little boys. But you don't care about that, we're throwing 10 billion forints at the public media again. To the invaluable public media. Under the law. While we can see from other organizations, referring to the epidemic, they say that it doesn't make sense, and it's classified that this organization, let's say, hasn't done any work that would be useful to society. It's a shock to me that they come here, stand up, read what they wrote, and then everything's fine. We threw ten billion forints out the window again, tax-paying forints! Ten billion forints. Meanwhile, on the other hand, we see how organisations, local governments, who really want to do what they can to protect their own people and their fellow citizens as soon as possible. This is what we've actually seen over the past few years, and they're going to think because of the epidemic and the budget and this law, and we're going to see that they really don't care about the things that need to be dealt with. I only brought up my own committee meeting because it was the same text. Referring to the epidemic situation, and to the fact that we will vote today for the exceptional procedure on the basis of the epidemic, so that the submissions of opposition representatives cannot be brought before Parliament, because the less we meet, we will protect each other and protect the population. You can accept that, too. Just last week there was no epidemic, Congressman? You didn't have to protect him last week? This had to be brought in quickly for a committee meeting, didn't it? Today, nothing could be discussed at a committee meeting, it could have been last week. We are not talking about the fact that an opposition amendment could have passed here at any time in recent years. Nothing. We're talking about very serious things. 103 billion forints, which turned 93 to 103 billion forints. Which was already a pretty brutal amount of money compared to what they were providing to the Hungarian population. Balanced information? Where is it, Congressman? Balance? Information? Well, that's not what we've been talking about for a long time. We're talking about serving a system. And full service. This is the most serious thing we are seeing in Hungary, that, again, they are trying to plow the Klubradio, a few weeks ago the Index, and we can list what they have done over the last few years. Because they won't rest until there's only one left, because there's not one left. Meanwhile, we are throwing money, throwing ten billion forints, and we do not see what the consequences will be, and in the meantime, we should defend and protect Hungarian people. But no. We're here at 9:30 p.m., and we're giving the public media another 10 billion forints. I can only congratulate you, Congressman.
u2020-09-21-259	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we held a debate, which is essentially due to the situation that the budget for the media authority and its operation in a divided form are discussed in several committees by Parliament, and one part of which, its financial part, its budget, falls on the Committee on Budgets. It is a rather strange situation, because it is necessary to judge the use of resources by itself that it is difficult to compare it directly in the Commission debate with the political reasons for the party's use of this resource. On the one hand, there is therefore a question, whether it is the basic budget that Parliament has already negotiated this year, and it has been adopted, and it is now an addition to that which provides additional resources to the media authority, which, from the details, shows that it will basically end up with the very popular MTVA organization, where basically billions of forints are spent on material expenses and personal expenses, and therefore the costs associated with the production of the programme can be significantly increased. The way MTVA works, it can also be seen in this debate with a few people that we are very critical, but I think that is not a great miracle. The opposition representatives have had to get used to talking about us on these televisions, on these radios, over the last decade, but we cannot express our views. I think that this is exhausting the inequality of opportunity, which is why it is safe to say that it is the government that supports and presents it, and you, Members, because, in this debate, it is not the government, but the MEPs who are presenting it through a committee, and the majority in the government support it, you support and create electoral fraud. They are creating the unequal situation that increases the possibility of a one-minute MTV media upheaval on the part of the leaders that you control, which you delegate, in this one-minute MTV media upheaval. I don't know how much of it comes out of it in excess, but I'm pretty sure that the source that gives you the extra money is going to go this way or is going to go this way. We can say that because we are obviously approaching the elections, so it is very important for you to have as many of these programmes as possible next year. As much as you protest, and you say that the political contestants object to this, but I must say to you that people are protesting the brainwashing that MTVA is doing with your background, with your support. Yes, this is an abuse of the situation, and I even think that it is a violation of the Fundamental Law, because you are doing so in the pursuit of exclusive power, against which we all have an obligation to act, and that is what you are hearing now. It's a shame they don't want to do that and refuse to accept it. The fact that what you have put forward here, I will have a bit of a debate here with my fellow Members, it seems to me that this is not ten, but twenty billion forints in total, which will receive additional benefits under the law, but this will then be clarified in the detailed debate on how much automation is really about, and by the power of the law, this will appear. It was a specific situation that, when we were looking for answers to these questions, I had to inform the civil servants present at the committee meeting that they did not respond by considering what I, we said there, as political judgement, and on this basis they do not respond to it. Okay, but there were authorized representatives, they had the authority of the president of the NMHH, but they couldn't answer, they didn't want to. That is why I am confident that this will be done partly in this debate and partly in the detailed debate. I'll come back for a thought, but it could be longer than that, what you're really doing along the lines of this bill. [[21.30]] But in the end, it precedes this idea and it is important for me to say that this year the European Communication Code was also adopted. However, this codex, I believe, may contain a lot of regulations or regulations for you in this process, which I believe you will not comply with. In itself, when this was accepted, I really believe that it was not eligible, because the powers of the media authority alone were taken in a direction where my fellow Member Nacsa Lőrinc mentions responsible media awareness, so the main thing that could arise is that I do not say 1, 2, 3, 5; people do not look at channels, and media awareness appears in the fact that they are switched off or even look at these channels. The next problem is that they sneaked into places quietly, and I don't think anyone here dares to talk about the amount of this money, what the TV broadcasts that appear on M1 and M4 Sports cost. Because, of course, their costs or their legal possibility must be purchased from the otherwise winner in this area. And you can really tell us how many billion forints it cost in itself, and how many billion forints it costs to take advantage of the high ratings of sports programmes to abuse the situation of essentially one-minute media abuse on people who, by the way, stand by Hungarian athletes with their sporting affection, watch these broadcasts, and you are committing media harassment in an unauthorized place. So, on this path, I think that in the detailed debate we will have to talk about how you do not comply with the European Electronic Communications Code and how you break it with these steps. But we may have to look at this indirectly in the broadcasting that appears as a result of what this budget provides. And if I've been talking about what you're doing with this money, then I have to say that it's just as bad for equal opportunities in elections that if there's a medium that's willing, let's just say, to be balanced, to present pro-government opinions and, in part, opposition opinions, then you're closing it for the reasons you're saying. I think it's infinitely outrageous what you allow yourself to do with the Clubradio. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, raises his eyes to the eye, but that is still the case, that I may even allow you, on the basis of small administrative errors, to draw your attention to the code that follows from the former directive, that you should not be prevented, but that you should help such candidates, but you do not. Instead, what are they doing? They're going to come up with some sort of narcissistic administrative error, which means that the radio with hundreds of thousands of students is going to be shut down. Of course, they can't tell us where the law was violated by their programmes, and why they should be punished by stopping broadcasting. And that's why, on such a pretext, you want to take away his frequency license. The legal obligation of the Media Council is, moreover, to maintain media pluralism, the diversity of information. When are you going to do this? Never in life, because in the last ten years, I haven't been able to do that for a minute. They are in constant violation of the law, and they can do so, otherwise as a result of the fact that the head of the NMHH, as well as the head of the D.A.'s office, and we could still list the organizations as people who turn a blind eye to this, and I would say, in exchange for a 20 billion-dollar bounty, they will shut down the Clubradio and do it to provide you with propaganda that will serve their political aspirations in this sense. In Hungarian radio, Klubrádió is the only one that does not provide propaganda from the MTI. This is the real crime of this radio, because you don't give them money from the hundred and fifteen-some billion forints budget, they don't make a show there, but instead they make a programme based on their own resources, revenues from their students, donations, broadcasts, Clubradio, they want to shut him down. Actually, honourable Members, who is breaking the law here? It's not a rhetorical question, because I answer it: you. They're doing everything they can to make this psychic impossible and silent, and now they're doing so many things in a row. Of course, that's just because it's not possible for you to silence those who don't agree with you. You say something quite different in Brussels, say something quite different to the Members of the European Parliament, and do something very different here at home. That is why you cannot be forgiven for acting like this and talking about it. That is why I condemn this Media Council's contribution to this by carrying out its budget, spending money and making decisions. I think that ignoring the attention of a significant part of the Hungarian electorate so obscenely is unacceptable, and that is why the budget you have submitted here, or what my fellow Members have brought here, is unacceptable. And, of course, we could talk a lot more about the fact that, in this economic situation, speaking of a Committee on Budgets, how much better place we can list so that we do not spend this resource on this. But you all respond with deaf ears, you don't want to hear this. Instead, they seek to condemn you just now to serve the political ambition that is simply a power effort on your part to obtain all of this through funding from the media budget that supports it from state resources. I think that this is more than anything else an example of how you operate a dictatorship where neither freedom of the press nor freedom of expression can prevail, theft of Hungarian people, and the possibility of freely talking about it is being lost in the budget. Thank you very much.
u2020-09-21-261	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Would anyone else like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[For signal:]] Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, please.
u2020-09-21-262	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that when voters vote in parliamentary elections, they want the Members who enter Parliament to speak the truth and try to be on the side of the truth. And now you are not far from telling the truth, and we have heard true speeches from you; you should have only exchanged one thing in your speech, and then you would have been absolutely right: you should not have talked about public television, but about the propaganda barracks of Fidesz, to whom you would now be willing to give 10 billion forints again, and then you would have told the truth. [[21.40]] The problem here is that you're talking about public television. You know, public television, public service would mean that it is a public-interest, public-money media, which seeks to provide balanced and objective information to the citizens of Hungary. The only thing missing from the public media is to provide balanced and objective information. I do not think that a television or public service media can act as a public service if it does not take into account the fact that there are opposition parties in Hungary, there are opposition politicians, and I am sorry! There are also opposition voters. Public service means that it should serve everyone's needs for news, and it should normally speak out on all sides in the spirit of objectivity. You guys are talking about fake news and fake news and everything, just let me give you one piece of data. The lost correction lawsuits in 2018, that's what we've got, the pro-government media has lost 109 lawsuits before the courts, the opposition media you call, and then even the Index was included in this period of 2018, which has been shredded and taken over since then, and that is 14 lost lawsuits. 109 to 14 who's talking about fake news and fake news? I think that media awareness and what kind of shows are coming out, media awareness education doesn't mean that if you turn on, say, the M1, you can only see foot licking, interrogation, professional insolence and political bias. I mean, if you turn on this television and I think we could even talk about maybe talking about the most expensive television in the world, if you compare the amount and ratings, you're running one of the most expensive televisions in the world right now as a propaganda machine. Now you can say that these are accusations and the like, not accusations, because they're a... [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Congressman, I see you nodding, yes, these are charges. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, have a look at it, so be kind enough to say what court judgments are in relation to M1. Would you agree with the judgment of the Court of Cassation that a report was made completely unilaterally, without the other party speaking, and in this report they even lied? I'm not saying it. The court says it. Or perhaps you should go up to the site, hirado.hu, and see that you believe that the public service is affected by the appearance of a disgusting propaganda report called the final farewell to László Bogdán, Cserdi, 2020.07.24. You'll find a disgusting, embarrassing, lie-based article when you open these things. I don't think that's gonna fit into public service. There is no room for lost redress lawsuits; there is no room for opposition politicians and opposition opinion not to be presented in the spirit of public service; there is no possibility that they do not have one programme in which they could argue and that Hungarian society could be familiar with the arguments and opinions of the government side and the opposition. I believe that this is how a normal public service media should operate, but unfortunately this is not the way it works in Hungary today, and you are paying serious tens of billions every day. You are simply a footman's media, you could also say that many times the public media has been classified as a Fake news factory. This needs to be changed. I believe that as long as you are in power and you are in government, there will be no change in that. I hope that Hungarian people will have had enough of the propaganda machine and the style that you represent in this country, and they probably want to change it, and then we may be able to talk about public television and perhaps talk about balanced media, where there will be really programs, conversations that are exclusively for citizens of Hungary and not for Fidesz people. I wish for all of us that public service should once return to public service television, the public service media, because it is in the interests of Hungary, of all Hungarian citizens and of all Hungarian people, that public service will also be restored. It was one of those things that you've taken from this country for the last ten years, but you're gonna have to give it back to the people, and we're hoping that this will work. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-09-21-263	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the author, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, if he would like to speak and reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-09-21-264	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. The reason for this evening, of course, is that we have learned once again that the text of the law is completely independent of what we are talking about. I don't think there's anything new about this in the fall season. I say to Mrs President that I did not convene the committee meeting, but László Varju, chairman of the committee, and we went and discussed the items on the agenda. I will even tell you the strange thing that Mr Varju should say these words instead of me, only in recent years, in recent years, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has never accepted the NMHH... [[On the mark of László Varju:]] You just wanted to apply, so that's right, we voted about it, I see the very serious... [[To the intervention of László Varju:]] Yes, you should be the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, so if you were to take on this agenda and say the things that are really in the law, and you would not try to tell political lounges about these stories. Congresswoman, I almost cried when you said these things about what this amount could be used for. Then take a step back in time and calculate the story of the construction of the MTVA headquarters in 2007 using a PPP method, then they wanted to spend 40 years without the ownership of the Hungarian State to rent the MTVA headquarters, the amount would have been HUF 155 billion. In 2012, this government decided to rescue MTVA from the PPP scheme. Hungary won some HUF 93 billion on this transaction. You must also account for these amounts, and they have all been carried out during your period by businesses linked to the left. All the forints of this budget change are not plus, but it's in this year's budget. It's a transfer, like I said. Accordingly, everything you have said about the media is about your opinion on the media and not about the content of this legislative amendment proposal. That is why, Mr President, I thank you for your attention, and I propose that Parliament do its job and then vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-09-21-265	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[21.50]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. The first among these is Mr László Varju, a representative of DK:. 180-year-old Újpest. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-266	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I will try to keep you regularly informed about the major events affecting the northern part of Újpest and the Angel's Land, my constituency here, and to draw attention to, for a short time, how important things are happening in this constituency and in this area. This year we can celebrate two anniversaries that are important to us: our district, this part of the city celebrates its 180th birthday this year, and also to tell you a local peculiarity, the 150th anniversary of the establishment of the Újpest fire department will also fall by 2020. István Károlyi, owner of the great Fót estate north of Pest, made it possible to rent land and land in István Hill, a part of the Crab Palota's wilderness, from 1 January 1831. This is where the vincellers were designed to be considered the seeds of today's Újpest Újmegyer mountain village. The first house was built by Márton Mildenberger in 1832. As an interesting fact, I can tell you that your great-grandson's child's reverend performance this weekend was very exciting and interesting in other respects, but I listened to it. Initially, the settlement called the Újmegyer colony was named by Isaac Lőwy, the first judge of the future village, New Pest, who in 1835, along with his two brothers, founded a leather factory here. From the 1840s, on the initiative of the Pest excursion place, Count István Széchenyi also hosted a boat station. In 1840 he was separated from Rákospalota to become an independent village, and in 1907 he became a town of council. Its territory was extended several times until 1950, and the IVth Újpest was founded in 1950 when Nagy-Budapest was created. the district and the border of this part of the city, as well as the border with Rákospalota XV. district, too. Many laborers and families have jobs and residences here. As a part of today's heritage, photographer Miklós Déri took a series of photos of the prestigious, eras and generations-long businesses and masters of the district. The legacy of an old-new world, Újpest, is presented in the exhibition, with which the management of Újpest also wishes to honor the traditions of the 180-year-old part of the city. The exhibition decorated the entrance of the town hall for a whole week, and then at several locations, I might say, it works as a travelling exhibition, the last time this free exhibition was on the Cabbage County. Of course, besides celebrating the celebration, the work did not stop in the district either, especially because during such an emergency period, after the election in October he started to work for the new management, and in a very important item he launched a Újpest plus evaluation programme, as well as a Summer launcher plus reward programme. Within the framework of the former, the citizens of the district received a voucher, which could otherwise be spent for a chosen purpose in the Újpest market, which is decided by them, thus stimulating the local economy, while the district's cradle, kindergarten and social workers received half a month's extra wage support, which, on average, was HUF 87 thousand. Despite the fact that the government has done everything in its power to leave the municipalities and, in particular, the capital, it was possible to take action in these difficult times. In cooperation with the local government, I will also try to give you all the help you need, by the way, so that Mayor Tibor Déri, Kata Bedő, Dr Norbert Trippon, László Czigler and Vice Mayors Máté Kanász-Nagy can do their best work with other members of the body of representatives, worthy of historical predecessors, and I wish to be able to report more on the many good practices. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-09-21-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, will be following:, Goodbye summer, goodbye Balaton! It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-09-21-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Bye-bye, summer, bye-bye, Lake Balaton! I gave this title to my speech after today's agenda, and it was not for nothing, because it was an extraordinary summer in 2020. Many have chosen Balaton to rest, and we are glad that the southern shore has triumphed. Siófok was extremely popular among family members, but he was very popular not only among family members, but also for everyone, young people. However, many sorrows filled the hearts of those living there: the activities that you have begun to do have not been stopped in May 2020. In May 2020, the state-owned Balatoni Hajózási Zrt., i.e. Bahart, adopted a reorganisation plan against which part of the municipalities protested, or protested in the manner that they simply did not participate in the vote or abstained, i.e. they did not support your ideas. In this reorganisation plan, it was formulated that the ports should be sold in the name of profile cleaning, rationalization, loss compensation, and the sale of Balatoni Hajózási Zrt. certain of its properties and operate the sailing ports. Then the negotiations with the municipalities started, and they backed back on the passenger ports. [[22.00]] However, they were able to agree on three out of four ports so that the municipalities could continue to ensure these tasks. Camps, hotel constructions are continuous. And we've come there, haven't we, when you pushed through this reorganisation plan in May 2020, we're in the middle of another epidemic situation, when a little distraction may be made from Lake Balaton after summer, and we're talking about the fact that you're not going to ignore the charter of sailing ports. 11 sailing ports are intended to be operated for a fixed period of 15 years in the framework of a one-way application. We already know who will be the candidates who will be in the ring for the operation of these sailing ports, which everyone knows is the Balaton Shipping Company. one of his most profitable businesses. Because they also said and included in the reorganisation plan that there were three activities: ferry operation, which is also profitable, sailing port operation, which is also profitable, and there is a loss-making sector, passenger shipping, that remains between Bahart's activities. So we have come to the conclusion that until 20 October 2020 you will be giving 11 sailing ports in Balaton for 15 years in the framework of a one-way application. That's how the money is cleared out of the Bahart, because we know very well how you're going to conduct this sailing dock competition. We, opposition representatives, have stood all summer for the fact that Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, not just the marinas, but also the coast. We will continue to keep an eye on what you will do to these sailing ports. We'll be watching what they're gonna do to Club League, because we can also see that they've set foot there, declared it a special zone, a priority national zone. In doing so, they changed the rules of construction by regulation so that we would not be able to tell here, within the walls of Parliament, what is wrong with Club Aliga, that the locals would like these to remain public parks and roads. But you stand in the way of these, too, because you want to serve the oligarchs who are so kind to you. Together with my fellow opposition Members, we will continue to be there for any action that serves the purpose of saving Lake Balaton. For you may say goodbye, summer, goodbye, Balaton, but for the Hungarian people, the summer memory of Lake Balaton is very important, and we would like to keep it for our grandchildren, our great-grandsons. That's why we're going to fight, so the most important thing for us is that the people at Lake Balaton and the people at Lake Balaton have a good time, and indeed everyone in Lake Balaton has it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-09-21-269	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, good night, everyone.
