u2020-11-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. The 17th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Sándor Szabó will be notaries of my assistance. As usual, we will start today with speeches before the agenda. Our current affairs! Mr Tamás Mellar, from the Group of Dialogue, asked to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The second wave of the coronal virus epidemic is putting all of us, families, governments and local governments to the test. The latter have suffered very serious losses in recent years, for example due to the loss of business tax, the loss of parking revenue or even the withdrawal of vehicle tax. The expected losses in Pécs were 650 million forints between March and June, but the expected losses forecast for November and December will be 450 million forints, i.e. a total loss of 1.1 billion forints. Losses of the same magnitude can be recorded in other cities; of course, the size of the capital will increase by an order of magnitude. I know that the government is not rich in unnecessary money either, but I do think that the government has much more room for manoeuvre than the local authorities, because the crisis now means that there is no need to comply with the 3 percent government deficit limit in Maastricht, and there is also significant EU resources available to alleviate the crisis. Therefore, the government has or has the opportunity to assist the municipalities, the municipalities that are otherwise on the front line of defence. Of course, this assistance would not be selfless, and it is not that it could serve or serve only humanitarian aspects, since the resources allocated to municipalities will have a positive multiplier effect that affects the economy. It's like, you know, the Bible widow's jar, where the more oil the widow used, the more she became in the jar. So the more money the government would give to the municipalities, the greater the GDP and the greater the tax revenue in the budget, so there could be greater room for manoeuvre. Of course, I am not naive, and I know that the authorities will not be touched by this kind of argument, so they will not give any more money here and now. But if they don't give money, at least give useful information to the municipalities, because I have received a number of feedback recently that the municipalities are unable to get access to important information that affects their own territory, because they don't get it from the government. What am I thinking? What did they say to me? For example, how many inhabitants are in quarantine in the area or in the city, how many need hospitalizations, how many are cured. So these are all information that would be necessary for the defence, but unfortunately there is no information on this, the government does not provide them with information. What they would know, though, is that, unlike money, information is something that if it is shared, then it will not be less for the government, but we can all do better, so that the municipalities can or can do better the work that they absolutely need to do. Of course, in democracies, it is the custom and the principle that information flows freely, and the government's task is to keep its citizens well informed, because that is the only way they can make responsible decisions and make proper use of democratic statutes. It's only dictatorships that monopolise information. I hope that the government will see this and try to share information instead of monopolising it, because I think that the problem is big enough, especially to make it as broad as possible, but this can only be done if everyone has the information they need. So I ask you to change this practice and give the municipalities more information. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-17-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to start with what we agree on. We are in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, in the second wave, and, as we have made clear in the case of the first wave, it is crucial that credible, accurate information is available to the public and to all persons involved in the defence. We have already built a forum system in the context of the first wave of the corona virus epidemic that can provide this credible information to everyone. The website korunavirus.gov.hu and the daily briefings of the operational tribe are the ones that can provide the only, not only the only, but also the most important, credible information at professional level in connection with the disease management. By the way, I would just add that this is why we consider the phenomenon that the left-wing opposition has done in the first wave of disease management and now in the second wave to be extremely detrimental to the government or through the government the experts involved in government protection, such as members of the operational tribe, who do these briefings day after day, are attacking and not helping their work. We don't think that's a good approach. We believe that experts involved in the defence and involved in its communication should not be attacked but should be supported. The opposition would also act responsibly if it did so. I also agree with what you said about well-informed information, so I would like to ask left-wing opposition parties to stop disinformation, disinformation campaigns, because they are extremely damaging to defence. I can't put it any differently, I can't say it any better, I don't want to use needless strong words, but I have to say, the lies that were told in connection with the protection against the epidemic both in the spring and in the autumn, that a dictatorship would be built here in Hungary, that Parliament doesn't meet, and then, in the context of the autumn wave, MEP Lajos Korózs, who is the chairman of the People's Welfare Committee, so in this way, he is also an actor who should inform the public in a credible way of what is happening in the context of defence, instead he has produced a chamomuvide and built a political hack campaign to do so, and then he managed to repeat it in connection with the autumn wave, because he managed to post a falsified statistics on his Facebook page, which was also suitable for nothing else but the alarm. [[9.10]] It is true that this type of disinformation campaign, which comes from the left, undermines defence, which is our common concern and in which cooperation should be shown. I would therefore like to ask the Member, if he is seriously concerned, to use his existing influence on the opposition side and try to influence his fellow Members to end this, not to attack experts involved in defence and defence-related communication, but to provide credible information and cooperation to assist in the task they are doing, because this is the only way we can succeed in the second wave of protection against the epidemic. And as far as the municipal sector is concerned, I was under the impression that your memory was a bit selective. The municipalities are in a much more stable and much better economic condition, such as before 2010, the government exempted them from a very serious debt, took on several tasks, but the revenues due to the municipalities, on the one hand, their own revenues and, on the other hand, local subsidies provided by the government, are constantly increasing year by year. If you look at next year's budget, I am talking only about facts and figures, on the one hand, this sector is expected to manage almost HUF 3000 billion without credit resources, and the central budget is the IX. In Chapter III, HUF 857,8 billion, EUR 116,1 per cent of the aid granted in 2020 and a year ago, despite the fact that it is true that [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That the fight against the epidemic requires an economic sacrifice from everyone. Thank you very much for the work done by the municipalities. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Keresztes, Head of Group of the LMP Group, entitled News Affairs, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to start work today by thanking everyone who works to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people in such difficult circumstances. Before I turn to my question, I would like to refer back to Mr Orbán's statement of State Secretary Balázs. You received a question from a Member and used four out of five minutes to abuse the opposition instead of answering the question. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán keeps interrupting.]] I would just like to ask you back, Mr Secretary, that you do not feel that you made a mistake on 2 October on ATV television, when Professor Ferenc Jakab pointed out that the government is delaying with appropriate measures. You know exactly what you said then, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't you feel like you made a mistake then? I would like to ask you something similar to the question of the municipalities, and I would like to ask you on a similar subject, Mr Secretary of State, like Tamás Mellár, only I would like to advance that I will be a little more stringent. It is quite clear that without strong authorities, there is no effective defence, that the municipalities are the number one bastions of defense, and they have taken their part in the defence, and they are taking a series of brutal austerity measures. And let us all be clear: when you draw funds from the municipalities, you are not punishing the cities, not the mayors, not the districts, but attacking the people who live there, making it impossible for people living there to provide basic public services, such as public lighting, public transport, drinking water, kindergarten care. These resources are being seized during a brutal epidemic, along with a deep economic and social epidemic. This is totally unacceptable. We can see from a statement this morning that this amok run is not over on the part of the government. Not long ago, the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry discussed with Viktor Orbán and Minister Antal Rogán, and suggested that the payment of business tax on SMEs should be suspended. Now, let's make something very clear here. If you wanted to support small and medium-sized enterprises, you would look at the budget and find those funds, those hundreds of billions or even a thousand billion that could support this sector, and that would be an important step. This would require the closure of completely meaningless and inexplicable big investment, such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, for which only HUF 200 billion will be spent in this year's and next year's budgets. It is therefore a false reason that the municipalities are subject to restrictions because everyone has to do their part in dealing with the crisis; otherwise, I agree with the latter, but it is totally unacceptable that they put the municipalities, the cities, the districts and the small settlements in an impossible position, thus attacking the people who live there. I wrote a letter to 130 mayors and asked them what they thought would happen if such a restriction, which they had ingested, would happen. I can tell you that those who have responded so far have said without exception that it would put the operation of the municipalities in a virtually impossible position with this kind of brutal austerity, and I would add that the pro-government representatives who have responded so far have confirmed this. I would very, very much like to ask the Secretary of State, or I do not know who will honor me by answering you, not to answer me, but to give a clear answer to those involved in this matter, what is the situation with this levitated proposal. This morning, we saw a statement from Mr Parragh in the pro-government media saying that he would suspend the payment of the business tax for two years, and that he would also recommend the withdrawal of other municipal revenues. I'd like to refer to one more thing. Today there will be a vote on an amendment tabled by Fidesz MEPs, which is once again an attack on municipalities. We had a very long debate with the Secretary of State on the question of public utility and on the extremely difficult and critical situation of the water utility sector, and here again I refer not to my own opinion on the assessment of the situation, but to the regularly issued resolution of the Hungarian Water Utilities Association, representing the sector. In fact, this amendment will put the municipalities in an almost impossible position in some of the service areas, because it would look like you will not withdraw the utility tax, which I myself have made at least five times in line with the request of the profession, but restructuring it, and therefore a few examples will be mentioned in Budapest, instead of HUF 700 million, it will be HUF 3.2 billion, in Szeged, minus 500 million, in Miskolc it will mean a loss of 300 million, in my city, Pécs, it will mean 80 million, but I would add that they will withdraw 80 million or increase the city's costs in the supply area of the Tettye Source House by 80 million, so that there is no chance of obtaining funds here for the time, as there is a gap of HUF 20 billion in basic maintenance and replacement work for 15 years. I would ask the honourable secretary of state, the honourable members of the government, to focus on it and give us the opportunity to ensure that the defence is successful and that the municipalities can continue to play their part in it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] do not make their work impossible, consider the municipalities as partners. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Schanda Tamás State Secretary responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I am pleased that it is not past 12 hours, and we can continue the debate on the issues raised last night, but first of all allow me to join you, because it is really worth starting with every speech by thanking those involved in the defence for their work, especially doctors, nurses and health workers who have done superhuman work. But let us not forget the police and soldiers involved in maintaining public order, let us not forget the medical students who have been involved in the work of defence, let us not forget all the workers and all the businesses who are taking part in this particularly difficult time. And allow me, Congressman, to join you even in thanking the mayors, the local government leaders who are doing their best to protect their citizens, not complain and make Facebook posts. [[9.20]] Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, The fact is, the national civilian government is the best ally in the settlements. This was the government that rescued the Hungarian governments from the debt trap that those with whom you now sell on a doll. The fact is, honourable Member, that you know exactly the figures, you know exactly that you had to take over HUF 1400 billion of debt from Hungarian municipalities, the Hungarian settlements, because your friends of principle created a situation in which the management of municipalities was unsustainable. On the other hand, the position of the national civilian government is clear and clear that we can be relied on by the municipalities, regardless of size. Just look at the law on next year's budget, where the support of municipalities is 16 percent higher. If you look at it, I think you've already left Budapest and Pécs, what happens in the country, how it is built and beautiful with the help of the Hungarian village program, among other things. Honourable Congressman, The truth is, lying about the results is a simple political manipulation. I'm asking you not to do that. Honourable Congressman, I think if you think about it, you might also know that this government has always been the government of tax cuts. We believe in tax cuts, and we believe that the more tax cuts need to be made, the bigger the problem, the more money left for families, the more money left for businesses. On the other hand, we see what they are doing on the left, what they were doing on the steering wheel, and what they are doing when they can lead a settlement. They do not want to reduce taxes, they do not want to reduce the burden on businesses and the people living there or the Hungarian people. They are thinking about increasing taxes in Budapest, and the left-wing authorities are thinking about increasing taxes across the country. Honourable Congressman, That's the thing. On the other hand, on the right, we have always said and believe that tax reductions are necessary, honourable Member, tax reductions and support for investment. As you know, it doesn't have to be too complicated a logic, that if we invest, if we start new developments in Hungary, if we can start new projects, we can continue the programs we started, then there will be work, there will be work for businesses, there will be work for people, and there will be a livelihood for families. When you regularly stand up in the Hungarian Parliament and attack excellent programs and excellent projects, and want to take away budget coverage from them, you do nothing but want to take away a living from Hungarian people and take the job away from Hungarian businesses. We don't believe that. This is always the end, the result we have seen from your allies who have tried government: borrowing, indebtedness, debt slavery and vulnerability, because then people will have to pay for their support from somewhere. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-17-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Varju, Member of the DK Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-9	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Parliament, November 16th, 2020 will be an important day in the Hungarian history books of the future, known as the Day of Treason [[Nacsa Lawrence: Why? What did you do?]] when the Orbán government betrayed the Hungarian nation and the country completely openly and with premeditated intent. Yesterday you made it clear that money for the four Hungarian regions in the ten poorest regions of Europe can only come from the European Union to Hungary if you can steal most of it. If it can't be stolen, then it doesn't have to be your veto announced yesterday. They want to prevent the European Union from making payments of EU money conditional on the rule of law in the future. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Because what is the plan for all European countries? That if there is no independent justice in Europe, where the State Audit Office or the Fiscal Council does not control, but serves, where freedom of expression is hindered, where electoral rules are unfair, there is no rule of law. So, if this can happen in a country, that they can't investigate the affairs of all the people who have become rich in public money, they just send money there so that it doesn't get distributed by corrupt governments. Therefore, according to the European Community's plan, it is not at stake that money will come into the Szabolcs region, because the Hungarian people will receive the money they deserve. The stakes are that these funds may not be used by the dishonest, not only by the privileged, but also for the rise of all of us. Therefore, no euro will be taken from Hungary, at most from you, and from families, relatives and stromants who have gained billions of dollars and are happily divorcing. But you don't like these rules, and your answer is ready: then let the neighbor's cow die, and let no one get the EU's money. This is the Hungarian national interest, the open betrayal of the Hungarian people. At a time when hundreds of Hungarians die every day in abandoned health care, when thousands of people lose their jobs every day in the economic crisis because of the panic-like closure of the country, you are now dealing with what will become of their already fatted robbery system. But you're right to think that what you've done so far can't go on like this. That's a confession, MPs of the government. Your government is attacking its own country and its own citizens. The leech system you've introduced has been living in Hungary for ten years, and we've all been sucking on our blood for ten years. But it still wasn't enough, you're still, in the biggest trouble, busy with profit. Shame on you for attacking Hungary! Shame on you to be able to decide against the people even in the middle of a crisis [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are we enemies of the people? We've heard that before.]] and risk Hungarian businesses being destroyed, and the Hungarian people, the families, do not get EU help in the Ormany, nor in the peaceful Storm Corner. Tell me who you're doing this for. Because not for the people. Or if that's what you think, you'll have to stop fast. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about Csillebérc?]] You are panicking because the European Union does not want to let you steal all the money, and you are desperate for a very bad decision. I don't like that phrase, but I can't say otherwise, Congressmen, that it's treason. Since you're going to let this happen, you're fellow accomplices and profiteers. According to our Hungarian saying, if I don't give you cake, I can't give you advice. You do not need cake, but the Hungarian people do. Therefore, in the weeks and months ahead, try to act as a government instead of a blood-sucking criminal organization, if you have been unable to prepare hospitals, schools, and jobs for the second wave of the CDC. By this time, all you had to do was stop the country in a panic. You do not have the authority to take this veto from the Hungarian people. I demand that meaningful negotiations begin immediately. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] All of this here in Parliament! Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-17-10	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Allow me to give you some advice, it's not necessarily necessary to take it, but I think it's good. Anger is not always the best advisor, and I ask you to control the words you say in Parliament at other times, because I think some of your words were not worthy of Parliament! Mr Völner, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. [[9.30]]
u2020-11-17-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We are talking about the rule of law when we are pushing the current problems. I ask you, when you shot the crowd in the autumn of 2006, as is now happening in Belarus, and you often run to Brussels to see what happens, what Brussels did then. Let us assume that there is a rule of law framework within the EU in the Lisbon Treaty. What does this provide for us in certain cases? When certain Member States can be suppressed by the greats who want to rule over others, they have veto rights. It's a law institution. If someone's exercising their right, it's repulsive for you. Of course, it must be good to bend, sell, pay and refund guarantees, including state assets, water resources, privatization of health care or anything else that anyone wants from abroad, the banking sector, that is quite clear to you, this is the rule of law; and it is for us to defend the interests of Hungarian people. We're not gonna agree to an agreement where we say we're gonna accept an undefined set of terms consisting of rubber paragraphs, saying that we're gonna get paid if we accept that they can say that we don't get paid. I'll make it simple for you to understand. By the way, it is a cloud of fog in which you are riding and refuse to acknowledge that it is not in Hungary's best interest to serve ourselves forever, without any compensation to the dominant mainstream that is currently in Brussels. We'll never agree on that. I can say that it doesn't matter whether it's Moscow or Brussels, you're servile. Whether we say anti-Soviet activity or a rule of law clause, we are talking about the same rubber paragraph. You must take note of that. And if we have the right to do so, and Parliament has ordered the government not to accept such a thing, then it is the duty of both the Prime Minister and the Government to take action against this phenomenon at EU level. And then your comrades can go home to Italy and other places and say that we did not receive money because Viktor Orbán was evil. But not because they want to incorporate a mechanism where they want to rule out, say, Salvini or anyone else, because they want to put them in the corner with the rule of law criteria, and they want to create a Union where there is a will, which is inexplicable. We can talk about the European Parliament, it is an elected body, we can talk about the Commission, which is a delegated body, and we can talk about the Council of Heads of State and Government, which made a compromise decision this summer. Parliament has not complied with this. Parliament does not, by the way, have legislative powers within the Union, but has the right to an opinion. They made a different proposal, and the German Presidency is acting as if it were fighting a great deal, but it was happy to accept it. It's an EU act. You do not recognize who's interests are and how they want to prevail, and how they want to abolish the independence and sovereignty of nations forever, how they want to break national identities, and through this mechanism they give LGBT all kinds of rights in Hungary, which is completely contrary to our Fundamental Law, the situation of families, or how they will force migration on us, saying that if we do not accept migration rules, then this is also an opposition to a rule of law. You guys are playing a two-faced game, so to speak. On the surface, they talk about all kinds of rules and what Hungary does and does not respect. The excuses you mentioned about justice: we have an internal court system with OBT, the National Court of Justice Council, the National Court of Justice Office, and Luxembourg, where your favorite foreign minister is constantly pushing, who is a Communist foreign minister, it turns out that to this day the Grand Duke has appointed the judges. There is no judicial self-administration mechanism. The Attorney General is in charge of the DA's office. He appoints the prosecutors. These states want to lecture us when, in terms of the legal structure, we have fulfilled practically all the requirements at the time of accession and beyond. And now they want to get into a game like this! It's all about money. Whether the stingy states are behind it, regardless of whether the NGOs are behind it, regardless of whether it's the enforcement of left-wing dominance, it's totally unacceptable, no matter how much it hurts you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lajos Korózs, Member of the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current issues. [[Crying from the pro-government side, including Kamuvideo! The pro-government representatives are leaving the Chamber. László Varju: There's no need for you, feel free to go out.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-13	Thank you very much. Dear House, Before I get to the point, I just want to say that soon, time will justify me in a lot of ways. Minister of State Balázs Orbán said in public a few weeks ago that the government was preparing for the second wave of the epidemic by trying to supply health facilities with all kinds of protective equipment and buying hospital equipment, and now the non plus ultra national consultation took place during the summer. At the same time, ten million people in this country saw yachting, adriading, helicoptering during the summer. At the same time, Minister of State Balázs Orbán also noted that Ferenc Jakab, a virologist professor who leads the operational tribe that coordinates the work of the anti-virus task force, predicted what was likely to happen in the autumn, and, in a few weeks' time, what was predicted was that of Ferenc Jakab, a virologist. Dear fellow Members, As long as you've invited the statistics here, you know very well that the statistics that are available are real. I was helped by the hospital director a few days ago, who knows medical statistics pretty well, and a medical professor. Please, in Hungary, 130,000 people die roughly a year, in terms of one day's deaths, in each group of diseases they have collected for me the number of deaths per day and hold on, in most of the last ten days, I say, in most of the last ten days, the number of people who died in the corona virus has exceeded the value of all groups of diseases. In malignant cancer, the number of deaths per day is 87.7, 15.6. cardiac necrosis, 71.1 in other ischaemic diseases, 31.4 in cerebral vascular diseases, 17.1, in bronchitis and emphysema, in liver diseases, and no more. Fellow Members! I want you to recall the last week's mortality data on the number of people who died in the Covid infection. That's all I ask of you. It says science and the WHO says that you can control the epidemic if the infection rate is below 5% for all tested and tested people. Also, professors of medicine show me that every day since mid - September exceeded the 5 percent rate, and there were even days when it was over 30 percent. You know what I mean? ! So out of three people, one was guaranteed to be infected and a carrier of the virus. Fellow Members! These are numbers, these are statistics, these are percentages, but there are people behind them; there are people who want to live. I don't expect dead bodies, nor do I even want to abuse the situation that you created in this country. But please, behind the numbers and statistics, there's a 68-year-old kindergarten teacher who did volunteer work and was a grandmother. There's a 49-year-old bookshop salesman who was a theatre fan. There's a 28-year-old councilman, a good friend, a civil rights activist. There's a 71-year-old bank administrator who's a senior hockey player. And there's a 70-year-old high school teacher, a fisherman and a choir member. What do you say they don't live? ! Say, wouldn't they like to go with their granddaughter, like, collect chestnuts or sleigh in the winter? Therefore, I would like to have a meaningful answer to the fact that in the fight against the epidemic, you can provide additional assistance to health workers and workers in the social sector, at least one payment of HUF 500 000 for Christmas for those working in the social sector, if you have not done so on the day of social work, you are able to provide adequate protective equipment and daily testing, and you are able to provide them with sufficient rest. I look forward to your worthy answer, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-14	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[9.40]]
u2020-11-17-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, With all the power of the government, he's trying to provide support, help to the frontline fighters. That is why he made sure that protection equipment of much greater magnitude came into the country than spring, so he decided to double wages and therefore decided on a one-time special half-million-dollar allowance. I'd like to make it clear to you here that every human life counts. We will fight for everyone's lives, whether it be the lives of young people, the lives of middle - aged people, or the lives of our older compatriots. Allow me to add that we see in a series that they are campaigning with the deaths of people here in this House. I find this unworthy and heartless. [[The representatives of Fidesz and KDNP will return to the Chamber.]] When the government takes these decisions, these decisions are always taken in consultation with the epidemiological experts, on the basis of their proposals. I think it is a legitimate question that Hungary has taken action on time with the new defence measures. I would like to tell you that, if I compare it to the number of people infected, we have taken a population-proportional action before Belgium, Spain, the Czech Republic, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, and even before Austria. If you've spoken at this meeting, I wouldn't want to go against a scandal that is associated with your name. During the first wave, you presented a video of an alleged nurse talking about alleged victims of bed evacuations, and you said exactly that nine out of ten patients sent home were killed. Soon it turned out that it wasn't true, it was all bullshit. Neither was the number true, nor was the paramedic, so it was a fake paramedic. Despite this, the president of the MSZP entered this campaign, they brought this false news campaign into the House, Congresswoman Timea Szabó wanted it several times, at the committee meeting, and much of the Hungarian media took the false news, but the Financial Times, the American NBC and Euronews took over too. And when the scandal went off, they tried to cover their tracks-- they erased the video, and you said you weren't a cameraman, and they weren't investigating the main character, by the way. Well, you shouldn't have been investigating, it would have been enough to tell the truth, Your Honour. Since then, the fake rescue video has become a political symbol cast into concrete, a symbol of the fact that the left wants to create uncertainty in Hungarians during the epidemic; that they do not shy away from any means and that there is no limit that they do not cross, and these borders have been constantly crossed ever since. That's why they've been spreading false news about statistics, tests, respirators, and vaccines in the last few days. The left-wing fake news bag appears to be indecipherable in depth and enormous. Every left-wing Member who has allowed these false news campaigns by inaction with an active campaign, accomplice, or cowardice has a personal responsibility. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes!]] Honourable Congressman, Although I do not know that I will then use the right words, there is one thing you must know: there is no parliament in Europe today where, after such an outrageous political action, the chairman of the Health Commission could remain in place, especially if he bears personal responsibility for this shameful campaign. Notice that where we are, it's not the Complete Scam Show, it's our country, and it's in the middle of a serious epidemic. If you really respect those, if you really respect those you refer to, those who fight in the front line, then you will make your decision and stand up. All other options are the blow to the face of doctors, nurses and paramedics, and those who believe that lying cannot be part of everyday politics in Hungary. The fact is, honourable Member, you have not improved at all since the autumn faction meeting. Then they went down to the bottom of the political depths, and by the looks of it, they don't want to come back. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group, leaves the people alone again with the title Fidesz, to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-17	Mr President, Dear House, Winter is coming, we have a terrible winter ahead of us, and I think we can say that without a special gift. We need a real national unit right now. For me, what I have seen in this House in recent days from the representatives of the governing parties is blood-creeping. I can see that the new communication panels, ministers, ministers, ministers of state, representatives without any control are saying the same many times, often madness, without the least need of the national consensus, and, obviously, crisis management, all the responsibilities of the very failed crisis management are and will remain in the hands of this government alone. We can hear that, according to the new communication panels, the opposition is supposedly trying to create uncertainty, not by being a secretary of state, but by issuing orders, while the government itself has caused uncertainty by failing to prepare during the summer, instead of both testing capacity and the expansion of the professional staff, it has actually fled to luxury and urination, resting on spring fatigues. They're accusing a lot of public figures of spreading false news, while only my political community, Jobbik, has almost 300 winning press lawsuits against you, your punks and your servers, who are harassing our family members, they're using drones to film our relatives. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So you're the ones who dare to take any action? ! [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thirdly, according to your new communication panel yesterday, the opposition is campaigning for death, which is the most disgusting of you, while every second State Secretary's production report is about the fact that it's not so bright here, but you think that the country is beautifully protected, and that it's much worse elsewhere, that many more people are dying. This is the real death campaign. You should thank all health workers, workers in related sectors, and at least create a national consensus on epidemiological control here in Parliament. Compared to this, you have dealt with cross-border expansion of the real estate portfolio for your entrepreneurial friends during the crisis period, Budapest-Belgrád railway investment in the months of March, the promotion of high-level construction companies back home, and the full service and position of your real-estate friends, as well as a little pampering of the banking system when you forgot to ask them for a deposit in the CDC Fund, more precisely: they pay you on paper, but they can write this off from their taxes, while no one else can write this down from the tax, neither from a Hungarian small enterprise nor anyone, let us say, from the cadavers or micro-contractors sector. We can see that the Secretary of State can now have a lot of things, whether he can't or doesn't want to answer them, but let us not, for the record, miss to say what a decent government expert would now give a meaningful answer to in the hour before the agenda. For example, we could talk about MMA, not about mixed martial arts, but about one of my favourite sports, but about the Hungarian Workplace Protection Fund, which would make up 80 percent of all income lost, for all income lost, for those who have already lost their jobs. On the other hand, a very weak, selective model, possibly covering 50% of workers' wages in certain sectors, has been put in place by the government, while thinking about tourism, catering, not so much of the sectors that are intertwined with them, including taxi drivers and suppliers. If the economy were to be so well-built, this government would, in line with the concept of Jobbik and other opposition parties, make up 80 percent of all wages lost and finally release Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit system. It is quite simply infuriating that there is no message for all social groups to this government; who has lost his job, in three months it is certain that in the present situation he cannot rearrange his life, or very few. And what we see is that while we are talking about 300,000 unemployed, some 150,000 of them are not entitled to any benefits based on your system, your system. For the last ten years, therefore, you have the responsibility, as well as the ability to castrate a moratorium on credit repayment in such a way that only a quarter or a third of previous customers will be able to continue to benefit from this temporary, air-flowing discount as of 1 January. And we also see that as winter approaches, for you, respect the exception, but many times it's just barcodes for these people. Barcodes in a production report, but we can see behind them the real person and the fact that the people living in the apartments, their jobs have been lost, in many cases health workers simply have no message in a crisis situation for this government. That's why we're saying winter is coming, and it looks like it's gonna be a very difficult winter.
u2020-11-17-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[9.50]]
u2020-11-17-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member has made a long list of the need to help people in such a situation. That is true, Your Honour. You are a Member of Parliament, you are sitting here in Parliament; you were sitting here when the T/10748 was sitting here. We voted on a bill that maintained the credit moratorium. You voted for it? No. He was also sitting here when Parliament decided in this bill on the facilitation of compliance with tax obligations, on tax facilitations. You voted? No. He said that social assistance, family allowances, were very important. When Parliament decided to extend the rights of children, children and children here, did it vote? No. When we decided to extend social and child protection benefits, did you vote in favour? No. When we decided to extend rehabilitation benefits on account of the epidemic situation, did you vote? No, Your Honour. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Wrong!]] It is possible to stand up and give nice speeches, but it does not hurt to be accompanied by some of their actions which, in the case of a Member, are somewhat in line with their votes and sentences, at least they do not contradict. Here, in this proposal, from Jobbik to Balázs Ander to Koloman Brenner, Tamás Csányi, Róbert Dudás, Csaba Gyure, Péter Jakab, Gergely Kálló, György Lukács, Zoltán Magyar, Tibor Nunkovics [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are a good communist!]] János Stummer, Lajos Rig, Potocskané, Dániel Z. Kárpát, you have voted 'no', honourable Member, for this bill. What you have just said here is what a government should do, from your faction, to those listed, and a number of others have voted no here in Parliament. You shouldn't have done much, honourable Member, just voted in favour. Only then you were dictatorship [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I promise that we will not treat you like this after.22!]] That is why they did not have time to help the people, because the whole left had been dealing with the fact that Hungary was being left abroad and was shouting everywhere that dictatorship, dictatorship, including your representative, MEP, while others who were sent to Brussels, such as Benedek Jávor, said that it was a relatively inexpensive and harmless epidemic. But there are times when an honest sentence seems to slip through the mouths of left-wing politicians. Gábor Kerpel-Fronius, deputy mayor of the moment, said that there has been a very serious misunderstanding about the need to join forces in times of crisis and therefore must not be politicalised. On the other hand, my statement is strongly that this is the time when politics is the most important. Well, that's what you're following, as the Momentum's direction, that we should not unite in times of crisis, but that we should politicalise, and that's why you voted off the proposals that you have demanded. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Yacht! Yeah, yeah.]] On the other hand, during the summer, the government spent all its power to prepare for the second wave. I do not believe that you will find another country, honourable Member, which will double the pay of doctors during the outbreak of the Crown Virus and during the economic crisis. Name another country, honourable Member, which also helps to protect by doubling the wages of doctors. If you look at how we stood at the beginning of the first and second waves: at the beginning of the first wave we had 1.6 million masks, at the beginning of the second wave 100 million, at the beginning of the first wave we had 20 million pairs of rubber gloves, at the beginning of the second wave 95 million, at the beginning of the first wave we had 2560 respirators, at the beginning of the second wave we had more than ten thousand, at the beginning of the second wave nearly 16 thousand. And how did we spend the summer, Your Honour? We have announced trainings and further trainings for all hospitals, that since it was expected that there would be more and more patients in need of intensive care, who need hospital ventilation and invasive ventilation, so we have also started these training programmes, 67 hospitals have joined them, honourable Member, 27 000 registered for this training, 5833 doctors and 18 430 nurses, precisely so that we can prepare as many as possible for intensive care and invasive ventilation. Those who could go to these further trainings went personally, who could not go, we sent digital video-based educational material to those who could not go, so that if they could not go, they could prepare for the second wave, so that there would not only be more tools, not just more beds, but more prepared nurses, and more prepared doctors, too, honourable Member. When the time came for the numbers to be really higher throughout Europe, and so in Hungary, and more and more of them are infected, we also asked hospitals to postpone the planned surgeries, precisely so that the labour force thus released can be redirected to the care of patients with coronal viruses within the hospital. We have indeed done so, honourable Member. We really did. And all you're doing is covering for the Kamuvideo Koróss Lajos, because in one word, you're not saying that what you did was wrong. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are very weak! You're incredibly weak.]] and resign as Chairman of the Commission. You cover for me and you vote no, and we protect people. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Pathetic!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-17-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Földi, Member of the KDNP Group, entitled "Protection of families against the spread of the spiritual world," has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I'll start by thanking everyone on the front lines of the coronal virus epidemic for the lives and livelihoods of people. However, the pandemic is not the only challenge we face. A spiritual pandemic has long been devastating on earth. More and more people question the most basic human standards, the family, the child, the nation, and faith are values that are ridiculed, disfellowshipped and emptied every day, usually by those who claim to be champions of tolerance. Complete ideologies and countries are built up for abnormal thinking. They're launching a campaign to destroy the traditional family model. Those who confess and practice their faith suffer witch hunts. Those who organize and excite them don't believe in anything. That's the minor problem. The bigger problem is that they do everything to make sure that no one else believes in anything, not in the family, not in the child, not in the nation, not in the faith. These globalist, nihilist, individualist forces do not offer any alternative, they empty everything. If it doesn't matter about the nation, the border, the historical past, the faith, and even the humiliation, then the future doesn't matter. This is not the path that the Government of Hungary chose in 2010. However, it is important to stress that when we talk about Christianity, we are not talking about religion, especially the church. Then we are talking about the culture that created and preserved this country. Practicing religion or not exercising freedom is a fact. But it is also a fact that, in a sense, even an atheist, his ancestors, his traditions, his reading experiences, his holidays, his customs, his greetings are connected to this cultural circle. Dear Parliament, The new amendment of the Fundamental Law also serves this purpose, the fight against the pandemic of the spirit. Yes, it is indeed evident that the father is a man and the mother is a woman. Still, we have to write in the Fundamental Law because there are crazy ideologies that leave the children elsewhere to decide their own sex of birth as if it were a decision. Family's in danger, too. It is a proven fact that the best way to develop a child is to grow up in a community of love based on mutual agreement and commitment between a man and a woman, a father and a mother. Marriage is the most proven form of this. Everyone wants to find their partner, and the long - term meaning of their relationship is to raise children and children. Anyone who doesn't succeed for some medical reason wants to adopt an abandoned child. Even in this case, it's in the child's best interest, his right must be the first. And it's in the child's interest to grow up in a family, not in an institution, not on the street, not with a parent, not with two fathers or two mothers, but in a family. That is why we prefer to adopt married couples, which does not mean that singles should not take place, nor that their adoption would be decided by a minister. Of course, it is also decided by experts on the basis of professional studies, but we undertake that we want to adopt children primarily for married people, a man and a woman. Not because it's in Fidesz-KDNP's interest, but because it's in the children's interests. All the elements of these measures follow the objective of keeping families together, having children, and ultimately maintaining the nation. I know that the political pathogens of the spiritual pandemic do not want Hungary to survive. They are so small-minded and self-hating that they would be happy to see Hungary melted up in some European or global jar, which we really know only that we have to deny ourselves in that, free-living people have free money, and we have to hand over control to rich aliens. Well, we won't! [[10.00]] We also confirm with our new provisions on family protection that we protect families and children in the most difficult times, because the common value must always be more important [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the personal interest. We're not gonna apologize for that because we're proud of it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-17-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President, on behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we are in the middle of the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, when the spread of the epidemic has accelerated both in Europe and in Hungary. In Hungary, we are doing everything we can to preserve the functioning of hospitals and to protect the lives of the most vulnerable, the elderly. Right now, health protection is the most important thing, and I therefore agree with Mr President, that everyone should be thanked for the work that they do, whether in health care or in education, for everyone in their place. Thank you all for your sacrifice. Dear House, Since 2010, we have been pursuing a policy in Hungary with the support of the majority of Hungarians, which protects our fundamental values; protects the safety of families; protects our national belongings and protects our Christian values. In 2010, a family-friendly turnaround took place in Hungary. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children or raise children in Hungary. Therefore, in order to give examples, we have increased the amount of support for families by 2.5 times since 2010. In 2015, we introduced the family home support discount, introduced the family tax relief, which can be used by nearly 1 million families. A baby shower of 10 million may be awarded to young married couples, or large family members may claim car shopping aid, and according to a bill to be negotiated today, the amount of the baby care fee will increase from the previous 70 percent to 100 percent of gross salary as of July 1, 2021. In addition, we are working to launch Hungary's largest home-building programme, helping families and helping economic operators, businesses as well. According to some of these points, who buys a new home after January 2021, instead of 27 percent, they pay 5% VAT, and even those who purchase it using the CSOK will be completely released this 5% VAT. From 1 January 2021, the State will cover half of the family's renovation costs, up to HUF 3 million, and from 1 January 2021 parents, families who use CSOK to purchase new or used residential property will be exempted from the payment of a 4 per cent return on property. In addition, as you have said, we need to protect our fundamental values, which is why we now have many legislative proposals before this House. One of these is the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law must always respond to the challenges of the age. This is also the case with the amendment of the basic law that has just been tabled. Even a few years ago, we did not think that in 2020 we would need to record natural things in the Fundamental Law for the Hungarian people, such that marriage is a community based on the voluntary decision of a man and a woman, or that the mother is a woman, the father is a man. Or even the right of a little boy to grow up as a little boy, a little girl to grow up as a girl. This has become necessary in Hungary, which is why the fundamental law amendment is still a part of family protection, and that is why we are also dealing with adoption. Our goal is to grow up in every child's family. One of the options is adoption. When biological parents give up their children, children are gradually transferred from their children's homes to foster parents. We have been working for years to make adoption faster and simpler so that children can get into a family as soon as possible. Last year was the first year when the number of adopted children exceeded the number of adopted children, so fewer children are in child protection than before. It also shows that we always have children's interests in mind. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, we will continue to protect our fundamental values and stand up for the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. We thank everyone we can count on for their support in this work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-17-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-17-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Minister Lords! Hungary has successfully, unparalleledly successfully defended itself against the first wave of the epidemic, thanks to the victimous work of health workers, citizens' compliance with the rules and the timely measures taken by the government, and as a result, unlike other countries, we have been able to prevent thousands of deaths. Despite the coronal virus epidemic, the left couldn't take a good form, so he continued attacking government measures and his unlimited criticism. This is unprecedented in Europe, as at the time of the outbreak, parties even joined together in countries where they have been fighting political stalemate for many years. Now the coronal virus epidemic continues to rage in the world, including in Europe, Hungary. The situation is very serious. The left-wing politicians re-enacted themselves and showed their true faces. Now, when the number of infected is over 55 million, and the deceased have almost 1 million 300 thousand people all over the world, and the situation is getting worse and worse, Lajos Korózs, politician of MSZP, chairman of the National Assembly's Public Welfare Committee on Health, has forged a secondary sense of shame in all the representatives responsible for their fellow citizens by the Kamuvideos scandal in spring, in order to obtain false proof of their political claims. He did this, doing so in public, on his Facebook page, spreading false information widely, and, moreover, calling his followers to further share in the Kamube post, so that they should share it further. And when the Chief Advisor of the Momentum comments his reservations about the content published by the Kamuvideos Korózs, the entry suddenly becomes unavailable, and the fake producer trusts silence in the absence of embarrassing consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, These stories perfectly symbolize the sense of responsibility of left-wing politicians. Irresponsiblely, without the utmost caution, to take a stand on professional, statistical matters, to shoot dramatic videos with a con artist who calls herself a paramedic, and then to gain political advantage by using the lies she tells, and when the truth comes out at the end of the day, without any apology, to continue the so-called work, to call a meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, what's more to be said in the debate of the law on protection against the Second Wave of the Coronary Virus, my opposition politicians, do you seriously think that such a professional, human, social attitude is sufficient to govern a country in times of distress? ! While the necessary measures taken by the government for defence are constantly being attacked, they question our decisions, and you cannot publish a miserable Facebook post without error, scandal, and false fact? I believe that it is clear to all reasonable and open-minded people that the left can no longer perform the most fundamental tasks of opposition politicians, let alone make decisions determining the fate of the country, and guide them in uncertain times. [[10.10]] We need to use all our resources to control the epidemic, and we need to work together. I would like to ask my honourable left-wing colleagues that, if they do not wish to help the defence, at least the government's work should not be hindered, the results achieved should not be fraudulently counterfeited and that false statements of fact disturbing the calm of citizens should not be ignored. By covering for the Kamuvideos Korózs Lajos, they admit that they are not really interested in overcoming the difficulties caused by the epidemic, but in gaining the power for which we believe nothing is expensive. If you think it's the responsibility of a responsible opposition during a pandemic, there's more trouble in your benches than we thought. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-17-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I'd like to quote a sentence from someone, "I'm a decent man." I think I'm a much better politician than usual. I wonder where that quote came from. I think a lot of people will find out, that's how Lajos Korózs classified himself, the kamuvideos Korózs, who spread false news in front of an entire country. He said he thought it was better than normal! He's a better politician. He may have reached the MSZP level when he said that, and that's why Lajos Korózs used such a rating about himself. I think everyone else can see that we are also dealing with a politician, and this is how we are facing the entire left, for whom political attack, political gain is far more important than the fight against the epidemic. If they have to decide in a decision-making situation to spread false news that threatens the effectiveness of the defence, or that they do not spread unfairly untrueness, but they also try to help the effectiveness of the control of the epidemic, they will always choose what they consider to be politically more rewarding in the short term and even commit to spreading false news. They admitted that when a video of the Momentum was released, they were not ashamed of each other to contribute to the dissemination of untruths if they hoped for short-term political success. You might think that at least the epidemic situation is a time when it is more important to help fight the truth and the epidemic than short-term political gain, the political survival of a politician, but it does not seem to be the case in the left. Lajos Korózs is only the top of this case, since the entire left is up to his neck. It includes Bertalan Tóth, who knew about this in advance as the party's president, and approved the production of this video, who then shared it on his Facebook page, who led him to conduct an internal investigation in one day, which did not result in any kind of result, no one's hair was bent. But it also includes Szabó Timea, who referred to Athina Németh in the same way as Lajos Korózs, either here at the plenary session or at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee. None of them apologized, none of them followed the public, none of them admitted that they were spreading untruths, that they were making Kamuvideos, that they had false news. None of them admitted this, and did not apologize, but went on as if nothing had happened and even piled up these fake news, as Lajos Korózs showed statistics from 2016 as if they were statistics during a coronal virus epidemic. So, Lajos Korózs has become a repulsive fake news producer who, rather than withdraw from the chairmanship of the People's Welfare Committee, has brought more and more false news, and we can expect nothing else from him. Do we want the head of the Health Committee of the Hungarian Parliament to be a man who, in full publicity, spread news, spread camuvides, which have turned out to be completely false? Is he the best? There is not a single politician on the whole left who is better suited to lead the Public Welfare Committee on Health during the epidemic than a man who introduces a man who has never worked for the National Rescue Service as a paramedic, and almost every sentence he has said has been disproved? And do you really prefer to protect this politician? The co-president of the MSZP says that he did the right thing by making the video, the Socialist Party, and that they would rewrite it. Lajos Korózs, who believed that Hungary was Hungarian, was protected by Lajos Korózs, who said that he said that Hungary belongs to the Hungarians? They're so stupid. There are no Hungarians in Hungary. What's the matter with you? And it would be possible to continue the excellent golden spitting of Lajos Korózs that Hungary cannot belong to Hungarians, because he believes that Hungarians do not live in Hungary, so they cannot have it. And what we have to say is that the left in Hungary is not alone in this, just as in the case of the other series of attacks, because they were eager to take this news abroad, and they are trying to set up Hungary abroad as if it were not good to defend itself, and in connection with surgeries delayed due to beds designed to treat patients with coronal viruses, as they were said in this video, which revealed that nine out of ten patients were dead, since they were taken over by international television channels, international news portals from the Financial Times to Euronews, and still remain on their website according to their original content. They hold the Kamuvideo of Lajos Korózs in the same way as Lajos Korózs protects the entire left in the chair of the People's Welfare Committee. And Lajos Korózs must resign because it is not possible that short-term political gain is more important than the control of the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Several congressmen are talking standing up.]] I ask you all to take your seats. I ask the technical staff of this House, the hall service, to check the condition of the horseshoe's voting machines for their conversion. [[It's a short break.]] The hall service has completed the inspection of the horseshoe's voting machines, so from here we will continue our work on the agenda. I ask my fellow opposition Members to take their seats so that they do not have a reference that they did not understand in time the questions that the President would ask you from up here. [[Szabó Timea stands between the benches and talks with Dr. Tamás Harangozó.]] In today's decisions, we also decide to adopt legislative proposals requiring a qualified majority. I'll have Szabó Timea, head of the group, take a seat. Sit down. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Szabó Timea: No!]] Then no. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rules 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill, this also extends without a further separate decision to the omission of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] 179 the number of persons present, 20 the number of persons absent, and the Parliament has a quorum. The next step is the T/13468 Agreement between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and evasion in the field of income taxes. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13468. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 180 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows now that T/13262 on the amendment of individual laws in connection with registers and electronic administration is being followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[10.20]] T/13262/7 and T/13262/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13262/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, no votes against, with 51 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13262/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 127 votes in favour, no votes against, with 53 abstentions. The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. T/13257 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13257/7 and T/13257/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 126 against and four abstentions. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 126 against and 2 abstentions. Dear House, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13257/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with 13 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13257/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with 12 abstentions. It is now up to the CVI of 2007 on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and on State-owned assets. T/13260. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13260/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13260/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 9 against and 44 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13260/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 127 votes to 127, 7 against, 47 abstentions. Next up is the T/13261 on family farms. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13261/15 and T/13261/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the house rules are set at 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 10, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 10 is proposed by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is also the motion of Member Erzsébet Schmuck. In order to maintain the proposed amendment, two thirds of the Members of Parliament present must vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 127 against and 17 abstentions. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. The vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present is also necessary to maintain this. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 123 against and 18 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 21 and points 51 and 52 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13261/15. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 168 votes in favour, 1 against and 13 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13261/15. The points that require a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with 12 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13261/18. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 174 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. [[10.30]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13261/18. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 175 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. Next up is T/13108 on the amendment of certain energy laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/13108/5 and its report T/13108/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 21 and 22, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13108/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 28 against and 16 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13108/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 27 against and 21 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13108/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 150 votes in favour, 27 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13108/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 149 votes in favour, 28 against and 4 abstentions. It follows that T/13263 on the amendment of certain climate policy laws will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13263/6, and T/13263/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is a motion by Member Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 127 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13263/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, no votes against, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13263/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 160 votes in favour, no votes against, with 21 abstentions. It follows that T/13476 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the change in the status of persons employed in the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13476/7; and T/13476/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13476/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 52 against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13476/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes to 55, with three abstentions. T/13478 on the amendment of certain laws to facilitate the connection of real estate utilities Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13478/8, and T/13478/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 tabled by Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mr László Szakács. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section T/13478/8 of the MSZP Group A separate vote was initiated on point 9 of the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13478/8. Point 9 of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requested for a separate vote by 149 votes in favour, 11 against and 16 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13478/8. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 46 against and 7 abstentions. [[10.40]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13478/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 126 votes in favour, 31 against and 22 abstentions. It follows now that Act L of 2018 on Hungary's central budget for 2019 will be implemented by T/13098. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13098. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 124 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/13258 on the amendment of certain tax laws will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13258/8. T/13258/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained and the Group of the LMP proposed amendments No 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ms Anita Kőrösi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 123 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 123 against and 16 abstentions. Amendment No 4 is also proposed by Mr Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 123 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13258/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 21 against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13258/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes in favour, 20 against and 32 abstentions. Thank you for your cooperation. We've reached the end of the decisions. Now it's a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Fellow Members! We'll get back to work. Take your seats. We are now continuing our work with general debates. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you would like to focus on the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation during your stay in the room, as well as during your discussions with each other. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Balczó: Mr President, you can also talk in the corridor! I suggest that the people present...]] My dear colleague, following the instructions of my former vice-president, I, too, am telling you what he said, is true. I ask the two ladies with all due respect, and I am very pleased that, with their decorative appearance here in the horseshoe, they are raising the level of parliament, but still take their seats. [[Dr. Orsolya Pacsay-Tomassich and Dr. Zsófia Koncz are leaving the Chamber. Zoltán Balczó applauds.]] Thank you very much. It follows a joint general debate on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets and financial matters, as well as on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets until closure. Government referrals T/13672. and T/13673. can be accessed by numbers on the House's IT network for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr János Fónagy State Secretary, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth, the author of the legislative proposals, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposals before you are fundamentally similar in terms of their regulatory scope, which justified their joint general debate. Both proposals provide for the free transfer of state assets, some of which include provisions other than the National Property Act. Their acceptance requires a qualified majority. [[10.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, the aim of the bill concerning certain provisions concerning the management of assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets is to transfer state-owned assets free of charge to the Hungarian National Philharmonic Orchestra, Choir and Kottatár Nonprofit Kft. and Filharmónia Hungary Concert and Festival Organizer Nonprofit Kft. to enable the transfer of state-owned movable property to natural persons using it under agreements of use concluded with the Governmental Informatics Development Agency, and to ensure the free ownership of state-owned real estate and related property by Ménesbirtok Zrt. For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. The assets of the law are not necessary for the performance of other public tasks; they are provided free of charge by MNF Nonprofit Kft., Filharmónia Magyarország Nonprofit Kft. and may take place on the basis of a request from the Government's Agency for Informatics Development. The free ownership of movable property is necessary to facilitate the provision of public tasks related to both companies' singing and music cultures and to improve the quality of life and to facilitate the integration into the digital space of persons who conclude agreements with the Government's IT Development Agency. Some properties and their belongings are given free ownership by Ménesbirtok Zrt. necessary to facilitate the performance of its public tasks in cultural, heritage, education and vocational training. In the context of the restructuring of ownership conditions during the period of the change of regime, state-owned assets were transferred into the ownership of municipalities with a view to guaranteeing the assets necessary for the operation of the municipalities, but, in order to conclude these processes, the transfer decisions in the real estate register were not or were not fully transferred. The rules of the fundamental law on national assets rule out the creation of shared property between the State and a municipality, which prevents real estate registration settlement. The present amendment allows the creation of shared ownership between the State and the municipality, in particular in respect of spaces, parks and public gardens, by ensuring that its exclusive national wealth protection level is not compromised in this case. The amendment concerns the Annex to the National Property Act, the scope of monument-protected structures and structures considered to be national assets of major national importance for the national economy. With the amendment, the Esterházy Palace in Sopron once again acquires the status of high-profile national assets, and the Wenckheim Palace and its park in Szabadszerkós are removed from the Annex for other public purposes. With regard to these latter properties, a permanent disposal and debit ban is recorded in the real estate register for the benefit of the State. Dear House, In order to ensure an adequate public asset management framework, the bill establishes the conditions for implementing legal transactions relating to transferable securities introduced into the regulated market of the State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. The bill lays down an exception rule for the powers of the majority-owned companies of the State or the local government to take decisions on the acquisition and liquidation of shares. State or local government majority-owned companies that engage in business capital financing for development purposes should make a substantial number of decisions on participation in the establishment of an entity, otherwise acquisition or transfer of shareholdings compared to other companies. Such cases are part of the normal business of these companies and therefore, given their time-consuming nature, decisions should be taken by the management of the company instead of the principal body, given the need for rapid decisions in the case of capital investment. The Law on the Central European Built Heritage Conservation Foundation established in order to promote the conservation of certain buildings which are not protected by monuments or monuments but of high value and which are of high importance for the Hungarian aspect of the Central European region should be amended or clarified in respect of the assets to be transferred due to the circumstances arising during the implementation of the foundational asset allocation. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill on certain provisions concerning the management of assets and the amendment of certain laws on property management and financial matters is, on the one hand, to provide the Maltese Charity Service with state-owned property free of charge for the Maltese Charity Service. The properties covered by the law are not necessary for the performance of a public function, they are provided free of charge on the basis of a request from the Maltese Charity Service. The service of charity aims to develop real estate in the area, which serves the organisation's public service and social tasks more effectively, as well as to provide housing conditions for health and social workers. It is a moderate amendment, but still important for practice, that the bill ensures that aid from the National Cultural Fund is not only eligible for a grant contract, but can also be granted in the future within the limits provided by the Public Finance Act. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill will also amend the Annex to the Sports Act. The aim of this is to put state-owned properties as defined in the bill into the management of the wealth of high-traditional sports associations in Budapest, such as the Újpest Gymnastics Association, the Hungarian Body Practitioners' Kere Budapest Sport Association and the Budapest Vasutas Sport Club Zugló Public Use Association. The transfer of real estate to asset management helps to achieve the goals set out in the association's sport development strategy, improve competition, training and recreational sport. Dear House, The bill before you also amends and clarifies the provisions of the State Property Act relating to the appointment of owners of state-owned companies, the sale of state assets and the free transfer of state assets. The modification and addition of the assignment of shareholders' rights are adapted to changes in the company portfolio, while changes in the sale of state assets are required by the application of the law and by the harmonisation of changes to the state's assets, but not within the scope of the State's Property Act, in recent years. Within the framework of the proposal, the bill, which reflects the Government's intention to designate the National Waterworks Private Works Company as the holder of ownership rights over state-owned water utility providers and state-owned water utility systems, puts operational mechanisms on a single sector basis, makes the use of budgetary and EU funds more efficient, and facilitates the economic operation of state-owned water utility providers and water utility elements on the basis of the existing professional pool. [[11.00]] The bill allows financial institutions, in cooperation with the universal postal service provider, to provide all the services and make available the commercial goods used or necessary for the use of the postal service, in cooperation with the universal postal service provider. can also be found in metropolitan mails. The range of goods is limited to the range of services and product products expected and widely used by people living in small towns. This amendment supports the pilot programme to ensure that savings and mail can be operated jointly. According to the proposal, again Magyar Posta Zrt. is designated as universal postal service provider. This will ensure, from 1 January 2021, that universal postal service is available throughout the country, regardless of its geographical location, in a given quality and at an affordable price for all users. Dear House, The proposal also provides that, as part of the process of centralising the procurement of healthcare providers, as regards the private limited public limited liability company, the State Health Supply Centre is replaced by the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply as an exercise in ownership of the healthcare provider, which performs the actual purchasing task of the county consolidation. Dear Parliament, In addition to what has been said, the bill also provides for the amendment of the law on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. Its aim is to expand the range of state-owned companies which can be involved in the performance of the public tasks under the Tourism Act, with companies under ownership by the Minister for Tourism and the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The work of accommodation providers obliged to transmit data in the tourist hosting service has been fundamentally affected by the Covid-19 epidemic. With regard to time limits, it is appropriate and necessary to make amendments to ensure that the adverse effects of the situation arising from the epidemic are resolved in a satisfactory manner in the case of accommodation service providers, ensuring that the modified time limits are complied with correctly and that enforcement practices are possible. It also relates to asset management and tourism issues to the successful implementation of the Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020 and to the provisions related to certain international major events in the 14th of 2019. amendment of the law. On the basis of government support for the organisation of speed-engine world championships, Keleti-Hungarian Competition Ltd. It will make major investments in the creation of a speed-engine world championship. High quality and significant improvements are needed in the short term for priority investments, which will be facilitated by the provisions contained in the bill by the deadline. Dear House, Both legislative proposals contain provisions and a significant part of the legislative proposals are the provisions of Section XVI of 1991 on the concession. Amendments to Act No 6 and related provisions related to concessions under the Sectoral Laws on Rail, Mining, Water Management, Passenger Transport, Gambling Organisation and Tobacco Trade. The purpose of the classic concession is that the State or the municipality may transfer the right to exercise the exclusive economic activity to the concession holder in a contract with the concession holder temporarily and for a maximum period of 35 years under a concession contract. Since the entry into force of the concession law in May 1991, nearly thirty years have passed, while domestic economic and social conditions have changed significantly. The use of large-scale concession structures requiring long-term commitment from both the state and the private sector also shows an increasing international outlook on the efficient and effective operation of the national economy. According to international practice, there has been an increase in concession activity in states over the last decades. The purpose of the amendment to the concession law is to establish a transparent, fast and efficient concession procedure system that also meets international trends. The main element of the amendment is the division of concession powers between the Minister of the Sector and the Minister appointed in the separate Government Decree. Pursuant to the rules of division of powers, the conduct of the concession tender and tender procedures and the conclusion of the concession contract will fall within the competence of the Minister designated in the Government Decree. The designated minister shall be assisted in the preparation, conduct of the concession procedures and in the conclusion of the concession contracts by the central government administration designated in the Government Decree. The professional care of the concession contract and the proper implementation of the national asset management principle of the concession contract remain with the sectoral ministers. On the basis of the bill, the jury with the power to propose a concession procedure shall ensure that the professional, national asset management and public finance interests of the sector are pursued. The new provision of the concession law is the legislative clause, which is known in the Hungarian concession law exercise, for example in the case of motorway concession contracts and in the practice of investment protection agreements. The relevant French, Polish, German and international concession practice also recognises the principle that, in the event of a change in the fundamental circumstances governing the legal relationship, the party concerned may require amendments to the contract on which the legal relationship is based or, where appropriate, appropriate compensation. In the absence of a different provision of an international contract or a different obligation of Hungary under an international contract, the bill also provides the parties with the possibility of providing for a Hungarian or foreign arbitration court. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask that T/13672 and T/13673. To discuss legislative proposals and to support the regulatory intentions expressed therein. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President, for your patience. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-30	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[11.10]]
u2020-11-17-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On 10 November 2020, the Government submitted legislative proposals on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and amending certain laws concerning the management of assets and financial matters, as well as on certain provisions concerning the management of assets and amending certain laws. The bill on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets and financial matters is No T/13672. Its main objective is to adopt, based on the experience gained by law enforcement, the laws and amendments presented below to ensure a uniform interpretation of the law, as well as the changes to the state's assets and the management of assets in recent years, through the legislation contained in the proposal, through some 17 laws. Without the need for completeness, the proposal provides for, inter alia, free of charge, the transfer of property belonging to the State outside of Bicske to the Maltese Charity Service. The original function of the real estate, everyone remembers it, was an alien police reception camp, and perhaps everyone also remembers the storms that were there in 2015 during the migration crisis, as well as in the camp. In connection with this law, we must also say that the citizens of Bicske can trust that there will never be a refugee camp or a migration centre around their city. I would also like to note, of course, that this does not relate to the law, that it has also succeeded in eliminating refugee camps and migration centres there, not only through laws, but also through improvements in Kiskunhalas. In one place a prison was created, in the other place a leisure and horse centre was created. So there is no need to fear that there will be a refugee camp or a migration centre at any time, either Bicske or Kiskunhalas. The Maltese Love Service will then develop real estate on real estate to ensure the housing conditions of health and social workers. In order to support the sports development ideas of certain major sports clubs in Budapest with a high tradition, the proposal designates associations such as BVSC, Újpest Gymnastics Association or MTK Budapest Sport Association as trustees for several properties. By adding the properties indicated in the proposal to asset management, it can be helped to achieve the goals set out in the sports development strategy of the associations and to further strengthen the training of replacements. The proposal also concerns the Water Services Act. It aims to ensure that the legal situation of the current state-owned water utility systems, which are not recognised as exclusive public property in the national property law, is also settled, both in terms of liability for care and in terms of the water utility service relationship. According to the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, the amendment concerns a small number of water utility systems, for which the current service provider will remain the same, so there will be no change for users. In essence, it is a technical amendment that will clarify the regulation. In addition, the proposal allows financial institutions, in cooperation with the universal postal service provider, to provide all the services offered by mobile phone uploading, gambling services that enable the public to sell commercial goods for or necessary for the use of postal services, envelopes, boxes, postcards and postcards for the packaging of postal items, which are Magyar Posta Zrt. can also be found in metropolitan mails. The additional portfolio elements are limited to the services and product scope expected and widely used by people living in small towns. The amendment facilitates the achievement of the service concentration embodying the objectives of the.-Hungarian village. In order to mitigate the disadvantages of small settlements, village service centres make these settlements more attractive to those living there and those wishing to settle down by providing access to services and public services. And perhaps it is not too late, as in the last year, a large number of savings cooperative offices have ceased to exist in many parts of the country, and this may also be used to replace these services in municipalities where these banking additional services are lacking. Finally, I think it is important to mention the changes to the concession law. In nearly thirty years since the entry into force of the law, domestic economic and social relations have changed significantly. The legislative objective is a comprehensive amendment to the concession law and related legislation on the organisation of gambling, retail trade in tobacco products, road transport, passenger transport, water management and water utilities, mining legislation. The overall amendment also justifies the need to adapt procedures to changed social and economic needs by reducing administrative burdens and simplifying procedures with appropriate guarantees. The proposal is also linked to economic re-launch measures in the context of the Covid-19 epidemic. The amendment will lead to the establishment of a concession procedure that is simple, fast and efficient, as well as adequate legal guarantees for the proper economic cooperation between the State and the concession holder, the core elements of national asset management. Dear House, T/13653. on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets The basic objective of the bill is to facilitate the efficient performance of public tasks of public companies and the digital catch-up of persons in need through the free transfer of state assets, and to adopt, based on the experience of law enforcement, the necessary provisions for a uniform interpretation of the law, and, in recent years, to introduce changes in national assets and the management of assets through the National Property Act. The proposal also serves such good purposes as the National Philharmonic Orchestra, Choir and Kottatár Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, the free ownership of movable property belonging to the Hungarian State in order to facilitate the provision of tasks as a key national cultural institution. The proposal also provides a solution for Filharmónia Magyarország Nonprofit Kft. a satisfactory settlement of the legal situation of movable property elements necessary for the performance of its cultural public tasks. The purpose of the provision is to ensure that the assets concerned are the Filharmónia Magyarország Nonprofit Kft. Filharmónia Magyarország Nonprofit Kft. should be provided with free ownership of Filharmónia Magyarország Nonprofit Kft. its operation and the performance of the public cultural tasks of the State as defined in its articles of association. The proposal also provides for the free ownership of the Wenckheim castle complex and its park in Szabadkeresztós by the State-owned Ménesbirtok Zrt. of the sale ban with comments. Finally, the proposal includes fundamental amendments to the concession law, such as a clarification of the exclusive economic activity of the State and the municipality. According to the bill, the National Property Act 12. Paragraph 2 (2) (g) includes, as a new exclusive economic activity of the municipality, the development and operation of railway tracks forming part of and in the use of the tribal assets of the municipality. A legislative clause will also be introduced. The legislative clause is well-known in the Hungarian concession law exercise, for example in motorway concession contracts and in the practice of investment protection agreements, although we were not so happy about it. The relevant French, Polish and German international concessional practices also recognise the principle that, in the event of a change in the legal regime as a condition governing the legal relationship, the party concerned may require amendments to the contract on which the legal relationship is based or, where appropriate, appropriate compensation. At present, disputes relating to concession contracts are, in principle, governed by the General Court and the Jurisdiction Court, and the proceedings of an international arbitration tribunal may only be brought in the case of foreign exchange counterparties. On the basis of the amendment, the possibility of a foreign or Hungarian arbitration court is generally insured in the absence of a foreign element, provided that an international contract or other international obligation does not preclude this. Dear House, On behalf of our performance, I would like to ask all of you that T/13672. and T/13653. The amendments contained in the legislative proposals are adopted and supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Bányai. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-11-17-33	Mr President, Dear House, They have not put the Secretary of State in an easy position once again, because, in my professional respect, we must say that he is committed to the impossible, when a package is put before us, which deals with the organisation of gambling, mining, water management, sport, a little with rail transport, but also with the world fair in Dubai. We see that ten years later, I am expressing respect for Hungarian parliamentarianism and stressing that I am not addressing this to you, but that it has generally fallen to the system and the government at a level that is quite amazing. [[11.20]] With a slightly wider outlook, committee meetings will be cancelled because if the pro-government majority does not like an agenda, they will simply vote off it, bring another one, overwrite it, rape it, even the insurmountable one. And it amends the granite-solid Fundamental Law at short intervals, depending on the direction in which the party's political intentions and will are taking it, as we see now. This package is largely influenced by the changes to the proposed basic law amendment regarding public funds, and by the way, they bring the one-time TV viewer or broadcaster closer to the Hungarian reality. I used to point my finger at the Secretary of State, and I promise I'll do it a few more times that this government had a promise from 2010. If we are talking about the transfer of different national and state assets, then we could do this most effectively in the coordinate system of a national asset inventory, which shows how much family silver is quoted, from which Hungary can manage. Here I always say that national wealth is not to be confused with state wealth, we are talking about two very different professional categories, and there was a primitive register, which listed certain national assets, I always say that this was missing the Chain Bridge; fortunately, Parliament, where we are debating, was involved, but could not obtain professional seriousness and recognition from the proposal at that time. Obviously, this may be the reason why they didn't even start cosmeticizing it, but they let it go quietly. We can see that this government is working in an amazing double dimension. The fact that he is starting to transfer assets to foundations, educational institutions and other kinds of people is not in itself unprecedented in the world, so we have seen it many times. We have seen less often that there is a law on national assets, which has provisions, and that these regulations no longer apply to the transferred assets. Let us see what are those that can no longer be used in the case of assets that have been played out with this and other proposals, since they are not specifically and explicitly covered by the law on national assets. There is an obligation to report annually on the exploitation of the transferred property to the entity transferring the property, and such a clearing obligation could be imposed here on the Hungarian taxpayers. This applies to national assets in principle and does not apply to outsourced assets. Secondly, there has been the possibility that, if the legislation on recovery has been found to have not acted in accordance with those rules, the party receiving the property has acted in breach of the law, this infringement status has so far been terminated. This option, since the law on national assets does not apply to the transferred assets, is also lost, and thus the right to withdraw from the existing contract and thus the possibility of the assets being returned so far have been provided in accordance with the provisions and no longer exists in respect of the transferred assets. That is why we can see that when another HUF 800 million goes to MotoGP, and my friend Ádám Steinmetz said that on another location a similar investment could be completed from pennies, when Fidesz is conducting a warlike and seemingly patriotic rhetoric in Hungary, and lobbying the Union abroad so that the subsidy threshold, with which he can support large companies in Hungary, can rise and increase, so that the perverse redistribution is even more high, we can see that they are playing a terrible double game. When they start to play with the concept of public money in the Fundamental Law, we also see that it has declared goals. It is not only about making the use of tao money even less transparent, and I say that as an active athlete, sport-friendly and football fan, the current Tao system is a hotbed of abuse, and indeed allowed to build village pyramids and, where appropriate, to build a stadium halfway across the street from our property, which may have the capacity to exceed the host's settlement, but we cannot talk about the professional work that expands a wide range of replacement bases there. You can see that the Tao system has been run over by about 800 billion forints an insufferably high amount, right? If we want to make this visible, we need to go, say, to the budgetary or discharge debate, where we see that the Hungarian population is paying VAT every year, over HUF 4000 billion in the budget; a little over 2000 billion in personal income tax; a little over 300 billion in corporate tax, so a fraction of what is being deducted from the population by taxes on consumption, and this 300 billion includes the fact that the multi-company companies operating here also receive horrific discounts, unjustified discounts. And this fraction, compared to 300 billion, was over 240 billion in Tao during this period. Therefore, the magnitude is about as high as corporate tax revenue. We can also see that there is a difference between a few billion and two, but it should be quite different. Corporate tax revenue should be much higher and the distribution of tao money should be much more follow-up and transparent. But why are we talking about the tao so much? Because the narrowing and redefining of the concept of public money also affects the fate of state revenues and assets organised in foundations in the Fundamental Law, because they are also something that the majority of governments want to force into granite strength, that as a fundamental law, it is much more difficult to maintain, review, touch, forgive, undo the hussar cuts that we do not agree with at all, and, obviously, after a possible change of government, very many people want to launch a review process. We also see that the costs of public companies and foundations close to the state can be much easier to hide after this amendment. What scares me is that the government doesn't even make a secret out of it, so it doesn't even try to deny it with at least such a plasticized argument and communication panels, and it is questionable that the new definition of public money is followed by a new definition of public wealth or state or national wealth, as one comes from another. So if, from now on, the assets donated or transferred by the state are to be removed completely from the verifiable sphere, then we will have an honest conversation because the government cannot do this under the radar. With regard to public-interest trust foundations, they want to write in the Fundamental Law that there is a fundamental law on the establishment, termination and operation of them, obviously the justification here is a bit false, but let us wait for the debate, let us see what the government's argument system is about. However, we also see that there are very unpleasant traditions in Hungary when something loses its public money character. In the scandals around the Hungarian National Bank, when the MNB transferred 260 billion to its foundations, this money could already be said to have escaped the influence of the government sector, it was excluded from the influence of Hungarian parliamentarism. And that, in my opinion, is outrageous. Secretary of State, explain to me that a slightly overrepresented economy such as Germany has been able to reach it with a parliamentary decision compared to us, by amending roughly the National Bank Act, that the profits generated there will be paid to the state budget as a compulsory dividend. Why don't we start in the same direction in Hungary? After all, it would be perfectly logical that, let us say, the proceeds from the weak forint exchange rate should not have come down at the Hungarian National Bank as a profit and then moved to art and painting, but should at least have been paid into the budget, where further, which could have partly helped those who had already been evicted or those who had been harmed by foreign currency loans. But we see that this is still optional in Hungary, and it is up to you. They had ten years to do it, and they could have done it with a single amendment. I would add that the Hungarian National Bank Act also provides that a central bank may have an exchange rate target. And what I am saying is that it should have an exchange rate target, at least that forint/euro exchange rate acquisition that is causing a lot of Hungarian families unnecessary extra expenditure now, is indeed regulated by a system, and we should make a decision about it, and it should be possible to make a decision in Parliament. Once again, we expect a new definition of public wealth and national wealth from this government, but we also see that, hiding behind the traditional family model, the government intends to redefine this public money. Obviously, I am on the side of the traditional family model, and I will always represent this, and I think that what they have said about this could have said, of course, that the sky is blue, grass is green, I think we are talking about obviouss, that is not what the debate is about. But once again, public financial redefining only strengthens the perverse redistribution, whereby the luckier and richer in Hungary receive very serious public funding, and this support is typically collected from those who are in a more difficult line. [[11.30]] At the same time, I have already mentioned that Fidesz potentates are fighting abroad for the promotion of public investment in order to support large companies in Hungary above the limit of EUR 800 and to encourage domestic investments by those who, in my view, least need this support. This corporate consolidation plan was observed around in the 70's ascension phase of capitalism, it is called a neoliberal phase for a reason, since the economic policy of the current Orbán government also demonstrates the same. When, let's say, we look at their attitude towards car manufacturers, we see that. Now I'm going to get it out of my paperwork quickly, but you don't have to look for it for long, because almost every year, Audi Hungária Zrt. it shall be awarded some aid. The Audi has now entered into a contract with the Hungarian government on state aid of HUF 2 billion, the total loss of which, in essence, due to the failure of the virus, is paid by the Orbán government. This, of course, can be argued, because the company can say that it had more and more spill-over losses. But where are the Hungarian micro- and medium-sized enterprises compared to this? If at least half of their losses were to be compensated, these companies would be happy to keep the jobs, but the perverse redistribution that we're seeing is that they're pulling and pulling away from ordinary people and then getting the luckier and the richer, it's pretty amazing. Here, the example of Audi shows that while companies' profits remain in private hands, they are driven out of the country, often taken from our country untaxed, their losses are passed on by the Orbán government to Hungarian society and passed on to Hungarian taxpayers. This chemically pure neoliberal model has failed several times in the world. There is one thing that must be inadequate: the Hungarian economy cannot be driven out of the crisis, and there is a crisis. Crisis management is needed, and we see this package as proof that the Orbán government is dealing with a lot of things during crisis management, only with the basic portfolio, not with its main task, the replacement of lost wages, the closure of implementations, evictions and other measures leading to even greater social disaster in crisis. I would add that the amount of family support should also be increased. Jobbik believes that this should be done through a family card, a child protection approach, so that they can only be spent on basic foods and child-rearing articles for families with children, but, of course, it can be debated. It is certain that non-inflationary and frozen forms of family support should be increased, followed by inflation, taking into account the more than 40 per cent of aggregate inflation that has appeared in this area since 2010. When these things are done, I am very happy to argue with you about stud estates, the exhibition in Dubai and everything else, but the Hungarian reality is coming, winter is coming, and I do not want it to be full of horror. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause from Jobbik, DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-11-17-34	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. The next speaker is Mr Gyula Molnár, lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-17-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I am trying to say a little more general sentences, moving a little further along the line that my fellow Member, who spoke before me, has done. But let me ask you a rhetorical question, what's the rush, gentlemen, where's the rush? I'm not saying ladies because I don't see a lady in the courtroom. What's wrong? What do you know that we might not know? Is there something going on, or is there something that suddenly requires these laws to be submitted at such an amazing pace in this situation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to continue the amazing processes of the private handing-up of state assets that seem rather vague to us? Or they simply say from the comments you and the pro-government people have made so far, that we don't look for anything, there's nothing to see here, that's the usual thing we do, that's what we promised ten years ago, that's what we started, now there's a bit of excitement about what's going to happen at the end of the epidemic. We've speeded it up a bit, but otherwise, there's nothing to see here. So, to put it a little harder, again, I consider it such a serious gem in the parliamentary legislative process, and obviously the picantria of this, today and tomorrow, I think, will often be said by the speakers, the opposition speakers, that the beauty of all this is, in fact, that all this has been presented before the announcement of an emergency or just a few minutes before the curfew is announced. So it inevitably raises the question for people what is most important for you. Let's talk about it a little bit here because I think the next months and perhaps one of the biggest questions of the years will be whether you have done the right thing at this time, at this moment. As I understand it, in your mind, you have issues relating to the protection of the epidemic, there is a dilemma between working health care and a functioning economy. How, how, in some way, can this be resolved optimally? Once again, history and numbers will obviously decide that you have made the right decision at this moment, the Austrians have made the right decision, then, let's say, in March Sweden, Swedish policy made the right decision, we cannot judge it. But I would like to add immediately that it is very spectacular, and we will say this many times again, that at this stage very spectacularly they do not or barely deal with the social section of the same problem, pensioners, unemployed people, small and medium-sized enterprises, so all those who are clearly trying to achieve this balance policy in this threesome can clearly and clearly lose. Yesterday, you enchanted yourself with a conflict that I think can become one of the biggest conflicts in Hungarian modern history, and Hungary can take a radically different direction, and this is the instigation of the possible EU veto, and we have not yet talked about how they will strike the municipalities on the left on the pretext of epidemic measures, and even if they listen a little bit to President Parragh, they will hit the municipalities pretty seriously. So I'd like to ask you this question and say that it may seem a little more global, that it won't be a bit much, so you shouldn't have to slow down somewhere. If there are so many tasks at once, I understand that they are not lacking in abilities, they are not lacking in courage, but it might be worth slowing down a bit from this point of view and deciding what is important. Today I say this is your slogan, but I am happy to use it now that Hungary is my first, and the Hungarian people are my first. It would be worth considering what can be done in this working health economy, and perhaps we should leave the rest of the world alone. What I'd like to do is go a little further into the bill, and I have a lot of respect and pleasure in watching you be able to see and see the world for your own good. I remember what it was like to be heretic and anti-national, if anyone had an offshore company, and then suddenly, when there was an excellent idea, say, a settlement bond business, then suddenly the offshores were such great things. Similarly, as mayor, I remember that if someone tried to grant a concession if they tried to involve private capital in the task that the municipality clearly could not do at that level. I've always said that I've been attacked a lot so that if you want to solve a problem, but your abilities, your options are limited, and you can involve someone who can help you do that, I think it's obviously the right thing to do. The task here is to draw the limits of one's own decency in an appropriate way, and from that point of view we have a little uncertainty. We remember exactly that in '91 this law was a huge breakthrough. Then what was it about? National roads, works of art, sewers, utility systems, local roads and artifacts forming the municipal tribe, mining, research, extraction, transport of products by pipeline, broadcasting material, gambling and trolleybus traffic had already appeared. So that's what he was talking about, and that's when your government came along slowly, and this concession logic and thinking began to expand more and more according to what was in the interest. I don't want to get into such a very long discussion here, although I can see that in the benches across the street there will not be such a fierce and sharp debate on this matter today, so I can approach the problem a little differently. There are a lot of cases of gaming theory about the concession, what's the interest, where the deal is, when it goes, who benefits, and now I'm not looking at it from the prosecution's side, but rather from the game theory's side. [[11.40]] And really, these were moments when these were good games for everyone. The real question here is that when we get into a bargaining position, we are able to make coalitions and compromises. And the question arises, Mr. Secretary, which is why I flew so intricately into this problem, because I don't see exactly why this is good for the state in some cases, where it is in the bargaining situation, that the state, when a problem couldn't be solved otherwise, finds a character to solve it for it; I don't really perceive it. It seems to me that in this game, we are now trying to produce this in this way, so much more the beneficiary of this transaction and of this asset transfer. But I don't want to go any deeper into this principle stuff. I'd like to lift my imaginary hat in front of your communications crew and team, because they have an amazing ability to put up screens in front of a very important case, and how these screens may or may not cover up real things. And it would require an amazing mining task from opposition representatives to dig down to the bottom and find in every single law what is really the goal. Well, in this case, the invention is really brilliant, and your expo also spoke about it for a long time, and this is what our fellow Member from Banya was talking about. So with regard to the national philharmonic, if you look at this presentation, pianos, violins, everything is in it; it is all about what the philharmonic is doing. Wonderful! And the Hungarian Maltese Love Service is the other in the law. So you've pulled up the screen, and then behind it is Dubai, as we've already seen, there's the water utility, and there's a lot of stuff, there's the castle, there's the free-snake castle. So once again, I really respect you, and I really do understand you from every angle, and then here in Parliament, you can say that with an impetuous face, and you can recall it. I'll tell you the truth, we're not gonna be able to support this kind of tempo. We're looking at another private transfer of state property into an accelerated private hand. I do not like the fact that it is here in nature conservation areas that we perceive that it may be easier for them to get out of this field and into private hands, and let me quote someone who may not be accused of being one of the main leaders of the liberal Bolshevik serialist conspiracy, József Balogh, the mayor of Ominosus Free Snake, who is famous for meeting with the blind consort and his lovely wife. There's this free-snake castle where there's enough... [[L. Simon László: That wasn't him!]] Isn't that him? Really? Then I apologize. Then József Balogh fideszes... [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes.]] But then he too... But then it's not, so I apologize to this József Balogh, I apologize. But in any case, the mayor of Free Snake Fidesz at HVG said the next thing. First of all, he wrote a letter to peaceful Members of Parliament to help prevent them from taking this property away from them. And he says it should have been said at least, you fool, that's what we want. József Balogh, mayor of Szabadkereszós said he did not sleep all night, because of the 22 years he spent as mayor in the village, 20 were spent finding solutions to manage, renovate and exploit the Wenckheim castle. With this force, we could have been attached to Kosovo by the mayor of peace to the fact that, from a tourist point of view, the settlement is always planned with Békéscsaba and Gyula, as it is 5-10 kilometers away from Szabadsányos and 52 kilometers to Mezőhegyes. And then here comes the slugger, people say when the subsidies came for the renovation, that they'd be taken by a politician anyway. What do you want me to say? said the mayor. Well, he was taken by a politician, so it was a prophecy. I'm sorry, I'm gonna say this again, and it seems to be important, and it seems to be a matter of public interest. And since, obviously, we are also talking about grateful posterity here in this room, I would like to say that in the next day or two, we will be discussing a number of laws that will be very exciting from the point of view, once again, that I am trying to draw the framework, which is the ex post evaluation of all that has happened here in connection with the epidemic and the emergency. But let's go over how many times in the last few years you've set a very noble purpose, and it turns out that in the end, it was some kind of new clientship, in some way, that the public property was in private hands. Such was the lease of the trades, the lease of the land, and then the sale of the land, the system of managed public procurement, the establishment of the National Bank network, the restructuring of the gambling market, the discriminatory support of the domestic food chains, the levy on the profits of the gas business, an offshore company, the benefits of settlement government bonds, the personalisation of public lighting tenders, and the channelling of tao money. For this, in the next period, I think that this is also the way to give public property to private hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and the independents.]]
u2020-11-17-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. The next speaker is Mr László Varju, lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-17-37	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, In a few thoughts, I would like to say that, in itself, the Secretary of State defended or could be said: what we think differently from the draft law in his expozee and what should be done differently in this situation. I will start with what I do to correct these laws, and I do not even say that I should criticize, in particular, look for impact studies that should be linked to the law, because you have adopted a rule under which, if it has a socio-economic impact, and this will have a socio-economic impact, then information on this should be shared with Parliament's representatives before the vote. It's also an understatement that you guys have failed to do properly, you've never done this, despite the fact that there's a rule of your own accord, and you're breaking it. Therefore, if I am just going to say that, I should say that it is unacceptable and cannot be supported, because in truth you probably know what is behind this and why you are doing this. I don't think what you're doing is fair by concealing this information. For this to be cumulative, the Secretary of State took part for a time in the Budget Committee meeting at which the Minister reported on her activities last year; the plans were less discussed. But I think it would have been appropriate to bring up such a transformation before the parliamentary commission, to think together about the recommendations on this issue, which have now led up to discussing this law in accordance with the otherwise ordered rule, and you have also accepted it, Madam Minister, that the committee dealing with this area has been excluded from discussing this bill and can take a position on this at committee level. Now, what if you don't want to hide this law in order to otherwise stay out of the report or the whole story. And here, at the same time, we have two laws on certain provisions concerning the management of assets. For this reason, this is another point that makes this unacceptable. My fellow Member, and here is the next thought, he mentioned that the sky was blue, the grass was green, but he did not continue or finish. I'll add, and the Fidesz is lying. So from these points of view, I think we should look at this bill. All of this, when you were in the middle of the pandemic for months, you didn't really do anything, you weren't prepared, you were hesitant, you were insecure about what to do. Now, compared to this, for example, these two laws have been tabled to reduce the risk of disease; there is much more to come, but the two laws on asset management. [[11.50]] Meanwhile, they did not prepare health care, they did not prepare schools for the second wave, they did not prepare businesses, they did not give them any help, and today we have come to the point that today is an important, dramatic moment in which there are more than 150,000 patients in the country. And instead, you're trying to impress us here, and you're trying to imitate the enthusiasm of everyone here, and then the Members of Parliament have said so, Minister Gulyás, on the government info. But I am taking advantage of the opportunity to draw attention to what should otherwise be addressed within the framework of this law. This is also the case, because, if the Secretary of State allows me, I am pleased if he says sentences and tries to make the law appear in such a way as if he were otherwise such a good intention and what a good deed they would do, compared to that, let us call the child by name, handing out state property, giving it to individuals and organizations free of charge, so that you have chosen them for some reason. Surely you have an impact assessment of why they are the ones who have to create this opportunity, unlike others, for whom they do not do so. In addition, the foundation is entrusted with the allocation of budget support and can even manage it independently, so it is sold in a rather interesting way. Or in the same way, the chosen one talks about the Maltese Charity Service, but the Secretary of State does not speak of the fact that, in the meantime, Gábor Iványi marked the Oltalom Foundation practically, to whom they are not helping, or even their debt, I think it will be settled in a controversial manner, although we are currently in this debate with Minister of Finance. But one of the points of the change is that the procedural facilitation that they want to escape from public procurement procedures is also placed next to the MotoGP track, where 65,000 forints are spent. Secretary of State, how many unemployed people are there in this country today? If they gave a million forints to 65,000 people, they would otherwise be able to survive this next period, and I will not tell you how much they actually get today, compared to one million forints, who are on a job-seeking allowance that should be dealt with separately. So, on the basis of all this, I must tell you that this bill is not only not eligible, but in itself a shameful moment in the midst of the epidemic, when they are dealing with how individuals can be stuffed with real estate instead of dealing with what is perhaps the most important thing right now, perhaps, which is the most important one. In this way, I can't handle it any other way than the panic government's replacement action, that's all, trying to deal with something that I'm sure you shouldn't. For months, like I said, they didn't do anything, and when things got bad, they're trying to fake something that they're doing something. It's like everything's fine in this country, they're bringing in a bill, and it's even so wasted. In a way, they put in things that, by the way, I think are completely unwarranted. I think, in essence, you've seen that you've lost the fight against the epidemic, so you're trying to do something else instead of helping those people and those businesses. I can even assume that you are seeking security, terrified of losing the elections, and because there are no two rounds now, you do not want to give people and organisations the opportunity between two rounds, as you did in 2002, but here you are going through it in a premeditated and planned manner, and in this way the Hungarian state is significantly damaged by different steps. So what they should be doing instead, and they don't. There will be no free mass testing, which, if it had actually been done, there would have been no outbreak in this country, and you should not have closed this country and created a situation in which you support some of the selected sectors that you consider important in different areas. Meanwhile, with small and medium-sized enterprises that have virtually ceased to have their internal market, they do not have orders, but there are also 10-15 people in a small enterprise, whose employment the owner tries to keep with blood and sweat in some way so that they do not have to be dismissed and they do not care about them. You cannot find a small and medium-sized enterprise, Mr Secretary of State, who would have received support from you, with which you could survive this period fairly or at least partially. Don't mention Squire Ripper to me, please, if you'd like to return to this in your reply. And just like they didn't help the medical staff, the teachers, there's schools, there's them, they're practically the kindergartens, the cradles are left untested. What is the reason why they don't do general testing in places where our children are normally received? The job search support was not extended from three months to six months, at least. Why not? Why isn't there a general possibility that if someone has been laid off by the way, there should be a possibility for him to survive, if you are counting that, by the way, at some point in the beginning of next year, perhaps by the middle of next year, we can get to the point where there will be a general medicine to deal with this epidemic? If you have to make it by then, why not extend the job search support for at least this period? You are eager to leave out at least 150,000 people who have fallen out of the supply system, and they are not given any opportunity, there is 22 800 forints left, you know exactly what a citizen gets. If, by the way, both of you from the family are in this situation, then according to your rules, only one of you is entitled to 22 800 forints. Secretary of State, why are you letting people down and leaving them on the trenches? It must be restarted, I think, from this it is quite clear, the state wage substitute; it must be launched not for the chosen, but generally. The same alibi was achieved after the first wave that half a million Hungarians had no job. You have to come out of this situation, do it. And that's where the pensioners are. You know exactly what a lie it is when you claim that they can preserve it, that it will be of value to pensions. It has nothing to do with it, and it is precisely perceived by those who go into the market in Újpest, how much more it costs, by the way. Aside from all this, you could have at least helped small pensioners with a one-time grant, but their livelihood, their opportunity, doesn't mean anything to you, so I think you're very irresponsible. But there is also the question of what kind of announcements the Prime Minister made about flu vaccination was 50 percent. And what did you make of it, anyway? Half of it wasn't true. [[12.00]] There are now the general practitioners who struggle every day to make sure that they are able to meet the needs that they have. They could have reported the free use of the coronal virus vaccine with the same force, since it doesn't have the same effect as the flu vaccine, by the way. After all, I am glad that the Prime Minister has, by the way, obtained it for you, obviously, but for a large number of Hungarians, Mr Secretary of State, he has not. And I could tell you what 22 points we're offering by the Democratic Coalition faction, but I understand that you're dealing with something else in your panic management, and you're trying to draw attention to what's really in people's lives, the fear, the fear of what's going to happen to them. And you're not gonna help them with anything, but these two laws aren't gonna help them, that's for sure, which is why I'm not gonna accept it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-38	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-17-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is amusing when László Varju or Gyula Molnár talks about public property becoming private property, as the purpose of the current amendment, as we have also heard from the secretary of state, my fellow Member, Fidesz, that citizens, in the interests of the Hungarian people, should manage state assets as optimal and efficient as possible in the bill before us, as the Fidesz-KDNP government has been committed to recovering, maintaining and expanding state assets since 2010. In contrast to left-wing governments, national wealth has increased by one and a half times since 2010. Congressman Varju, as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, surely remembers how, before 2010, during the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, state assets simply became private property for your friends and companies, real estates and state-owned assets. The last decade proves that the state can be a good farmer, but it does serve the interests and security of Hungarian people if public works and assets of major importance from a national strategy point of view are state-owned and are not enriched by foreign speculators. We know very well that you, the left, have taken a completely different view of this. According to them, state wealth is good when travelling to foreigners, left-wing principle friends, or red barons. According to the left, there is no corruption and they believe that the conclusion of the PPP structure is beneficial for the sale of utilities, profitable public companies, for the distribution of public procurement to foreign speculators or left-wing oligarchs and red barons; and you do not think that the non-payment of Hungarian subcontractors is a sin. The result of this concept was that before 2010, the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, which conducted the robbery privatisation, simply scattered or squandered a significant part of the state's wealth. It has to be said that by 2010, a large part of the state's wealth had become private, thanks to your blessed activities. Gyurcsányek played more than two thirds of the nation's strategically highlighted companies in private hands: the energy sector, large public companies, banks, utility companies, state real estate and land. 190 companies have been privatized, and we have heard little about this in László Varju's speech. 190 companies have been privatized from state assets. Among other things, Budapest Airport, Postabank, MOL shares, Antenna Hungária and the profitable MÁV Cargo were sold. Nor did Congressman Varju talk about how these assets, these profitable companies, could be played out from state assets to various foreign speculators and friends. The left sold out the country even when it came to utilities, the utilities were sold into foreign property. This was extremely irresponsible, because Hungarian consumers were exposed to foreign interests, and while foreign owners made huge profits out of the country at the expense of Hungarian consumers, Hungarian families were able to pay Europe's highest overhead costs thanks to you. Honourable Congressman, The price of electricity and gas has been increased dozens of times, and Hungarian families have had to pay the highest cost of electricity in Europe only because you have played the utility companies abroad. Between 2004 and 2010, Hungarian families had to pay HUF 1060 billion more due to your activities. We can remember that in 1997 Gábor Demszky owned the Metropolitan Waterworks and the Metropolitan Channel Artworks for a change, which he even cynically called a very good business even in front of the press. It perfectly describes left-wing logic: it thinks in short-term goals, sacrificing our common national wealth and the future of Hungarian people for momentary interests, money and power. In addition to squandering state wealth, the left has achieved an unprecedented reduction in time of peace, as hospital beds, schools, railway lines have been broken down at a record rate, but I think it is also a very important turning point in this respect in 2010, since the national government is constantly recovering previously irresponsiblely squandered national strategic utilities; and over the past decade, the state has increased significantly, by 1.5 times, the common wealth of all Hungarians. Obviously, we believe that Hungarian state or municipal property guarantees that foreign speculators cannot realise a huge, unjustified profit from the consumption of Hungarian households and that we can keep the overhead costs low, we can preserve the results of the reductions. The details of the bill were also mentioned by the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, Fidesz, but the difference in perspective is quite clear. When you, Gyula Molnár, or László Varju, are talking about some kind of privateisation here, you are again not telling us about the degree of robbery that they had done before 2010, and how deceitful it is that in any way, any moral high ground, they are now speaking to us about private wealth and the relationship of state wealth, when 190 companies, profitable companies, and state wealth were constantly working to get them into foreign hands and into the hands of their friends, the Red Barons. I think that there is no credibility, therefore, in any policy of wealth on the left. We know exactly the story of the Little Villa, and we could continue to stick to these adventurous roads, we could call them adventurous how holiday houses in Balaton, other real estate dogs linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány; we could talk about them for a long time. I think that the Hungarian people are well aware of this, which is why they treat both Gyula Molnár and László Varju's speeches in their place. I thank both Mr Secretary of State and the Ministry for the work that is being done to draft the law and to preserve and increase national wealth. The KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-17-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2020-11-17-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We've witnessed a real bill dumping in the last few days. And if this bill dumping was related to our most important task at this moment, namely, the protection tasks related to the coronal virus epidemic, then I would say that it is worth working overtime in Parliament, it is worth discussing so many legislative proposals, since the purpose of these legislative proposals is to protect the health, workplace and life of Hungarian people. But that's not it! While curfew was imposed after 8:00 p.m., you presented several legislative proposals to the Parliament during the night. Moreover, these legislative proposals have been submitted not only to draft laws, but also to amend the Constitution, the Fundamental Law, not to protect people's health and jobs during this difficult period; it is quite simply that, to this end, even the Fundamental Law is not sacred to apply changes, to introduce things into domestic law that aim to weaken public and public social control and parliamentary control. The Fundamental Law debate will take place tomorrow. There, obviously, this will be discussed in more detail; I would just like to point out that there is also a question of making it impossible to control public funds in the case of foundations. What has been possible so far by law is that if the Fundamental Law is passed, it will not be possible in the future. No matter how much public money will be spent on the foundations, their use cannot be enforced by final court judgments, unlike, for example, the funds of the Hungarian National Bank. [[12.10]] And the law on asset management, which is now in front of us, also points in this direction, a part of the public wealth is being deployed to foundations and institutions that are not sold for money, because here in the previous comment there is an identity between sales and free benefits, which is far from the same in economic terms. It is simply now that some of the national wealth, some of the state's wealth, is being relocated to a place where the possibilities of control over public assets are being reduced. In these legislative proposals, however, it is clear who the beneficiaries will be. The beneficiaries include the name of Mr Lajos Kósa, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, the name of Mr János Lázár, as the names of influential politicians who are fighting for matters of their own heart that will now be smeared with serious legislative proposals, some of the wealth. I note only in parentheses that while the amendment of the Fundamental Law is justified by the coronal virus epidemic, as one of your ministers has discussed this, it is difficult to say that the prevention of public control, the reduction of the possibilities of control over public assets, over state assets, would be in any context with the Crown virus, although one of your ministers believes that this is the case. These proposals have been so overlooked that it is no longer simply the case that, according to the usual political logic, pro-government representatives argue against the arguments of opposition representatives. Here, this bill has already thrown out the guarantee in fidesz bersek, as the Fidesz mayor of Szabadkereszós, as has already been said in the debate, finds it quite difficult that the Wenckheim castle, which has cost a lot of money to renovate, is now moving away from the village. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Are you taking him?]] This settlement is close to Gyula, close to Békéscsaba, in any case closer to Mezőhegyes, and yet this castle is now being managed from a property point of view by that farmhouse in Mezőhegyes, which is much further away from this settlement, but close to the heart of János Lázár. We understand that pro-government politicians have shown that they are a fan of castles, and if there is only one way to do so, they are supported by public funds, and they also favour the acquisition of the provision above them. This bill is therefore primarily about this. It is about expanding the opportunities of some influential pro-government politicians to the detriment of national, state wealth, and now to the benefit of the wealth of these institutions and foundations. This is quite simply a cynical attitude, and, moreover, at a time when resources should not be focused on the favourite entertainment of pro-government politicians, but on the control of the coronal virus epidemic, it is also particularly vile. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As much as you refer to the day-to-day propaganda for the control of the epidemic, it seems that you see an opportunity in the plague, no epidemic will prevent you, as the saints, from leaning your hands towards you and acquiring from the state fortune what is dear to you, at least the decree over state property. At the same time, they reduce the possibility that the operation of these assets, at all events, will be transparent and open to public control. This option will be reduced and some pro-government politicians will be increased in scope and scope. That's what this bill is about. That's too bad. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-17-42	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Burány. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-11-17-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to repeat the thoughts that my fellow opposition Members have before me in the T/13672. A number of proposals were presented. This proposal amends 19 laws, through paragraph 54, and the fundamental principle in its justification is to extend the scope of the concession procedures, and in some way its impact on the national economy is further promoted by this new proposal. That's why it says so. But I must say that I find it extremely outrageous that there is a curfew from 8:00 to 5:00 p.m. at night, and that Parliament's leadership determines the work of Parliament in such a way that, before 10-11 p.m., Members are certainly unable to leave the walls of this House, and there have been dozens of legislative proposals submitted to this House over the past period that do not need to appear as a proposal during the coronal virus epidemic, and that there are no conditions of life that are now necessary, and they are now justified. I am shocked that the Parliament's leadership has blessed 200 Members and 400 service staff with a five-day working week, five-day parliamentary work, by stressing that it is entirely timeless proposals. This proposal is timely in one thing, so that, in the remaining year and a half, it is possible for the circle of friends to play through certain national interests as easily as possible and to help increase their profit-making activities. I would like to add so much to the presentation by my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, when he spoke about the wealth of the left which was squandered and privatized, I can only conclude that your comrades were quite good disciples. Because in these 30 years, you're not, because you're young, but your fellow parties have done the work with which the state fortune was sold out. And don't forget one thing: it was.98-2002, the first Orbán government continued its activities effectively in enough quotes. Don't talk in this House like there's been a life since 2010. It was 20 years before 2010, and all the social problems that are raging today, and because of which this terrible trench exists among social groups, horrendous hostility, mistrust and extremely harsh tone in society, you and your fellow party have already made a pretty strong contribution to their activities. I would like to say to you that I am not voting for any proposal aimed at recouping national wealth in any way, nor at any business that aims to reduce national wealth, or at least the degree of private profit and the usefulness of the state and the nation are not in proportion to each other, and then I really tried to express myself very gently. The concept of concession is a very old concept, a concession granted by the State and the municipality, on the basis of which the State or the municipality grants the right to exercise the activities set out in law by means of a fixed-term contract to the rightholder and provides a limited market monopoly in time and space with him. That's the very chiselled concept. The involvement of private capital in public and municipal activities has unfortunately been necessary in recent decades. Let me tell you, however, that one of the important reasons for this was that in the public and municipal spheres they did not seek the involvement of professionals and quality government activities with which they could organise these activities in the hands of state and municipal authorities, they only released the best professionals on the market, they remained in the state and municipal systems, who were unable to organise such activities, and that is why the state and the local government had to restrict themselves to the market. [[12.20]] If it were up to me at some point, the best professionals would work abundantly in the public, municipal sector in competition with market wages and in competition with powers, and not all pisslice activities would have to be carried out through concessions and various private capital. Everyone also knows that such relationships are the basis for corruption; everyone knows that it is the companies around the government that gain these opportunities; everyone knows that the manipulation of pricing is very powerful; everyone knows that in such circumstances the citizens of the nation and the state usually win the least. It says that the start of the explanatory statement is that the state's concession activities have been decisive, and that the state's concession activities have increased over the last decades. And there are a number of provisions in this proposal that are not directly linked to the amendment of the concession proposal, since there are a lot of proposals that are completely different from this issue. That is to say, once again, a salad law has been put before us, in which there are some very worthy questions, such as the issue of Philharmonia or the sports union, but I will tell you, after this proposal, which is clearly and transparently aimed at putting the economic organizations around the government in an even higher position on the concession issue, I will not vote for it, and I will hear from one State Secretary in a response that I did not want to give the instruments to Philharmonia. How could I not want to give you your instruments? ! They must have the instruments, it is not a question, but they should not be smuggled into such a proposal, because then, unfortunately, after we cannot vote on the amendment of certain laws laid down by law, which I hope I can change in my life, then such situations arise that I cannot vote in favour of the instruments of Philharmonia, because I do not want to help anyone, that, in addition to the procurements that have already been completely governed by a certain economic circle, even concession procedures are in their interests. A special legislative feature in this proposal is that Article 2 It already brings the later ones into force by virtue of Article 13. It's something I've never read before, by the way, that it's a 2. § 1 is about when what will be regulated in the proposal will enter into force. I will not, by the way, consider that, from a technical point of view, the provision of entry into force could not be put to the very end of the proposal. Someone will explain that one day. That is why, as a lawyer, I would like to strive for some form of rule over the submission and vote of proposals for legislation by legislative law and legislative traditions, as well as rationality. I am very opposed to the fact that they want to bring the essential elements of concession relations down to the level of government decrees and ministerial decrees. This completely excludes Parliament's control of these conditions. Let's think about it, we're talking 35-year-old relationships, which is over eight cycles. How could the establishment of 35-year relationships be entrusted with serious public tasks, so that Parliament's control role over the basic characteristics of such relations is not possible for eight cycles? The person who wrote this must have had the task of putting it into this proposal so that we could get the regulations down to the level of government regulation and regulation. But did it ever occur to you that one day the person who will make this and the one who asks will be in a position to be on the opposition side? I'm talking about eight cycles! More than eight cycles! So if I were you, I would consider very carefully what kind of regulatory systems are being brought down to the level of government regulations and regulations, because believe me, which you have made, once there is another type of government, you will make great use of to reduce your licenses. Don't ever forget that. Everyone always gets what they did back from fate. Maybe not in a given situation, but in a different situation, but everything always equals. It's never a problem to create an institution. Never! An institution, however we create it, may not be organized in such a professional way, but it can work very well, because it depends on who and how it is operated. I never have a problem with institutions. I don't have a problem with the concession. I don't have a problem with a minister or the Prime Minister deciding certain issues, I don't have a problem with that either. The problem is whether this is in the interests of the nation or not. I think that with this proposal, although you said very nicely, Mr Secretary of State, from whom we always hear very convincingly the justification of the proposals, but I am concerned that he knows that this proposal was not entirely made as he said here, and as the pro-government Members support it. Article 21 For the Újpest Gymnastics Association, it's a matter of wealth management. There is no question for me, the Újpest Gymnastics Association manages the wealth that has been a wonderfully successful athlete's activity for many decades and centuries. I only have one question: if the Újpest Gymnastics Association is a trustee, then why did we give the trust fund the assets into eternal ownership? Will someone explain that to me someday? So, even in your interests, there are some and two. It is likely that one of their fellow politicians had an important question of how UTE would receive this wealth in the management of assets. It's all right, I don't know who it was, I'm guessing, but I'm supporting you in this one thing. The proposal says that you will receive it for asset management, but when, between the walls of the same House, trust funds in legislation to fundamentally change the governance and infrastructure conditions of universities, I asked why they cannot be transferred there into trust law, no one answered. Only property; you can sell it; you just have to tell me you're going to sell it; you have a pre-emptive right, and I don't know. Why did you have to give the state's wealth to these trust foundations, whose board members are the leading politicians of Fidesz and KDNP? It's more than transparent. So I'm asking you, if UTE is important to you, not just to me, then either honor it by taking possession of these assets, or if there is a right to trust, then please bring back the legislative proposals where trust funds are not given ownership, but trust rights. It's in their name, why did they have to give them the state property, the nation's wealth? For the purposes of this Decision, the following By the way, I must say that I am surprised that my fellow Members did not raise this, but this is the most telling of what this legislative proposal is about. The purchase of the healthcare system will be placed under guardianship and given to this Directorate-General for Procurement and Supply. Therefore, they no longer trust that health care equipment and care materials in the healthcare system should be acquired by the purchasing organisation of those who know how to do so. Is that okay? Really? This is a level of humiliation for the organization and persons involved in the procurement of health care systems that I am extremely surprised about. But there are your appointed ones, you don't trust your own? Or will the goal be to get 26,000 respirators, only to have staff to do so, so that there is no longer a condition for a medical purchase, so that competent professionals can stand in line and determine what the health care system needs? We still haven't heard an explanation as to why we had to get 26,000 respirators when we don't have the right person to operate. And you all know that when you get a new device, if you don't start using it within a certain period of time, you can't enforce warranty rights. Think, tens of thousands or, say, tens of thousands of ventilators are still packed somewhere, and if they don't unpack during the epidemic, there won't be a warranty. Did you ever think about that? Because I think it's important. And then the 50th. § is my biggest favourite: besides the Hungarian Tourism Agency, other organisations operated by the government can also contribute to the development of tourism. Well, it's a big surprise. There's a crisis of confidence here. [[12.30]] Well, so far, the Hungarian Tourism Agency has been the god who is doing his job in tourism development on behalf of the state. So what happens now? At some point, they say it's different. There's a trust deficit we'll never know, of course we know that. Just one thing: why do you have to bring this here in a bill? Because the government has the right to appoint anyone, an organisation, in any government activity [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's gotta be part of it. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-17-44	Thank you very much, Varga-Damm Andrea. We're about to make a two-minute comment. Congressman László Varju!
u2020-11-17-45	Thank you very much. It was my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, and yesterday the Prime Minister's comment that led me to say this quickly. If the congressman went into a bookstore looking for a publication that Hungary is performing better, he would be told that the humor and joke journal department is on the ground floor and will be found there. So what you're saying is pretty much in this category. I would like to remind you that if you are very fond of remembering what happened in 2008-10, you will also remember that, by the way, the volume of public debt exceeded HUF 20 000 billion, while as a result of your good governance, we are now at HUF 32 000 billion. So if that's what we're talking about, then that's what you're dealing with, and that's what you're dealing with. It is therefore pointless and unacceptable for such a law to be put before Parliament at a time when there is an epidemic, when there is an economic crisis, and instead of dealing with the payment of a job search allowance for three months raise it instead of spending the money to start building a new one completely meaningless instead of another, otherwise abandoned MotoGP course, for 65,000 million forints. They ignore the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises are unable to provide meaningful assistance either in spring or now, which is why there is a huge increase in unemployment, even if your statistical system is unwilling or unwilling to show how many people have lost their jobs and there are tens of thousands of families left alone. That is why I think that this is unacceptable. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
u2020-11-17-46	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. For two minutes, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor.
u2020-11-17-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, You don't have to look for a description of your activities, because you're there, Ferenc Gyurcsány told you at their autumn meeting how they steered, that they didn't do anything for two years, that they lied in the morning, at night and at night, but if someone did write it, it would sound like the sale of Hungary and the betrayal of national interests, that's what it was. We have been able to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio since 2010. You remember, Congressman, in 2002 it was 51-52 percent, and you raised the government debt-to-GDP ratio above 80 percent, while they said that the PPP structure is good, that the IMF loan is good, that is why they are good, strengthening the various foreign exposure and vulnerability, because then there is more money for Hungarian people. They took wages, 13 months' wages, took pensions, 13 months' pensions, frozen the public sector's gross wage and constantly raised taxes, so it wasn't true what you said about this, while you were indebted to the country, you even humiliated people. That's the thing. Congresswoman Varga-Damm unfortunately went out. I would tell him that we do not use the name of the good Lord in connection with tourist agencies and other organisations, at least we do not, and that if the congresswoman thinks that, as the police, soldiers, medical workers, couriers, workers of the evening shifts in factories must work, but we do not, then the congresswoman is very wrong, Parliament must operate in the same way as the country does. And if he feels that the five-day working week is stressful, my fellow Members and I will certainly be able to overlook his speech in one or two debates. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-48	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai for two minutes.
u2020-11-17-49	Thank you again, Mr President. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm really went out, and I just want to address her that there are packed ventilators waiting in warehouses and losing their warranty, and I'm saying that I wish I could lose them, because that means we don't have to use the machines that are packed and transported here. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] And that's good, thank God, if that's what's gonna happen. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right!]] That means neither her nor my mother or our grandparents will be in need of these machines. I think it was just good news, so let's consider it a prophecy from the congresswoman. He also said that he didn't think we were running the state's estate well. We've heard this before, under previous socialist and Balliberal governments, that the state is a bad owner. I would like to say in a normal speech how bad this current Hungarian government was compared to the previous ones. What I didn't understand was why the congresswoman was disturbed by the 30th. In the case of Section 2 of the KEF, the public procurement procedures will be transferred from the ÁEEK to the KEF, where we will have to think about the acquisition of health facilities in this case, why is it a problem if a public central body that knows everything better from this point of view, but takes over professionals, and always acquires them in a larger item, with much more knowledge, background information, such as, say, the ÁEEK did this, and much faster, I do not know why this is a problem. But one thing has to be stated: the KEF buys a lot of things for the Hungarian state, from fuel through ammunition, through equipment, in all kinds of public procurement, they are the guides and the decision makers. I do not think it is a problem that, if this is avoided by the State Healthcare Services Centre, this is not an offence; it is more of a step forward to more modern and better state asset purchase and asset acquisition. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-11-17-50	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Bányai. The next announced speaker was Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2020-11-17-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said in the debate. The first is what my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, said just now that if we have a job that is pregnant, we should be at home, and they will be relieved to note that. The way I see it, there are at least 120 Members pregnant here today. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] 'Cause it seems to me like there's a lot of fidesz congressmen here. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So it seems to me that the work is constantly burdensome for you, because it is always that the debate or the members of the government do not take place, but only at the end, as the dialogue of the deaf, their opinion, that there would be a real debate with the representative of the government, is almost a rarity. My second point is this: you know, it might be better for you to work less because you would do less damage here in Parliament. Apparently, this recent legislative rush serves a very different purpose than what you're talking about, Congressman. This is not about you guys being incredibly excited to work, but behind every initiative like this, there's always some economic interest linked to your moonyard, to your friends and to their pockets. So what Gyula Molnár, my fellow Member or Congressman Varju said in his comment, is that it is not always possible to see what real interests lie behind a particular amendment at the moment when it gets here, before the Parliament, it is not a novelty, it is very often used with this instrument, and then the weeks and months will make it clear what purpose this amendment has served in this proposal. My second point relates to public debt. You were keen to tell me what kind of government debt figures were in the statistics in 2008-09. I don't know, Mr President, you probably missed the fact that in 2008-09 there was a global economic crisis, in which there was an increase in government deficits everywhere, an increase in public debt, because that is how governments tried to deal with that particular crisis, and in which case, of course, this will happen in all countries. To add, I do not know, you have noticed today's figures that the government debt has increased in Hungary, it is above 73%. So, in your time, when there is a crisis, public debt is rising, because it must be managed in some form. When there is a crisis, the budget deficit increases, for example, in Hungary. So it's always said that they want to compare a crisis situation with the situation of a country in a financial economy, in economic activity, it's like comparing apples to melons, they're both round, but they're not the same fruit. [[12.40]] So I understand that you have to bring this here all the time, what happened in 2008-09-10. But please compare a crisis situation to a crisis situation, not when you were able to manage the country under much more favourable circumstances, after the end of this crisis. I'd even like to respond to a third comment, just to get it on the record. You're saying you're constantly increasing the state's wealth. Just for the record, no, you guys are constantly stealing state property, so it's an accurate saying. You often take state ownership, centralize, and then sell it to your friends. So in Hungarian, it's merely a bartering with these assets, and basically, if it's a castle, then it's absolutely certain that sooner or later any object or property that looks like a castle will end up somewhere in Hungary, either at Tiborcz or at Lőrinc Mészáros or, I don't know, who. They may well have been long-awaited for some tourist development for themselves, which will take place in the coming months. The other is that Congressman Bányai talked about how good it would be if a much larger organisation were to purchase, because it would be much faster. Congressman! If you would like to consider this self-criticism, I have experienced during our administration that in all cases where a very large organisation has started to launch public procurement very effectively, it has always become slower and less effective. Unfortunately, this is a matter of fact, which is independent of the color of governments. This is always the case that, theoretically, you would be right to negotiate from a better bargaining position in larger quantities and in larger lots. Unfortunately, this has never happened in Hungarian history. So I think it's a mistake to take this away from the AEEE because it's not going to increase efficiency. If someone didn't do it right in the AEEE, they should have been kicked out of there, and if they did, it might have been a personal problem, not an organizational or systemic problem, if it didn't work effectively. Or if you say that this was the case and it didn't work effectively, then I would suggest that if this decision, this amendment of the law, had to be made, and that these purchases had to be taken away from the ÁEEC because it was not effective, then there should also be a personal consistency. After all, if someone doesn't operate or manage something effectively, and it's his job, then there's got to be some kind of consequence, and it's worth taking these leaders into account in the ÁEEK. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-52	Thank you, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Two-minute contributions will be made; first, MEP László Vigh Fideszes.
u2020-11-17-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's a constant comparison of what you've done in those eight years and what we've done in these ten years. Our debate doesn't end, because they keep telling us how right you are and what we say. However, there are always eight million citizens who tell every four years who was right, and now for the third time, two thirds of them said that we were right. There are some of my old fellow Members here, with whom we were also here in the cycles when the socialists governed, and we keep getting that we stole the money from Attila Mesterházy, and then I wonder why we are building so much. If we compare what happened to your cycles now with what happened in those eight years, what huge progress they have made, what they have created, how many roads have been built, what we now give and what you have given to the villages in the Hungarian villages, what we now give and what you have given to the cities at the time, I think there is a huge difference. So we can play this game all the time and say, yes, we did more or we say we did more, but people judge it every four years. I think that people are not stupid, they are very smart at seeing what small settlements, big cities and regions have developed since 2010. I think, regardless of the virus, today is one of the golden ages of Hungary, we will be happy to remember, in decades' time, what this country has developed, what our settlements and counties have developed. So I'm asking you to look at your eight years and our ten years in a realistic way. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-17-54	Thank you very much, Congressman László Vigh. The next two-minute Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP.
u2020-11-17-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to respond to Congressman Masterházy. Then it can be said that if the previous economic crisis was in 2008-2009, I quote your words, then the Member can certainly explain it, because for six months he was a State Secretary and for half a year he was Deputy Group Leader, with a deficit of 9.2 percent in 2006. There was no crisis! It was the second worst data in the world in 2006! Only war-torn Lebanon has preceded us all over the world in terms of budget deficits, honourable Member. And why did this happen? Well, in Autumn, you could listen to this firsthand because budget figures were falsified before the election, even the European Commission was involved so as not to have to disclose fair, real budgetary data. They brought together a 9.2 percent deficit in 2006. And by the way, between 2002 and 2007, and I'm still not talking about the years that have been hit by the crisis, how much have you reduced public debt? Help: 10 percent increase in GDP! So what you acknowledge, in those years, there was no sign of any crisis in Hungary, there was still a 10 percent increase in public debt, while they brought together budget deficits to break world records. And I am not talking about the years that have been hit by the crisis, Congressman, that is what you should be talking about. Thank you.
u2020-11-17-56	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2020-11-17-57	Thank you very much. At last, the congressman has clarified what you're talking about. That's why it doesn't matter what year we compare to him. So if you're not comparing it to the crisis, I think it's a realistic comparison. I asked you to quote me exactly, and compare it with something that makes sense to compare it. Do you know what that money went to? To the people! Imagine, the money that was increasing public debt, which was increasing budget deficits, went to Hungarian people, went to raise wages, went to upgrades, of course, not to stadium development, but to hospital, school, cradle, roads and increasing people's salaries. You can say that this was an excessive policy, you can say to the Medgyessy government that it exceeded its margin of manoeuvre, its budgetary margin, many criticized it at the time. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2006!]] We're on our side, by the way. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] the government at that time, and even since then, some have considered it to be a mistake. However, I say that it was then that the country began a course of development, from which ordinary people actually received something, and something was used in the period starting in 2002. The other thing is, Mr Vigh, I also think that this will remain the same, that when you are on the government, you think that it was a golden age, we do not think so; when we were on the government, I never thought it was a golden age, but that the resources were spent much more fairly, that is for sure. At the same time, I think we all agree that everyone is asking each other to be realistic about the situation. It seems to me that when you lost in 2002, 2006 or 1994, you didn't refer to people's wisdom as much as you did when you won. However, I would like to remind you that a whole book has been written about the developments that Hungary has made between 2002 and 10. So I think, of course, if I have to, I'll give you this book. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] To turn it around and see that the country is not only built when you are on the government. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-58	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. The next two-minute Congressman László Varju, DK.
u2020-11-17-59	Thank you very much. I would like to continue where my fellow Member Mesterházy left off in order to make Lőrinc Nacsa quite didactic for my fellow Member. Yeah, at that time, in those years, it was the people that mattered. Yes, there was a pension correction, yes, there was a flexible retirement. Yeah, there was money for doctors. And what are you doing now? They're trying to copy that, by the way, doctors... because they're destroying health care first, then they're trying to hurry and panic in order to get the doctors to pay the right salary, while you have to know that it's much more complicated than that to transform the health system. If I add that, by the way, during the ten years that have passed... because the use of EU funds has begun during previous governance, it was you who, by the way, have spent serious ten billion euros, which has resulted in Hungary being exactly the same place, because, by the way, it was used here by your friends, and today, the four regions of Hungary are exactly the same poor, the poorest ten regions in Europe. [[12.50]] In the framework of your blessed activity and an international economic activity, when there was a steady economic rise throughout Europe, while the European Union received the money every year, the Hungarian economy rose, as a result of which the people in Szabolcs, Peace, the Ormans are as poor as they were, because instead of getting it, you stole it, and your friends took that money. That's the real problem!
u2020-11-17-60	Thank you, Congressman Varju. For two minutes, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát is the betterman.
u2020-11-17-61	Mr President, Dear House, I am sure that I will find common points for criticism of the period before 2010, but let us stop for a moment. If the government's main line is what it was before 2010, well, that's hashtag pity, fellow Members. I'm sorry, but in the middle of a global crisis, when people's lives are all about their decisions, it's irresponsible to point them back to 2010. We have a lot in common, I'll say it again, but what are you doing? Right now, they are trying to redefine public money in such a way as to narrow down the categories of public money, so they want to provide less insight and restoration opportunities for all kinds of subsequent governance. They do the same to trust foundations when they place them in the dimension of fundamental laws, it will be much more difficult to touch them, while one of their leaders goes out to Brussels alongside their apparent patriot, warlike rhetoric, and starts lobbying to give more public money to large companies at home. They are trying to override the threshold of hundreds of millions of euros and push it higher so that large companies can benefit even more. They compensate for the total loss of Audi this year, compensate for the losses of multi-company companies, and the Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprise sector cannot even dream of similar opportunities. Meanwhile, all of Europe is working to make up for lost wages, and such systems are in place throughout Europe. Why not in your world? That's what I want you to talk about. These are questions that point to real nuggets. It is very important for the literature to see what was before 2010. My system criticism is about the economic policy of the last 30 years. I find very few refreshing times in this one that I can say was 100 or 110 percent. Now here's a particular historical situation, try to grow up to do that. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-17-62	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Member László Szakács, Hungarian Socialist Party, has applied for a preliminary speech.
u2020-11-17-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can join the debate at a great time, because a lot has been said before me. I can see there's an ember debate going on here, but before I respond to that, I'd like to say a few words about the novelty and timeliness of these cases. It's the Gambling Management Act that saves the victims of the Crown Virus, and we know that's what was in that salad. The concession is being redesigned again, which has never been more timely than it is now, and we need to reconfigure any rules on the gambling concession because now there's a little blanket above it. It does not exceed the public's stimuli that gambling will now be left to whose favors again after what has happened. I fully agree with my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, that when you centralised public procurement and centralised it on the basis of the functioning of the institutions that are otherwise very important and in basic care, let us say, the operation of the national institution named after poor Kuno Klebelsberg in education, after 19 months of failure, misfortune, many explanations, it was finally possible to blow up, and they expected the solution to do 19 smaller ones instead of a large institution. Anyway, it doesn't work properly, and you still have to write a lot of letters to the county center for every bus pass or a taxi ticket. Now they're gonna expect a solution from something like this again and central procurement. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] Where there are rural hospitals, where there are rural health care facilities, we have heard from the principals, doctors many times that they would rather have the local known person do the X-ray machine, the MRI, anything, because they can't wait for it to arrive from the center on the basis of the central procurement, who will fix it six times as much as the local person who has done it the usual way, and he will be able to do it now. I think that this criticism was justified, of course, when we tried to wrinkle something bigger. The same will happen to you, and as I have already said, you have already done so twice. They're trying to stuff everything into something big that's going to take care of it centrally. Now, these are the ones that don't work. Of course, we're trying to save you from disappointment. You've been there, we've been there, I think it's worth stopping. Then we see the postal services, that they'll be able to post a letter in a bank again. Well, there's nothing new about this, it was the Spéder's plan. As he set foot in the Post Office, as he was allowed to take control of the Post office with a piece of gold, as he entered the Supervisory Board as well as the Board of Directors, the Orbán government, which you thought was buffalo strength, was the best thing he could achieve, was a stalemate because Spéder led you on. That was his plan. And it wouldn't be like anywhere else in the world to give up money at the post office, no, it is now possible to mail a letter in the bank. Well, that was the Spéder's plan, and now you're doing it. It is true that Spéder has since been disgraced and broken away from the card table where you sit, but his plan has not been thrown out, and it will probably be in the banks of Lőrinc Mészáros who will get the savings banks and open up new accounts for Posta services. What's wrong with that? That Posta is one of the largest Hungarian service providers. Posta is one of the largest state employers. The work of 30,000 people should be taken into account, and the 30,000 workers of the Posta should be paid more attention. During spring, scandal followed that either you can raise wages or you can't raise wages. You referred to the Brussels with which you are constantly fighting. Why aren't the mailmen arguing in Brussels about their wages? Why aren't they developing the Post Office? Why, say, will the Savings Bank of Lőrinc Mészáros be developed, where the plans of the disgraced Zoltán Spéder can be implemented and then mailed to the Savings Bank? If I may say one more thing: I think that in the middle of the pandemic, the pandemic, the global economic crisis, Hungary needs nothing more than a good MotoGP course. That's what I say as a lover of technical sports, a man who really loves this sport, but I don't think this is the first 50 that Hungary needs. I don't think that's the most important thing to spend money on. We see what you did when you started defending yourself in the spring. They created a large defense fund to put aside the idea that they were actually renaming budget lines, so they created a defence fund either one way or another. And then what did it become? They bought the Matra Force from Butcher. There the purchase price was HUF 25 billion, and they paid him a loan of HUF 5 billion, which is HUF 30 billion together. Because it couldn't wait. The Butcher couldn't wait next year. Then, with this money that the Hungarian people were supposed to pay, they gave 82 billion forints on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and now maybe even a 60 billion-dollar MotoGP track, well, that's what the Hungarian people needed. And I think that is not what the Hungarian people are missing. The Hungarian people are missing the rules of Kurzarbeit, do not develop the job protection program, because they are walking like Polish designers, that they have developed Fiat until it has become a little Polski. There's the German example, translate it, for the Hungarians to do it. All workers who are unable to carry out their work because of the rules on the control of the coronal virus are given 80% of their wages. It's not more complicated than that. [[13.00]] True, then there will be no Lőrinc Mészáros this year; he will have it next year. It is true that the Budapest-Belgrád railway line will have to be built next year, and there may not be enough money for the MotoGP track this year. I think that this would be a better goal if people were to spend now on raising job search support from 90 days to, say, nine months, and it could not be less than 100 thousand forints a month. Believe me, a lot of people have fallen out of the system. There are 200,000 people who are over three months and are no longer entitled to anything. I believe that these are not the vague goals, but the clear goals that would serve the interests of the Hungarian people, and that could be used to make use of the property of the Republic of Hungary in order to provide security to the Hungarian people. Now we're looking at these vague goals, and we're looking at Spéder plans, and we're looking at the Butcher's plan, one way or another. We therefore believe that we are proposing these objectives instead. Private assets are growing, you're rushing, here in this debate. My fellow Members will decide that our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm is either blasphemous or a prophet, because this debate has gone to such a level. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's Fidesz-KDNP!]] That's right, that's right, that's the difference. You decide what happened in 2006, but I think people are more interested in what will happen in 2021. I'm not saying that in defense, you can stand up for the results of that time, I'm sure you can. Yeah, we spent it on people, yeah, a lot of infrastructure spent on the then government, absolutely true. And I think that even you thought that was true at the time, because if you didn't think it was true, you wouldn't have bought MOL shares from the last HUF 500 million of the remaining IMF loan, which you didn't need at the time, and then sold it to the Hungarian State for 280 billion, because MOL shares were purchased in the last HUF for the IMF loan. We do not believe that assets are treated correctly when they are placed in foundations run by Fidesz people. We believe that the property of the Republic of Hungary, the Hungarian state, does not grow or grow only when it is built by the Mészároses. Not only is it growing when... We have just listened to the Minister without the wallet responsible for Paks, but WHB Bau cannot be left out there, but not even the Butchers, since they are already planning the parade buildings and transforming the industrial park, modestly, although not offensively, for about 7 billion forints. And imagine that they are the only ones who can offer forints and pennies exactly the same offer as the contracting authority requests, and they are the only ones who can do so. That's why we're saying that you don't spend this money on people; that you spend it on friends and friends, that you realize what your fallen minions invented earlier than Spéder. I would like to point out once again as a lover of these sports: really, there is nothing Hungary needs now in this situation but a good MotoGP course for about 60 billion. Think about it again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-17-64	Thank you and welcome to my fellow Members. I now give the floor to László Vigh, representative of Fidesz, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Z. Carpathian comment by Daniel to compare the cycles: there is nothing we can do and compare. If we want to take our children to kindergarten or school, schools, kindergartens, prime ministers, how they did their job, and, by the way, compare us, parties, who does what for the good of the country. So we can't avoid that. But I'm also telling you the truth: the most important thing right now is to keep people healthy, and I'm totally right about that. Let me tell you this, because you have your party partner sitting next to you, who started yelling at the Prime Minister yesterday, the Prime Minister who starts work at 6:00 a.m. every day until midnight, and there are not many people who can stand what he's doing to slow down this virus, contain it, and treat it normally; that's all for credibility. To my fellow Member, we are focusing on a lot of things: I have been mayor for 20 years and I am in here for the fourth term. I remember the time when a school budget in education cost 100 million forints, and the state added 40 million, so 40 percent. Imagine the mayors called me around midnight, ten mayors sat down to push the $60 million together, and they couldn't add it up. When five mayors said it was okay, I put my money in it, one of the mayors said I'm sorry, it's not about the ability, it's about the opportunity, I can't agree. And then he came, and I'm sure you'll remember this era, his self-hocking era, which we called self-absorbed municipalities. And you know what was interesting? That there wasn't enough money for water, electricity, gas and wages from the municipalities. And what did we do? There was a deficit of 1,400 billion in the municipal system, and we said not to strengthen the banks, but to pay all the debts of all the municipalities. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I think when we're talking about an apology comparison, the facts are a little on our side. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-17-66	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would say to Congressman Mesterházy and Congressman Varju that once upon a time there was a theological debate about an I letter. Now you've only made one mistake, spent on your people between 2002-2010, not on people, but on your people. That's the only little "i" they missed. I'm sure Miklós Hagyó, János Zuschlag and other names will tell you something else. I was surprised that Congressman Mesterházy was setting the stadiums as an example, while in 2004 here in Parliament you demanded in a loud voice to build the then government stadium, UEFA-qualified stadiums. That's what you asked for here in Parliament. And just how much you helped people at the time: inflation figures in the 2004-05-06-07 years are still not about the years that have been hit by the crisis, Mr Mesterházy, MEP 6,8-9 percent, such inflation figures are found in the years of peace, calm and economic development. You raised the public sector's wage by 2-3 percent and then caused 6.8 percent and 7.9 percent inflation. Exactly the same thing they gave people, not only did they inflame it, but they even inflated a month's salary over a year. Such bad data has been produced thanks to your bad and failed economic policy, 6,8-9 percent inflation. They may have spent some money on people, but they only inflated and took it away from them through inflation. Count this, too, honourable Member, because I think it is very simple to do math, how much worse people were at that time, and what a continuous downswing has started, and I am still talking about not the crisis, but before that. This was all due to your economic policy. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-17-68	Thank you. We will continue with the two-minute comments. Attila Mesterházy, of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-17-69	Thank you very much. The way Mr. László Vigh talks about his own government is respectable. I think it's right for a pro-government representative to believe in his own government's activities. Don't get that right out of our way. So we believe that what we represent in politics would certainly help the situation of Hungarian people and Hungarian families better, according to our faith. I understand that your hero is Viktor Orbán; let us not have him. And there are still a number of people in Hungary, such as nurses, doctors, firefighters, policemen, shopkeepers, who also start their work in the morning and work late at night, only for a much less salary and for a smaller opportunity to raise wealth than the Prime Minister or his family. So, in order for him to get up early, he's lying late, let's not celebrate him here in Parliament yet. That's one of my comments. The other is that Lőrinc Nacsa missed an i letter very witty. And I'm looking for an adjective. When you're talking about a family-friendly government, I'd like to add an adjective: a family-friendly government. Then we can agree that this is the essence of your family's policy, how to put their own families in a better position, to steal more money for them, respect for the exception. By the way, if you've listed the prison team, I'd like to remind you that the people you've been talking about have gone to jail because they've violated some kind of law. There's a significant difference between those of you who violate such laws and do not go to prison in the majority of you. Although you already have such a prison team, because Roland Mengyi is serving his well-deserved sentence, Congressman Simonka is sitting in the benches among you, and you have another representative from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County who has not been imprisoned because you have not otherwise granted his immunity, and so he has escaped his punishment, while all the other associates who have been involved in a crime are otherwise serving a well-deserved prison sentence. So be careful with those comments. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]] [[13.10]]
u2020-11-17-70	Thank you. I would like to tell Mr Szakács and Mr László Vigh that I can no longer give them a two-minute speech in this round, so for two minutes, Mr László Varju, representative of DK will be next. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to remind you, first of all, that there was a two-thirds law in respect of municipalities during the heroic era that you are talking about. This law did not prevent local governments from being indebted. As a result, your prime minister in the 2000s, when they were in opposition, in Kaposvár, encouraged all their local government leaders to be indebted, to take it in foreign currency, because if we're next, you mean, you'll pay it back. And it was during that period that, for a 12 percent commission, there were only 24 municipalities or municipalities in which, by the way, billions of loans were taken up, as a result of the investigation. This was part of today's President of the Court of Auditors, and we could say that, while the debate took place between the walls of this House, that, by the way, the debt of the municipalities must be stopped, and you did not support it, you prevented the municipalities from being indebted. If you wish, feel free to take out the records and remember them. Here it is, the chairman of the county assembly was the congressman, mayors, and I myself was mayor, so don't forget this period. The other part, which I will return to in the remaining 10 seconds, is that in itself, you know, Congressman, what you are talking about, the exchange rate of the euro was 260 forints, and today it was 360 forints, and this minus 100 forints, which Hungarian people had to suffer, was caused by you with a conscious policy of foreign exchange reduction and destruction, so that the Hungarian National Bank could carry out many billions of forints on its own. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-72	Thank you. Now we're going to have regular speeches. I give the floor to János Stummer, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, If you have entertained each other with who has stolen more in the last eight or ten years, then with your permission, I would like to return to the debate on the bill and to speak with the honour of both the House and the Secretary of State about what the bill before us is about. My fellow Members well indicated and well said that it was indeed the Fidesz mayor of Szabadkereszós, József Balogh, a few days ago, if all is true, then he sent a private letter to the four Fidesz Members of the county of Békés in order to rethink what the Fidesz and the government would like to do with the Wenckheim Castle in Szabadkereszós. I am very sad to note that when this debate is being discussed here in this House, none of the four Fidesz Members are in this Chamber, neither Tamás Herczeg, nor Béla Dankó, nor József Kovács, nor György Simonka. Let's just say the latter might be better, because it would be rather strange if the robber became the pandur and he had to protect the common goods. By the way, to the honour of Tamás Herczeg, at least a few hours ago, he tabled an amendment to his own government to withdraw this proposal and to begin a consultation with the citizens of Free Snake about the fate of this particular castle. Let's take a look at this case yourself. With your permission, I'll start by bringing a quote from the website of the Schossberger Castle in Tura. I copied this from the Internet this morning, and I would like to read it here:. The wonderful castle garden can be visited by everyone, on the basis of an advance check-in. The visitor ticket is 2500 HUF, which is payable on the spot and includes a cup of coffee or tea served after the walk. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So this is how the simple mortal on earth gets into this beautiful castle in Tura, which, by the way, was renovated with public money, the taxpayers paid for the check, and then, in some way, it ended up in the property or interest of the Prime Minister's family. And it is not in the castle that the good citizens of Tura can enter, but in the garden and at most in the palm house, but also by chance, this one being logged in in in advance, after the payment of 2500 forints. The people who are willing and able to pay for the cheapest superior room the potom 110 thousand forints one night's sleep at the Tura Castle can go into the castle itself. By the way, this castle in Tura started to be renovated in 2015 with some HUF 4.5 billion of common money, and the castle was opened last year, more precisely: it was closed in front of the locals. It happened that, in mid-July 2020, on a bright summer day, the operators of the Castle of Tura allowed the citizens of Tura to present their address card on this one day! You can go to the castle park free of charge and see for free what a fantastic common treasure the castle of Tura is after it has actually been saved from the total loss. You have interpreted it, communicated it by showing it to the citizens of Tura, while, in reality, what happened was that the Tura citizens could say goodbye to this castle on this bright summer day in July 2020. Well, this is the fate that free-snake citizens are now afraid of, the free-snake citizens who have moved in recent days in order for the government to withdraw this proposal and start talking to them about what the fate of this castle should be. They fear and fear that free-snake citizens will walk the same way as the Turans, and not by chance, because the first signs are already visible. This castle park was surrounded by a wire fence of two meters, the old side entrances were welded down, and when they think it is possible to enter the castle park, which I myself and many other free-snake and neighborhood citizens have been allowed to visit for free and without restrictions in recent years, decades. What's happening now in the Snake House is rather suspicious, what's more, it reeks from afar. Let's look at the story of how events have been going in the last few weeks, in a few months. On October 11, when everyone, the whole country, or at least most of the country, paid attention to Borsod County, Szerencs, Tiszaújváros, a black jeep stopped on the other side of the country in this castle park in Szabadkszengo, and on this Sunday two gentlemen jumped out of the black jeep: one was Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the other was probably János Lázár. Orbán and János Lázár probably decided on this Sunday, October 11th, which was kept completely secret, what to do with this castle and castle park in the coming years and decades. They probably decided that when the situation brought it in the way that it would be possible, the best moment would be, that they would bring this law into the Hungarian Parliament, as they would otherwise do under the law. Then last week, with the agreement of approximately 133 courageous Members and, exceptionally, now, with the agreement of opposition representatives, but with the mandate law, they gave themselves the opportunity of communication policy to bring legislative proposals to the House at such a huge rate and in such a huge amount, including this. [[13.20]] But if an eye-eared journalist does not spot out of this bill that you plan to transfer from the Hungarian National Asset Manager to the Farmhouse, then it is probably more than likely that the free-snake residents, but even the Fidesz mayor of Szabadskereszós will later be informed about what happened to the castle park, and what happened to the castle park that he worked for 20-22 years and fought for the benefit of free-snake citizens; so this article was published in the newspaper HVG about what you were planning. The mayor of Szabadszerós wrote to the members of the Fidesz Parliament that please do something, so that if this castle park is attached to Mezőhegyes, then I could tie it to Kosovo, about as much as Szabadkerós has to do with Mezőhegyes. Nevertheless, I see that the Fidesz and the Fidesz government are still not moving their ears on this issue. Some of us have decided to start collecting signatures in order for the government to change its position, withdraw this proposal, and start consulting, consulting the citizens of Free Snake, and finally listen to the opinion of the people who live there, what they really want, what they want to give their names to, what they give their consent to. I would like to inform you that, over the last two or three days, hundreds of free-snake citizens have signed these signatures by hand, personally, physically and on the Internet, not only free-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snake-snakes, Kondoros, Kondoros-os and many others from the Province of Peace. It's a common value to which everyone who lives there, in Free Snake or in the neighborhood, insists on ten nails, and now you're trying to get behind their backs on some road-to-way, my sundae coat to expropriate, to piss, somehow to channel into your own interests somehow. I've got 300 honest free-snake citizens signing in front of me right now. He stood up as one, the village stood up as one, in order to change this position by the government. I know, Mr. Secretary, that when you came into this Parliament and you were sent here to discuss this bill, if you looked at this map, this free-snake castle was, at most, a point on this map, and for you, this free-snake castle is nothing more than a park. But for us, who grew up there, in this park, in this castle, who were children there, who are taking their own children out there now, our grandparents, our great-grandparents, who are taking their children and their grandchildren out there to this day to show this fantastic beauty, which is the jewel of the whole of the county of Peace, it's not just a point on the map for us. For us, the free-snake castle is part of our home. We're very attached to this castle. We have our roots in the trees of this castle park. We want to keep these roots, and we want to pass them on to our children, and we want our children to share these roots with our own. I ask you now, in agreement with the Free Snake Citizens of Hungary, to withdraw this bill and start talking to us locals about the fate of this castle park. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-17-74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Then I'll start with a little castle, too, although I was preparing for something else, because Congressman Varju brought out the memory citizen in me. Let me tell you that Congressman Stummer and my other fellow Members are talking about a castle renovation in connection with the Free Snake Castle, which has its garden, its gates closed because it is being renovated! Right now, it's better to stay away from the free-snake citizens. By the way, I agree that it's a little too far to control you. We're talking about a state stable, a state company that wants to run this castle. By the way, an amendment can be tabled, and we may be able to convince several of our fellow Members to remove it from the law, but this castle will not be transferred to the private property of János Lázár, it will not cost me or any of them. This will remain the property of the Hungarian State. It'll be refurbished with a lot of money, beautifully refurbished. As far as I know, the renovation company has renovated another castle, the Wenckheim castle in Békés county, so their work will be beautiful. I had the opportunity, along with L. Simon László, to renovate a castle in another county. Trust me, these are wonderful programs. Sándor Burány was attacked by several of them. If I hadn't been the chairman of the county assembly at the time, I would have had a former socialist representative, Dr. László Balogh, as my helper, if we hadn't joined hands with a smart national emotional left-wing man who, despite all other socialist wishes, had we not been able to renovate the archbishop Baroque castle, one of the most beautiful buildings in Bács-Kiskun County, with his garden, which has become the most beautiful baroque garden in Hungary since then. No one is angry with the sailors that they have to pay that 500 or thousand forints if they want to visit, because they have to be maintained. There are crowds in the castle garden to take pictures. The castle is beautiful. It'll be nice to have a free-snake man. You can visit him. One question is that another organization of the Hungarian state, not the directorate of museum castles and others, will maintain it, but another organisation will maintain it. I'm not afraid of that. By the way, John Lazarus knows about castle renovations, which is the heart of him. I know that he, or anyone else, has the same purpose to save this castle, and I will not say it again, John Lázár's private fortune. By the way, I think the mayor is just a word, a phone away from being heard by any government representative or secretary of state, Minister of State on this matter. I think the renovation of the castle as a cultural treasure should be supported. With the Castle of Tura, they come here to become the castle of the Tiborcz family. Have you seen this castle before? They saw him, he wanted to crash, there was no window, the walls collapsed. An entrepreneur came, true, to misfortune, the Prime Minister's son-in-law, received 50 percent support for this and renovated the castle. It really was a luxury castle when it was built by its former builder. It's become a luxury hotel. Now, please, it was a ruin, it wasn't good; now they've built a luxury building on its old ruins, but now it's no good either. Nothing's good here, then. We also found out from today's debate that it is a waste to spend money on castles and castles. But then what would they show in Szabadszerós, Turán, Hajós, or in New Snake or in any other settlement in Hungary where there are castles if we do not renovate them? You didn't start these, you didn't support them at the time. You are here, Congressman Mesterházy, I am amazed at you, we know each other, you must defend the honour of the mundér in relation to family-friendly governance, and you know how much damage you have done to Hungarian families. To say to this programme that it is not family-friendly, but that it is a friend of some families by holding hundreds of billions of Hungarian women and men with a family, raising children, it cannot be a sin. You have abolished these factual issues when, and said Lőrinc Nacsa, there was a boom in the country, while the year 2002-2003 brought very high GDP data, and that's when the ceiling started to break. You say that you are proud that you took 14 700 billion forints of loans during your operation and spent this on Hungarian people. Well, I didn't see that. They didn't see it either. I don't think anyone saw it, because it didn't have any development, since 12 000 billion EU funds were taken up between 2004 and 2010. Can you list improvements in as many numbers as you do now? We're supposed to have stolen everything, they're saying that we stole EU funds. That's what Congressman Varju keeps saying, he can name three people he can blame. I'm taking on EU support myself because I'm farming. So I'm gonna steal the money, too? Well, let's not joke. Such a generalization, that we are soiling the European Community, that Fidesz people are stealing EU money! Well, why would they say that? If they develop, they get support, their companies, their families, their businesses. Well, why are you doing this? It is not necessary to discredit EU funds by spreading them around the world, if someone receives EU funding, it may be billions, perhaps just one or two ten million or one or two million forints. [[13.30]] It's a joke, and I think it's more of a betrayal. But to be proud that they fed pensioners on credit, gave them money, pensions, they paid for their heating from it, and the Hungarians bought food from it, and they helped the country out of it, it was not to be proud, it was a dilettious government, it was a dilettious economic policy; which fed the people from credit, they saw what would become of it. I know a lot of people who earn their living on credit. In the end, he can't afford it, it's always gonna end, and the whole country's been played. Well, we know what happened in 10, and before that in 2008-2009, you arranged this, so that poor Hungarians took out an interest-rate loan of HUF 10 000 billion, and the multiples of what they say we allowed, the EU negotiation had a basic requirement to take out loans in another currency, but you canceled the forint loan, never forget it. But this is once again a look back to the past, and Dániel Z. Carpathian again told us how unworthy it is to talk about it today. But I think dilettant government must be presented. Congressman Varju, you are also right, not in Kaposvár, but in a faction meeting, Prime Minister said that it was not an order, he asked that county assemblies and county towns and local government leaders should not allow anyone to be left unsatisfactioned because you took 20 percent of the resources from 2006 to 2007. He told us to borrow money to pay off the drugs, the treatment, the doctors, because we had hospitals, we had institutions, we had 94 institutions. We took part in the loan so that we wouldn't get to the fate they wanted us to get, because Mónika Lamperth told us that he knew what he was doing in 2006, when they failed the election. Then they were working on it; we stopped it, but we didn't owe it to them. With us, the state has even benefited from the records. But in essence, it's a sad story that you're going to present here as a glory to all our countrymen. But then let's see if the state assets... It is said here that we have taken the fortune, that is what Congressman Mesterházy said. Specifically, what we have sold over the past ten years is wealth of such high value that you have sold in line in 2002 or between 94 and 99 and 2002-2010. Let's look at it in a row, because development is opposed to relief and money distribution and spending money. This is a bad policy, and you know it, Mr President, Mr Varju, that development must never be opposed to one's spending money on social care, because one's for today and the other's for the future. Well, he confronted us with how wrong we are to develop, instead of giving the money, all the money to the Hungarian people. But let's see how the wealth of the Hungarian state disappeared behind your work, as you say that we are the ones who are stealing the property. But what have you done? So, how'd they save the fortune? You premeditatedly sold the Ferihegy Airport in 2005 with Antenna Hungária, with potom 100 billion forints on it. But if we want to buy back at the value of this, the airport in Ferihegy, Budapest Airport, Liszt Ferenc Airport is now worth an average of EUR 3 billion. You sold MOL shares in 2004. The market price at the time of the sale was six times higher than the market price at the time of the sale six years later. Where'd that money go? The 70 billion that was sold was worth six times the share in six months. I didn't get any, I didn't buy any. Surget Nyeftegaz was very good for him, but I'm sure someone who sold it at such a low price, because everyone said, and Mihály Varga wasn't the finance minister, and you remember not to sell it, because it's gonna be worth a lot more in six months. But it had to be sold because someone really needed it, what came back from it, or I don't know what happened. They sold the national utility companies, all of them, remember, right, 94-98 was. It was Tamás Suchman, but they were milk brothers. All Hungarian water, electricity and gas suppliers were practically sent to the floor by selling and giving us an even 8 percent profit-back opportunity that they all guaranteed their profits. And that's when you're going to tell us that we're about to take the wealth, the state fortune, with János Fónagy in the lead, or with the ministers in the lead, and up to me, while you've spread it. He made 250 billion in this privatisation around the Horn government at that time. Do you know how much money that is? It's a lot, and if we had that kind of money, it would be a lot, but the value of it wasn't even sold at a fifth price, and they practically took the assets from the local authorities, and they had a power company or a gas company in their portfolio with their stock portfolio. The Malév was sold for 200 million forints, remember? Oh, that sucks. Well, I'd go now, I don't know, like, Zrinyi Street, and I'd buy a three or four-bedroom apartment or two, and that's what I'd have to pay for a Malév, with full flight and landing rights. The value of this must have been hundreds of times what we lost on it, and you're telling us that we want to steal the property with this law, we want to carry it away, with Ripper the Ripper in front, and me and the rest of the Fidesz. Well, why are we doing this? Remember, all of you. Then what else happened? Back in the day, you sold the most profitable company in the MÁV.Lőrinc Nacsa, MÁV Rail Cargo, for 114 billion forints. It was sold for the same amount as Postabank to Erste Bank, but before that it was capitalized on 200 billion. What are we talking about? They put a profitable company on the market, we can't even buy it back. It would be stupid to give it back to the Austrian state, so why would he give it back? Well, I'm so stupid... I'm sorry, it's not supposed to be on the record, so I'm gonna need you to pull this out, please. This is the stupidest country that has ever seen his most profitable company sold. Do you want me to list it? All the banks you guys beat up. And in the concession stuff, are you here to tell us that we're amending the concession law, or is it the traff act? Well, please, do you remember the M1, M5, M6 concession? [[L. Simon László: The M6! That's enough!]] Well, it was pretty rough. The M6 costs us 200 billion a year for your concession. It would have cost 400 to build the whole thing, you sold it. [[L. Simon László intervenes.]] Twenty-five years, two thousand thirty-something, we have to pay 200 billion a year. Now, how much of that road construction could be done in Szabadskerosós, let's say, I don't know where László Varju lives now, or how many trips we could get around Nyíregyháza every year, but we'll give it to you because of your bad decision, it's just a freeway section, and let's not talk about the rest of it, and we'll pay all our fees every year afterwards. And then one thing I have to admit is that it's a bad law, I accept it. Don't vote for it. You know why? It doesn't have a point where the Gyurcsány-Dobrev clan returns the stolen property, all of it, starting with Motim, and all the other items they took and what they collected, if that's in it, please vote for it. As an amendment, it might be a good law, by the way, Mr. Secretary of State, to return those socialist baron politicians, not your voters, but your former fellow politicians and their candidate for Prime Minister, or your wife, which they stole for potom money. If I had five million forints, my mother-in-law would give me a 700 million loan from my bank. My poor mother-in-law made that mistake, but luckily I didn't get it, and I'm buying a state fortune for 5 million forints. This is the Gyurcsány family, and you are proud of it. That's free, and we're gonna fix a pass or two here, and they're gonna spring on a castle that's gonna remain a state castle. I'm a little shocked by this part of the debate, and I'd like to end it myself, because this time is almost over, but I'm asking you to accept and support it. Although there will be two minutes, all I ask is for everyone to look deep into themselves; those who steered, in any way, who didn't, to know who shouldn't join. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-17-76	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Szakács, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems like this is going to be a report for everyone for the past ten or twenty years, but let's look into the future. Although I would look backwards, I remember one time when they wanted to set up a committee of inquiry in the Committee on Economic Affairs for an economic abuse, I was the only one who had an amending proposal that I wanted to have more Fidesz Members involved in the work of the Economic Committee here, because it is an economic abuse. They were surprised that I made that suggestion. I asked that even then, since we were talking about cooperative funds, the operation of them, György Simonka should participate in this work, including Flórián Farkas, perhaps István Happy, and that if you were free at the time, who was being prosecuted at the time, the Vice President of the Economic Commission, Roland Mengyi, would still be involved in this work. You didn't even pay attention to doing these things under the table once in a while. No, this was done above the table, and the vice president of the Economic Commission was Roland Mengyi, who was court-martialed for economic crimes. All you have to say for yourself is that at least you didn't attend the committee meetings, but the money, I guess, you picked it up. Here's the question. We have just heard a rather emotional speech from Gábor Bányai. [[13.40]] I would like to ask you then, in this regard, we have heard that an entrepreneur has come and restored the castle, Mr. Secretary of State, that either of them may come or only Tiborcz, because so far only Tiborcz has been able to win. As with Paks II, the Butchers have not yet performed such performance, the Butchers are still winning, even if they have many competitors, West Hungária Bau wins. Could anyone really have come and renovated this castle and won a 50 percent grant, or could Tiborcz have just come? [[L. Simon László: That's his!]] Today, the successful, the good entrepreneur, who has mastered the pranks of any profession through success and failure, and then, after much learning, will be successful, or the one to whom the finger of the dear leader points out? We think it is who Viktor Orbán's finger points to. Well, no one else could have done it. I ask you, the Posta will be able to conclude a contract with a bank other than the B3 Savings Bank of Ripper Lőrinc and MKB? Will another bank be able to sign a contract with him under this law, or has that been decided a long time ago? Well, of course he won't. That's why we say it's a family-friendly government. I understand what's been going on in the past, and we could say things like that. The most affluent cities, please: Debrecen led by Károly Szita, the Hódmezővásárhely led by János Lázár, and Lajos Kósa. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Because you bled out the municipalities!]] Yes, I can hear what my fellow Member Nacsa is saying and that it should be included correctly in the minutes: because we bled out the municipalities. Then you will see how the corporate holding companies in Debrecen stood in 2008, especially in the Arad-Debrecen axis; that 2 billion forints of loans were tarnished in Hódmezővásárhely! They spent it on Asphalt and spent it on concrete! Exactly what my colleague László Vigh is talking about happened after 2006. They didn't spend it on people, they didn't take it for benefits, it wasn't an operating loan. They spent it on Asphalt, renovated a sidewalk, and you could say a lot of that. One more thing: you know, my honourable fellow Member, which must be included here, on which you have been searching, not too little, much. Well, a brokerage firm took on all the county government's foreign exchange loans, used them as a treasure, switched them! It was a brokerage company that took credit for these county-righted cities, not for a small commission, for a lot of money. Well, why isn't the tree talking about that? So I think that this isn't a joke or a category of betrayal, but a category of selective memory. Then I won't go back to Silver Boat, Kaya Ibrahim, Josip Totig. [[L. Simon László: Come on! Oh, come on.]] Each one of them is, you know, always taking an illusion from a person and giving more experience, especially when we talk about it. I think that if we go back to the bill, ask ourselves that if we accept this proposal, this country will be a better country because there will be a MotoGP course, because you will implement the plan of the disgraced Spéder and, after all, the Posta will just be rolled into one of the banks; only now it will not be in Spéder's, but in the bank of Lőrinc Mészáros. So there's more of that to say. This is probably not going to make Hungary a better farmer anyway, and this is not going to make Hungary a better place. If you'd spent at least that much on the pandemic, or if you'd spent all this money on the development that you're now spending on, and I wouldn't mix social benefits with the development that would be available... HUF 83 billion in the Kisfaludy program for the renovation of hotels that you'd have had time to close. We could afford 60 billion of the MotoGP track. Wouldn't you have been busy? Wouldn't it be time to pay 82 billion forints next year on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line? This could help families, they're in trouble, and the Budapest-Belgrád railway will stay there next year. There was no competition at the MotoGP track this year, and there probably wouldn't be a competition next year, and it was free next year. You could have used these money elsewhere, and we're saying that, obviously, it's a difference of perspective. We'd rather help the families, and you'd like to build a MotoGP track instead, and somehow hand over the Post to the Ripper's bank, but it's a big company, a lot of people working there, and everyone's always gonna use it. I think they're part of the truth we've heard and the last 20 years we've heard. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-17-78	Thank you. We are starting a two-minute circle, and I would like to point out to my fellow Members that, although I have a degree in history, I would very much like to hear the historical reflection, but focus on the bill before us. Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-79	Thank you very much. Since there is a process of the creation of state wealth, I think that it is justified, especially if my fellow Member mentions it and thus recalls it, it is worth remembering even when Malév ceased to exist. But that is not what I would like to mention to you, but that, since 2004, when we joined the European Union, there is a possibility that EU funds can be used to catch up. You, Congressman, can't deny the renewal of 365 kindergartens and nurserys, you still remember the programme "The Light of Our Eyes" and we could list all the things that gave our children a better opportunity. You know exactly, and that's why you shouldn't say or say that, please, that it didn't happen at that time. It was then, in fact, a lot of sewer construction to make Hungary's sewage treatment cleaner; motorway construction, that the lower motorways were built on a thousand kilometres. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: What are you talking about?]] You couldn't turn over one kilometer of what you did. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But not to be debatable, otherwise, because we're arguing [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's all he lies at once!]] How you do this and how you've done it, then put one thing in this law, my fellow Member. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let us say that they will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and then the debate will end, because otherwise the comments of the European Anti-Fraud Office, which you are doing and what you are doing, will be made clear. Today, Hungary is the most condemned country in this regard, and here is the most fraud, to which the Hungarian institutional system does not fully respond. That is why I propose that Congressman complete this law, and then neither the castle nor the renovation will have any problems. Thank you.
u2020-11-17-80	Thank you. I give the floor two minutes to Congressman János Stummer of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-17-81	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you very much, Mr President, for trying to get this debate back in the proper way, at least what is in this bill and what is not, but it seems that you have some compulsive urge to argue about who has stolen more in recent years. I would like to respond to Mr Bányai's substantive observations in a few sentences. Congressman! This is not a prejudice on the part of free-snake citizens, but a post judgment. There's been a mistake. The two-meter fence is not around the construction site, so there is not only a fence where the machines work and make it nicer, and we agree with each other: this castle is more beautiful. The two-meter fence is around the multi-hatre castle park, so you can't go into the castle park in the same way and in the form of free-snake citizens and no one else than you did in the previous decades on the one hand. On the other hand: János Lázár really loves castles, we have already seen this, and we also see that Mezőhegyesi Ménesbirtok Zrt. how he works in the market and how he tries to work and farm from tourism, horse tourism. And that, I'm sorry, Congressman Bányai, but at the renovation of the castle in Tura, Tiborcz was just passing by, and then he was the one who renovated it? Clicking on the Internet, and you hop, ran into a public procurement? It was written on it, Congressman, and it's also meant for my friends to renovate this free-snake castle. [[13.50]] Thirdly, it is included in this bill that in order to promote cultural heritage conservation, education and vocational training purposes, Mezőhegyi Ménes property will be owned by the free-snake castle. So be it. Why do you just push it like that? Why one day at a time, no talking, no talking? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Cancel this bill and coordinate with the free-snake citizens. We're not asking for any more or less. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-82	Thank you very much. [[Towards the pro-government benches:]] Before I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, I respectfully draw the attention of my fellow members of the Government to the fact that their rendezvous should not be carried out in plenary. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-17-83	Thank you very much, Mr President, and we will also heed the warning. I thought Congressman Varju would be talking about where metro 4 went 166 billion to his left-wing circles; he was silent about it. Nor does Congressman Varju pride himself on the fact that the PPP construction of motorways M5 and M6 has been the most scandalous contract in the last 30 years. While you had to carry land to steal tunnels; while, to this day, to this day, this year, when you want to spend resources on anything for epidemiological protection, an action plan for job protection, whatever you want to spend on, you should remember that every year, even now, there are over a hundred billion dollars in the amount that you have to pay in the Hungarian budget because of your harmful PPP construction. This year's budget is over 150 billion forints, Congressman. The Hungarian state could manage 150 billion forints more, and could spend 150 billion forints more on people if you hadn't done PPP construction with your friends and carried land there unnecessarily to make the highway even more expensive and build a tunnel. Mr. Congressman, talk about why you have made such constructions that are harmful to the Hungarian people, why you have concluded contracts with which the Hungarian people have been wronged; talk about this! And you can also speak freely about it, as my colleague from Bányai has already pointed out how many castles were renovated between 2002 and 2010. Because the national castle program didn't exist at the time. It started after we protected, protected and restored our built heritage, and at least partly the castles and castles, which have been abandoned in Hungary and are often the victims of extinction, can shine again in their old glory. We believe that this belongs to our culture and that it is our duty to preserve our heritage. I want you to talk about how many castles you've renovated and how much money you've stolen from subway 4 and M5 motorway M6. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-17-84	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, a normal speech from the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I understand the President's intelligence, but history has something to do with current wealth management, because there is a debate about how rational this wealth management is, how effective it is. In this, from the looks of it, there are different positions. I would also ask Mr Stummer to understand that there are many things in the past that are rooted in today's problems, and I think that the dissection of the past is sometimes useful, sometimes less useful. Perhaps we would expect a little more understanding from their side towards the Allies. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] On the other hand, many comments have been made, especially on the part of Congressman Nacsa, but also on the part of Congressman Bányai, which is... So, there is no problem with criticism, Congressman Bányai, but I think that you are good or accurate if you do not apply double standards. So you're gonna tell me that we generalize, I'm gonna add, I didn't generalize. I didn't say that all EU funds were being stolen, but if I remember correctly, my fellow Member Varju didn't talk about it either. We were quite precise, exactly, at least I told you where I saw the problem. But after you told us that we generalize, you immediately said that this was a dilettante government earlier, along with all its elements; then I think you should not be offended if we say that it is a thief's government that is happening now, with some generalization. I think you understand exactly what we're talking about. Several people were asking that question. Today, in Hungary, in the area of state wealth and various state-built assets, our problem is that this is not happening on the basis of market competition, as my fellow Member Szakács said, and many of my fellow Members Stummer, it is not that anyone starts with equal opportunities, but who has better political relations, who has some kind of kinship with fidesz leading politicians, that they have an advantage. There is no competition in the tenders or in the acquisition of certain assets. What is happening in Hungary today is a violent transformation of ownership. It is possible to argue that suchman's privatisation was good; I would add that the revenue from it was included in the Hungarian budget at the same time. I think this would be a criticism of what was the right decision at the time, but since that is not what the debate is about, I would not go into this in more detail; but it certainly was not in a violent way and on the basis of market competition. Now, I think it is quite clear that, on the basis of political relations, Hungarian ownership and economic positions are being transformed. Secondly, my colleague from Banya said that credit is bad, people are fed from credit. I am surprised at this view because billions of euros have just been borrowed. Although it has previously been said that we should not borrow from the European Union, and that the IMF is bad; it seems to me that the Chinese Communist Party is not as bad as the IMF, because they take on Chinese credit, or it seems that Russian credit is not as bad as the European Union or the state loan, as they have previously taken on Russian credit. The other is that in the case of Tiborcz, we see that not just anyone can renovate castles. But by the way, my fellow Member Nacsa, no one here criticized the need to renovate castles in Hungary. We criticized his method and criticized his time as to whether the renovation of a castle now, in this pandemic situation, might be his best solution, or perhaps it would be possible to spend these resources on something else at the moment, as my fellow Member Szakács mentioned in other examples: the Budapest-Belgrád railway line or other such issues. And the other significant difference, as Congressman Bányai said here, came the Tiborcz, an unfortunate point for this castle, but he received 50 percent state aid in the form of non-refundable aid. So it does become private in some way, and it doesn't do it with its own money. Let me add one more. My colleague Nacsa mentioned the M6. If I wanted to be very self-critical right now, I'd say they learned their lesson, because I just read yesterday that they're extending this section. They will build new viaducts, and if the journalists are well calculated from public data, it will cost HUF 4.7 billion per kilometer of this motorway, which they want to extend, and by the way, we may be talking about one of the smallest motorways of traffic in Hungary today. So I think you should be more careful with the cutting here in this regard. As it could then be in this, as Gábor Bányai suggested an additional point. What if the congressman suggested that the return of the property that Tiborcz and Mészáros had been hacked should be included in this bill? Maybe we'd rather vote for this, too. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-86	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The joint general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary Major. [[László Földi takes his place as notary.]]
u2020-11-17-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I admit that I took notes in the first hour and a half and tried to find meaningful answers to your suggestions, not debating the task of the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament, which is suitable and the most important place for political, social and economic policy debates, but I feel that we have deviated significantly from the bill that I have tabled, which is indeed colourful and contains many elements. Therefore, allow me to reflect only on questions that are partly related to the proposal, are partly of principle or of principle, or on some things that have hit my ears, and which I do not stop to not answer or mention. In the beginning, let me also make the remark that I value my fellow Members significantly more than they showed me this morning. [[14.00]] [[Dr. László Varga will take his place in the notary seat.]] I do not dispute their anger, I do not dispute their emotions, I do not dispute the pressure of expression due to their political commitment, but please believe that they sometimes go beyond the limits that require serious consideration or serious response. Just one comment, someone here mentioned how many highways they had built. In 2002 the section of the M3 Füzesabony-Colgar, including the civilian Tisza bridge, was finished. The grass has not grown on the side of the charge, and I asked the Prime Minister, as Minister of Transport, to transfer it before the elections. Prime Minister said no, when the grass grows, I'll let you know when it's ready. He didn't grow out that far, and three weeks after the elections, Péter Medgyessy handed over the 63 kilometers of highway, including the bourgeois Tisza bridge, which was built by the first Orbán government. I'm not arguing, you've built freeways, which is why I'm telling you this debate about who did what. The other is what it cost. Please, the M5 motorway, by the way, was examined by a socialist majority committee of inquiry back in the day, and then led the whole thing into the sand, so it didn't end so well. But there was no dispute in the fact that in the construction project at that time, which was otherwise awarded a concession, the foreign consort required a 17.5 percent return on equity in the contract, which was not in the world. 17.5 per cent of capital is in the case of drug, arms and girl trade and not in the case of infrastructure development. So I'm telling you, I don't want to give you the examples here, I'm just saying it's different. In the first round, he remembered that the foundation was some kind of sinful congregation. I wasn't lazy, I looked out here that the foundation, the word itself, was designated by István Széchenyi, and since the mid-1800s, the foundation was a generally established, and then in the legislative wave after the compromise, the foundation form in Hungarian social and economic life was a generally established formula. So we didn't invent it, we didn't invent it for sinful purposes. The foundation has been operating before, they are still operating, and I am very confident that they will continue to work in the future. Maybe I'll fall for that mistake, too, because all I see of the world is bad. The concession is not a sin if it is used for what it is for, and if the consort has national interests, if the internal content of the concession involves both raising capital, sharing responsibility and all of it, it is a forward-looking and a good thing. It can be used for good and it can be used for bad. At some point in the morning, my presentation to my professional has gone to evaluate the situation today, why we do not deal here with who will give the vaccine, what and to whom, and why we are dealing with something like this, which we have presented here. I would just like to remind my fellow left-wing Members that you have recently voted in favour of a delegation law, the essence of which is that the epidemic is dealt with by the government and not by Parliament. It's written longer, but that's the point, so let's get someone else here. For what we bring here, in addition to the fact that the government has a continuous work, which I allow, perhaps even slower than it should be, because the world is independent of us, and we don't always have to deal with what we plan to do, but what the world's flow and fate brings to us as a task; but the government does its work, and in doing so, there are things that are worth, created, sometimes belong to a wallet or to an organization, and we bring them to Parliament for a decision. This is a natural order of the world and of legislation, I imagine, which is not disputed by you. Why am I telling you this? Because in recent weeks and months there has been a debate that you have revived abroad, that the Hungarian Parliament is working, that Hungarian parliamentarianism exists, how the Hungarian rule of law is, by the way. Thank you very much, very well, thank you very much, it works. As a result of the government's work, we bring to a functioning Parliament issues to be decided, and we very much hope that Parliament will discuss them and that everyone will support or oppose them, according to their own social convictions. In this connection, I would like to say to Mrs Varga-Damm that, if you have a proposal to amend our proposals, we always ask our fellow Members to improve the government's presentation with their amendments. In this case, I would like to encourage him to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, said that, and this has come up several times between us, I am pleased to say that we have also just recently presented to Parliament, in the previous years, a debate on what is the national inventory of assets, what is the inventory of assets, which is sometimes understandable. The differences between the state wealth inventory and the national wealth inventory have now been clearly regulated, and I trust that you know this, and that you have the details. To my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, I believe that I have responded. We're not rushing, we're doing the work and we're doing it. Ladies and gentlemen, Wouldn't you like to go to the general, by the way? In many cases, it is understandable to go into overheated polemia. I would ask you to get to know the proposal, to discuss it in the committees, if you have any amendments, to submit them, and if you agree with them, which would surprise you, then support them. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to declare the year 2022 and 2023 as the Memorial Year of Sándor Petőfi will follow until closure. Presentation submitted by Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; István Simicskó, KDNP; L. Simon László, Fidesz, and Sándor Lezsák, Fidesz, Members H/13655. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The authors indicated that they would share the opening statement within a total of 30 minutes. I give the floor to István Simicskó, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, László Németh said that Petőfi is the greatest light of Hungarian literature. The Parliamentary resolution proposal before us has set itself the goal that this light, represented and marked by Sándor Petőfi's way of life, his work, his activity, should remain, and indeed we want it to be strengthened. A commemorative year is certainly suitable and beneficial for remembering our excellent poet in an appropriate and worthy manner. Moreover, the consciousness of memory that connects the nation is strong. So it is also an important expression in terms of nation building, strengthening identity, an opportunity to feel once again the important feeling of belonging to Hungary, the Hungarian country, the homeland. [[14.10]] Sándor Petőfi's identity, his way of life and his love of freedom connect us in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, Several times in recent years, the Hungarian government felt it was a task to publish commemorative years to strengthen Hungarian identity. You will all remember that here in 2017, the Hungarian Parliament declared Szent László to be a commemorative year in 2017 with a number of programs and events, 2018 Mátyás was a king-remembrance year, in 2019 II. We remembered Prince Ferenc Rákóczi with several programs and events, and this year commemorates Miklós Zrínyi. I trust that as many people as possible could see and participate in these programs, and even more Hungarian young people could be addressed through them here in the Carpathian Basin. On this occasion, the parliamentary decision proposal before us announces the Memorial Year of Sándor Petőfi from 1 September 2022 to 31 August 2023, given that we want to adapt to the 2022-23 academic year, since in 2023 there will be a 200th anniversary of the birth of Sándor Petőfi. This practice was already a common practice, since our predecessors celebrated the 100-year anniversary of Sándor Petőfi in this way, looking back on the centenary period, and remembered the excellent poet about the same period of time, from 31 July 1922, until 31 July 1923. So this was also taken into account by my fellow Members when we wrote the parliamentary resolution proposal before us. Let me give you a few thoughts about Sándor Petőfi, although we are sure that we have all been familiar with many of his beautiful poems in our elementary school years, which is why we have written this presentation, and we know many of his poems from outside today. We may have felt that even though he had a short career, he lived only 26 years, but consider how productive he was, since he had 850 poems left. With a 26-year-old head! An example to follow for all of us. He walked the path of creation, for he was a poet who, as a poet of simple origin, was able to express his revolutionary thoughts in the 48's, filled with enthusiasm and exemplary patriotism in the language of the people. That's how the National Song became one of the leaders of the young men of March. But he not only fought with words for freedom, but also with actions. As a national hero, on 31 July 1849 he also sacrificed his life in the battle of Sighisoara for Hungarian freedom. So he set an example in person. In Petőfi's case, we can see that his cult began immediately at the moment he was made aware of his disappearance. His particular fate, unique career, personal and historical figure, heroic and challenging role, unique moralism, and a very wide horizon of poetic innovation combined formed the foundation upon which the cult of his respect could be built. Ladies and gentlemen, However, he was also the poet who, as a performer of Hungarian romance, displayed in his ranks the love of family, family lyrics, the depiction of marital and marital love. We have also seen the worthy representation of the Hungarian Great Plain in its landscape poetry. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarians can appreciate their literary greats. By our aim, we hope to achieve a series of programmes that will reach the Hungarians living throughout the Carpathian Basin and will respect the most well-known figure of Hungarian poetry. You have to learn to read Petőfi with fresh eyes, to hear with fresh ears, as if we are discovering our own writings. You can't live in Hungarian and live as a Hungarian if you don't know who Sándor Petőfi was. Antal Szerb puts the name of Petőfi in the Hungarian consciousness to be clear with the poet. So if a Hungarian person is thinking of a poet, Petőfi is the first to come to his mind. In the portrait hall of Hungarian literature we can read about it: - For Petőfi is not avul. Not only did he have the most progressive mind and the most modern poetry of his time, but he lived so topically that he made his actuality timeless. His revolutionaryism is still revolutionary. His love blazing is still a flame of love. What he felt as a tragedy has been a tragedy ever since: and what is humor to him has soared to this day. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, May God grant us that in 2022-23 we will be able to bring home as many of our Hungarian compatriots in the world as possible, including in this commemorative year, the programme series of the Petőfi Sándor Memorial Year, just as we did in previous years. Finally, let me conclude by saying that Petőfi is ours, Hungarians, all in all, and yet boundless, because his poetic spirit and his love of freedom touches everyone. His poems were translated into national languages in many, many places, many read, know, love and respect Petőfi. Petőfi is our national treasure, we protect and protect his memory. That is why, with my fellow Members, László L. Simon, Sándor Lezsák and Máté Kocsis, we have tabled the parliamentary resolution proposal before us, and we ask the Government with respect, and we ask our fellow Members, members of all the factions, to support the proposal before us and declare the next period, 2022-23 as a commemorative year of Petőfi. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-17-90	Thank you. I now give the floor to L. Simon László, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the introduction of Mr Simicskó's group leader, and I will only add a few things to what you have said, because I think that we have all received clear and round justifications for why we should have Petőfi's memorial year. At yesterday's Parliamentary Committee on Culture, the initiative was unanimously supported by my opposition fellow Members and fellow members of the Government. So it shows that at last a matter behind which we are all-party, perhaps even not exaggerating, if I say that we can create a national consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, Anniversary commemorations have been very important for the memory policy aspirations of the second, third and even fourth Orbán governments in the last ten years. We can report some really great successes that have moved the whole nation, such as the 500 * Reformation Memorial Year, which, I think, I have to add, has been able to address not only the Reformates, but also the members of the other Christian denominations, to forge together. But I can mention the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, which was a worthy series of commemorations compared to the 50th anniversary of Ferenc Gyurcsány and his Pribes beating and shooting peaceful people on the street. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks.]] In the series of these commemorations, I think it is particularly important to look back at the greats of Hungarian literature as a writer, as a literary writer, and to cherish their memories and values and to pass them on to future generations. Allow me to draw your attention for three memory years. One took place in 2013, on the 150th anniversary of Géza Gárdonyi's birth. Perhaps it was not an example in the three decades since the change of regime to close a commemorative year that resulted in symphony works based on the literary texts of Gárdonyi, drawing inspiration from them. And a lot has happened, because in literary memory years we also pay attention not only to the memory and poetry of writers and poets, but also to the built heritage associated with them. In 2013, we renovated Géza Gárdonyi's birthplace, and organized a completely new exhibition in it. The neighbouring, very beautiful St. Anna's chapel was also renovated; in this chapel Gárdonyi Géza was baptized. And in Eger, within the framework of the same commemorative year's programmes, the very beautiful Géza Gárdonyi Memorial Museum was renovated next to the castle, with Mayor László Habis, our fellow Member and the museum in Eger. [[14.20]] This was a whole year's programme, which we managed to complete at the Academy of Music by presenting the symphony works and handing over the awards. But I could mention, I also think, a successful anniversary of János Arany. János Arany was born in 1817 and in 2017, for the 200th anniversary of his birth, the government also announced a commemorative year addressing the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin with the patronage of President Áder. Here, too, great things have been made, and I think that the youngest ones have also been approached. I've had the honour of having the many decades of János Arany's ballad-telling tournament... I just remembered, the mask can be taken off at a time like this. [[It'll do. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Winner Vinnai: Better late than never!]] Yeah, well, at least it makes it easier for me to talk, I'm sorry. So I had the honour of participating in the Jury of the János Arany Balladay Competition, and we heard wonderful productions in Nagykőrös in the performance of talented students and high school students of the Carpathian Basin. This is a long-standing three-year tournament that has really peaked during the Memorial Year. But as I mentioned earlier about Géza Gárdonyi's preservation and renovation of the built heritage, the Arany János Memorial Year also brought such values and results, since the museum was renewed in Nagyszalontán, János Arany's birth village, the President of the Republic inaugurated that museum, but we successfully renovated it and handed it over together with Mr Rétvári State Secretary On the initiative of Mayor Szabolcs Czira in Nagykőrös, the Arany János museum was completely renovated, since we all know that it was the defining decade of János Arany's life that János Arany taught there. My fellow Earth Member sits here and nods as a representative of Nagykőrös, who has also helped us a lot, sitting up here on the bench as a notary, so he can prove how effective the 2017 Golden János Memorial Year and the ballad-telling competition have been. Of course, fellow Members, let us not forget that these commemorative years also give us the opportunity to entrust representatives of co-arts with work, such as the production of sculptures, which should not be underestimated. During the Gárdonyi Géza Memorial Year, we inaugurated an entire Gárdonyi statue at the birth house, and we inaugurated an entire Gárdonyi statue in one of Eger's areas. During the Golden János Memorial Year, beautiful new works were created, and beautiful statues of János Arany can be seen in Nagykőrös not far from the museum. If I can talk a little bit about this year, which, unfortunately, is overshadowed by this nasty epidemic, but in 1805, I'm sorry, Mihály Vörösmarty was born in 1800, 220 years ago, and every saint's hand is leaning towards him, because for me, as the local patriot of Lake Venice, it is particularly important to care for the memory of Vörösmarty. Together with the Secretary of State Péter Fekete, representing the government here, we managed to create a very serious programme, which resulted in a complete renewal of the Vörösmarty Memorial Museum in Kápolnásnyék, the Petőfi Literature Museum. So there is an example here, and we find an example of saving a monument and a classicistic mansion in a literary memorial year. Or together with the Secretary of State, we managed to create the Csajághy Laura Stage, which is a literary stage and whose name was given after Csajághy Laura, the wife of Mihály Vörösmarty, and, of course, the first show we held on this stage was the Csongor and Fairy of Vörösmarty, and we also erected a statue for his wife. We would like to conclude this commemorative year in December on the birthday of Imre Elek, the outstanding sculptor, on the whole Vörösmarty statue; we are talking about Imre Elek, whom my fellow Members well know, because we owe him the Tisza statue reconstruction, that great statue, and the monument of the Martyrs, as well as Imre Elek. So a very good-handed, excellent sculptor prepares the work that the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Tamás Freund, will inaugurate, which, unfortunately, we cannot do on birthday due to the epidemic, but we will use this opportunity with a slight slippage and spring. So I wanted to tell my fellow Members that a literary commemorative year can be very complex in terms of memory, both literature, literature education, co-arts and heritage protection, and they can provide momentum, inspiration and resources for all of this. For my fellow Members, we do not need to justify this already, my fellow Member Simicskó, what a great figure Sándor Petőfi was. There were some historical periods when political courses wanted to take over for themselves, and to turn him into a political icon, embellishing a piece or a piece of his life's work into a political icon, and in the spirit of ideas and ideologies that, obviously, would have been far removed from Petőfi because of age and Petőfi's love of freedom. We remember the revolutionary youth days, when they tried to turn Petőfi into one of the icons of the communist parade, which took place from 15 March to 21 March to 4 April, and whose soul and poetry as a whole were far from all dictatorial pursuits. As my fellow Member Simicskó said, it is an extremely fertile, large format creator, who should perhaps also be said that he was not only one of the greatest creators of Hungarian literature, but he was able to form a valid one in a number of genres. I would like to highlight the poetry of the narrator; if you would just think, fellow Members, that this miracle of Hungarian literature, the brave John, was written in six days by Petőfi, think about what an achievement this is! But we can also highlight his translations of the work, which are now less well known, for for example, the translation of the drama has since been known in the translations of new authors better adapted to today's state of language, but in any case Petőfi was excellent in French and German, and he also translated them from English. So I must say to you that this is an extremely wide-sighted artist. And, of course, in the world of prose, if you only think about correspondence between Gold and Petőfi, it is one of the most beautiful series or collections of Hungarian literary history. If I may, I quote Gyula Illyés, who writes in his book on Petőfi that the most beautiful male friendship of Hungarian literature begins. Nor has the novel portrayed self - sacrifice, altruism, such as these two men in their writings about one another and about one another. Their letter in world literature is the most perfect creation of two men's affection for each other. He writes about the friendship and correspondence between Gyula Illyés and Petőfi. I also brought all this here, and I also quoted Gyula Illyés because we trust and ask the government's support to make this commemorative year of Petőfi worthy of the success of the 2017 Arany János Memorial Year, which, I think, will also be very important for teaching literature and educating future generations to read culture. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Simicsko's faction leader quoted Antal Serb. Allow me to continue from where he quoted the first sentence from Antal Serb, we heard that the name of Petőfi in the Hungarian consciousness is clear to the poet. He is the poet,, continues Antal Szerb, whose image lives in us the strongest and the truest features, who do not need to be dug out of book-like oblivion, whose values do not need to be revised. Petőfi was the most beautiful proof of the otherwise often denied fact that Hungarians could appreciate his literary greats. Undoubtedly, Petőfi is a decisive turn of events in Hungarian literature, such as the Renewal or the Western Movement. He brought something new that didn't come from his past at all, which was a break with the past and a start from the beginning. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Today, this quote from Antal Serbia is important because for us two things are made clear. On the one hand, the fact that in Petőfi's judgment there is certainly a public agreement, as already in the period of Antal Szerb, so there is no debate between us regardless of which political party we vote for, how we think about the Hungarian literature canon, value, and aesthetics, that Petőfi is one of the greatest figures of Hungarian literature. So there's a public agreement here, and I think that makes him worthy of having a big year of memory on the 200th anniversary of his birth. At the same time, the Szerb Antal quote also shows that Petőfi can be set as an example for the future generation because he was able to carry on the tradition at the same time, but at the same time to completely renew it, so what is the basis of our conservative policy and cultural policy is that it is rooted in tradition, but in fact, it is not alien to new, change and aesthetic progression. [[14.30]] So perhaps one of the best icons of this can be Sándor Petőfi, whose language, thanks to God, is understandable, lovable, acceptable to all of us after 200 years. To conclude, my fellow Members, because more people asked us, after the presentation, why two years. In fact, the justification shows that it is two years because we want to cover a school year. Petőfi was born on 1 January, although literature historians still argue that this happened on the evening of 31 December or at dawn on 1 January, I think it is an incidental question in some respects. But since he was born on 1 January, it would seem strange to start the commemorative year in 23rd and it could end on his birthday; so the middle of the school year is the beginning of the year. So from 1 September to the end of June, we think about planning the commemorative year for a school year, so for children, students, students and college students, remembering Petőfi, born two hundred years ago, can be a year-long series of programs. In the spirit of these thoughts, I would ask my fellow Members and the Government to support our presentation.
u2020-11-17-92	Thank you, Congressman. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to speak for the Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Fekete. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-93	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I say the poems throughout this country, and I pay attention to the audience: they don't know what it means, in the sense that Ady dropped it, as Petőfi burned it, Balassi lived, Gold suffered, Bartók screamed with Kodály, Csontváry and Egry painted it, as Kosztolányi feared, Babits protected it, as Moricz caressed it. They don't know, they don't understand, and they're afraid that if I fire the word at them, as I burn the words of Vörösmarty and Juhász, they're afraid that they don't understand it today. Ladies and Gentlemen, What does it mean to be Hungarian? What does it mean to belong to this country? There are so many ways to approach this question. But this short quote, they will not think, is the words of Zoltán Latinovits, the XX. They come here from the century, and they sum up what it means, how we can draw from our writers, poets and greats. Through the works of the poets listed above, we can get closer to the question of what it means to be Hungarian, to be closer to ourselves, to our Hungarianness, to our Hungarian identity. After all, culture and poetry take a prominent place in this medium as a medium that brings reality closer to reality and deepens the idea, makes the incomprehensible understandable, empathetic with emotions and our beautiful language into blood, flesh, cells, breathed air. Through this language, which we have learned from our mother, even though everything else is getting closer, we share: our love, our sacrifices, the fleeting landscape from the window of the car, our tangible and written love for our country. Sándor Petőfi stands out even from this line, the largest of our greatest poets, not only in Hungary but also in the world. Why? we can ask the question, especially now that his round anniversary is approaching. We all know the answer: his talent created the foundations of the Hungarian lira in many genres, in many voices, in many subjects, in many situations, from the narrative of quite small everyday things in poems to the poetry of world historical situations. It is inevitable both in his language, in his perspective, in his ideality and in his influence. In the last two hundred years, there has not been a Hungarian poet or writer who has not been affected, who has not taken over a solution, a turnaround and a technique, who has not dealt with his form and heroically, tragically short life, with thousands of worlds that are converging. And beyond that, it's not just a matter of writing and poetry, it's a matter of Petőfi to all of us. We all learned and knew from him after decades, not a poem. Everywhere in the world we meet a fellow countryman, after the Word or after the Anthem, there is the National Song, the Tisza, the Plain, the end of September, and my Mother's hen. Most of us know the National song by heart, and we don't need a tablet. [[L. Simon Laszlo laughs.]] If we begin to say his poems, our fellow countrymen, live for generations abroad, they have been separated from their homeland for a long time, they can continue the text. Sándor Petőfi has achieved what very, very few of us have achieved: he has become a part of us, a foundation of our thoughts, a community-creating experience without which we are unimaginable. Poetry, and its shape in many forms, are capable of building a community at any age and at any location; the John Warrior has been a fairy tale from a very small age, as a cartoon, as an act, as well as other works. Petőfi, a author who allows himself, who almost offers the opportunity to use his poems and works, to start out in kindergartens, schools, high schools, drama groups, creative communities, book clubs or children, parents, grandchildren, grandparents. Why? Because with all its heights and depths, its tongue is not maníros, not incomprehensible, but simple, almost ordinary, naturally flowing, and so it is like our native tongue: it becomes ingrained, it becomes our language. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2023 we will celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of Sándor Petőfi, and not only the round anniversary of his form, life history and poems, but also the community-creating power of many commemorations, events, rethinking works of art, scientific conference, educational material, competition, which is the 21st. In the first century, he has made him a fundamental experience, just as he has been one of our defining basic experiences for the past four or five decades. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Minister of Culture of the Ministry of Human Resources not only welcomes the announcement of this commemorative year, but not only welcomes the fact that we are doing this on time, but believes that this series of events can develop into one of the broadest cultural events moving social groups and age groups. Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr László L. Simon, former Secretary of State, mentioned the Memorial Year of János Arany. You probably all have some kind of connection, because so many of your family, your environment, have experienced so many positive elements of this memorial year, who has found their own way to the artist, János Arany, and who will find their own way to Sándor Petőfi for the next one-and-a-half years. At one point, he said that it would be nice not to be an embarrassing Hungarian, and it would be so nice if it were trendy to be Hungarian. I believe that our approach to Petőfi will result in trendy love for Petőfi, it will be trendy to be Hungarian. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-17-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Winner Vinnai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear tableds, Ladies and gentlemen, The 200th anniversary of the birth of Sándor Petőfi gives the Hungarian Parliament the opportunity to declare this period from 1 September 2022 until 31 August 2023 as the Memorial Year of Petőfi. Sándor Petőfi was one of the greatest Hungarian poets, the poet of the Carpathian Basin, whose poetry or at least more important poems should be known to everyone who speaks Hungarian, and in my opinion, Petőfi's poetry and legacy belong to the Hungarian identity. [[14.40]] But I hope that Mr President will not reprimand me as a historian if I refer to the historical role of Petőfi in the 1848-49 Revolution and War of Independence, as he was the starter of the events of 15 March. He was his soul, the poet of the young men of March, the Pilvax Circle, and he was Vasvári, Degre, Jókai, and others at the head of the young men of March in the group of people who made changes. Because they were the ones who did not have land ownership, they were the ones who wanted change, and they were the ones who wanted the development of Hungarian society and the development of the Hungarian economy in their love of progress. We Hungarians need to draw strength from that powerful oeuvre, learn from it, and cultivate our Hungarians. In front of the fate-changing poet of the Hungarians, I think the XXI. Generations living at the beginning of the century must also salute. Ladies and gentlemen, Many mentioned the friendship of János Arany and Sándor Petőfi. János Arany wrote about Petőfi that he was one of the greatest figures of Hungarian and universal world literature. Since 1847 they have been writing letters, they have met in person, and this correspondence, which lasted until Petőfi's death, showed that there was a deep friendship between Gold and Petőfi. They spoke not only about personal friendship, but also about the affairs of the country in general. And Sándor Petőfi deserves to create a large-scale memorial year, as László L. Simon said. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Allow me to highlight three concepts, since Petőfi's love of freedom, patriotism and love of progress are indisputable. He was thinking in a Hungary that is independent, free and provides prosperity to the broad sections of society. With today's expression, he was thinking in civil Hungary. Allow me a short quote, a few lines from my favourite Petőfi poem, The Freedom, to make us all feel within the walls of this House what freedom meant to him. Oh freedom, let us look into your eyes. / We waited so long for you, / through as many nights as haunted, / Our floating soul in the world for you. / We sought you in heaven and earth / One true deity, / You are eternal, the rest are all idols, / Which falls down, standing for a while. I think that this is rather plastic, rather well presented by your love of freedom. Dear House, Since Petőfi's birth and death, seven or eight generations have grown up. You know, we historians say 25 to 30 years to a generation, a lifetime. Although János Arany talked about 50 years during his time, if we look at the cycles and historical questions now, this can be 25-30 years. Seven or eight generations have grown up, Petőfi's name is known to everyone in this country, and school education plays a major role in this. But I must also say that the most well-known Hungarian poet in the world, he was translated into most foreign languages, and the Chinese know his poems. I think that we need to say this in connection with the Memorial Year, and we need to strengthen it, from the poetry, legacy, human strength, and the passionate love of Sándor Petőfi for Hungarianism. This is reflected in his poems. I am a representative of the Tisza Mente, and I belong to the settlements of Tisza, and the poem of the Tisza, written about the most Hungarian river, is still virtually inevitable today. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me conclude by hoping that Petőfi's poetry, which is our national treasure, will all support this proposal, and the opposition will also support it. In the words of the poet, I finish my speech there is no prophecy in Hungarian history that has been so accurately fulfilled, he wrote: "Mother, dreams don't lie; / May the eye cover: / The name of the Glory to your son of poets. Mother, long live forever. Let it be so, and this commemorative year give us a period, national pride, so that we can remember such an predecessor, such Hungarian people, poets and revolutionaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-96	Thank you, Congressman. Just for the sake of historical loyalty, and because he spoke to me, I'm basically a linguist, but I'm also a historian. I now give the floor to Adam Steinmetz, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My colleague, Mr Vinnai, is therefore a mind reader or a prophet's voice that the opposition will also support this proposal. I am really going to ask the Jobbik faction to support this proposal, so I would like to state this in a prerogative. Because Sándor Petőfi is one of the most outstanding figures in Hungarian literature. The Hungarian people's role in the Revolution and War of Independence in 1848 is primarily reflected in its revolutionary poetry. But we had a much, much more versatile poet, because, as already mentioned today, his popular poems, his family poems, his love poems, and his poetry all enriched Hungarian literature. If I may, I would like to list just a few: the National Song, the One thought hurts me, my mother's hen, at the end of September, in the wilderness of winter, or even Tisza is also a masterpiece of Hungarian literature, or the works of Sándor Petőfi, the nearly thousand works that this poet, who died extremely young at the age of 26, left for posterity. Like those who spoke before me, I can fully support this proposal for a resolution and its provisions, that, on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the birth of Sándor Petőfi, and for the purpose of organising worthy commemoration, the National Assembly will declare the year 2022-2023 as the Memorial Year of Sándor Petőfi. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not press the worthy word before the memorial for a reason, because this is very important. I'm sure you know who this year's memorial year is. My fellow Member Simicskó has already told me recently that Miklós Zrínyi has his commemorative year in 2020, who also fought for Hungarian freedom not only by pen but sometimes by sword. He was a poet and general who, by the way, was one of the outstanding figures of Croatian-Hungarian relations, Croatian-Hungarian friendship. And although the coronal virus epidemic this year made it difficult to remember him and to limit the retention of events when we were able to honor him in a worthy manner, I feel that much more could have been done. [[14.50]] I trust that we can really remember the memory of Sándor Petőfi in a dignified way, and not just by us, Members of Parliament, but by a wide range of society. Therefore, in addition to and complementing the proposals set out here, I would like to propose to the Secretary of State and to my fellow Members that the government should also be empowered to produce information on Sándor Petőfi, in addition to the compilation of various events and educational materials, even in the form of quiz questions, that, yes, youth is familiar with Sándor Petőfi's works at school, but young people have been able to keep his memory up to date. One more thing. You will also remember that we had a currency about Sándor Petőfi back in the '80s, a green currency, a 10-forint banknote with his figure on it. I was a very young, small child at the time, and it was a very high value, and since then it has been cancelled with the depreciation of the forint, and it has not gone out of fashion or use. I am asking you, and I urge you, that reading the works of Sándor Petőfi should not go out of practice, his memory should not go out of fashion. Therefore, I would also consider it important that during the commemorative year 2022 and 2023, the state mint modeled the 10 HUF from Petőfi again, because Sándor Petőfi was not only a dominant figure in Hungarian literature, but also in Hungarian history. Therefore, I, the Jobbik faction, will warmly suggest that you support this proposal for a resolution. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-17-98	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to notary László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, notary.
u2020-11-17-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The country is now experiencing a very difficult time, a very difficult time our country is experiencing, and yesterday has proved it, and today there has been a proposal that has shown that we have a lot of disagreements with each other, that we have a lot of disagreements with each other. If I were benevolently approached, I can say that there are a lot of different views on how this crisis should be dealt with. We are therefore in a very complex health, social and economic crisis. There are people in Hungarian history and in Hungarian culture who have not had such debates over the past decades. I think that he has a very uniform view of Sándor Petőfi almost 200 years after his birth, who really created a permanent Hungarian culture with his poetry, and died a martyr's death for Hungarian freedom at a very young age during a freedom struggle and revolution, whose, I think, is also surrounded by full agreement in Hungarian public life today. I'm talking about the 1848-49 revolution and freedom fight. I hope that here, as the 200th anniversary of the death of our great poet, in the years 22 and 23, the declaration of these two years as a commemorative year will reach our country at a time when this country will be beyond these difficulties, these huge problems that divide, and we can indeed remember a poet who, by the way, regardless of the world view, will trigger the respect of all Hungarian people, wherever they live in the world. In front of me, many people remembered Sándor Petőfi with nice words and quotes, so I do not think I will repeat them in that sense. But I am confirming my fellow Member of Vinnai's hypothesis, which at that time may have been that unity can be formed in this Parliament. So what I can tell you is that the MSZP fraction will support the proposal, and I hope that all Members of Parliament will do the same. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This debate is about declaring the year 2022 and 2023 as a commemorative year on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the birth of Sándor Petőfi, and because of this topic and because of this timing, a terrible double situation has developed. The speakers before me praised the work of Sándor Petőfi for a long time, we agree to 100%, even Fidesz and opposition representatives, I think, also with Mr State Secretary, although I think we do not agree on anything else, but we certainly agree on this. I wrote here separately, Mr Simicskó said that our national treasure is Petőfi, or that ours is Petőfi, ours, the Hungarians. It is quite clear that this is the case, and this could be increased for a long time, and my fellow Members have done so. At the same time, I cannot ignore the situation and talk about the fact that, while this proposal came before the House, while we are debating it, there is an epidemic taking its victims in the country, while, unfortunately, hundreds of people die or hundreds of victims a day, the number of active infected is now well over 100,000, with more than 3,000 deaths. So while the epidemic is raging in the country, and the economic effects of this are now being seen, while we are not discussing it here in Parliament, we are not discussing proposals about this, but we are talking about how Petőfi's birthday will be celebrated in two or three years. I think that this is a proposal tabled at the wrong time, with the wrong timing, let me say this, even if the proposal itself and Petőfi's person are absolutely passing through all political trenches, so to speak. In particular, we must state that this proposal is also, as is the case with thirty other proposals, which are being discussed today by the government all week. In fact, it is a replacement act, actually a proposal submitted with bad intentions at a bad time or even in some proposals. This is specifically a supplementary act of panic control that has reached you now. Instead of discussing and discussing substantive, genuine proposals relating to the epidemic and the economic crisis, rather than talking about, say, how mass free testing can be introduced or how to help pensioners and those who are deprived of the current crisis now and immediately, instead we are talking about how the Petőfi Memorial Year will be implemented in two or three years' time. I think that this is a terrible loss of proportion from us, from the Hungarian Parliament, from the submitting Fidesz and KDNP, and from the government, which obviously supports this. I think that this is not a place to be here, and that is not what we should be talking about, dear gentlemen, it is my fellow Members who are fidesz, but how we can help in the event of an epidemic and crisis. Therefore, I say once again, while there is no debate between us in the assessment of Petőfi's identity, L. Simon László said that there is a common understanding about Petőfi's role, I absolutely agree, and this public agreement shows an extremely positive role and phenomenon, but this proposal and the fact that we are discussing it here, I think, is, in some respects, a low point in how Parliament handles the epidemic and how the government manages it. Therefore, regardless of whether DK supports the commemorative year itself, it considers the debate, handling and timing of this to be terribly wrong and wrong. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.00]]
u2020-11-17-102	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am in a bit of a difficult situation because I think I have something to argue with my fellow Member, DK, who has just spoken, although I agree with many things that, of course, all of us now have the most important task of defending, protecting human life, creating the circumstances, giving people the opportunity to do so. It is very important to protect the economy, to protect jobs and to tackle the economic crisis, but I think that there is no way to agree with it, at least personally I do not agree that this is the bottom of Parliament's work. I think we are now seeing legislative proposals before the Parliament, especially on the day of tomorrow, on which we can say that yes, it is a serious mistake, indeed, it is a sin that they are on the agenda, and in such a time of crisis, they are fundamental and have very bad intentions, we can say that they are taking action. But I think that in such difficult times, in times of crisis, we must be able to agree on certain things and not allow our souls to be so killed by this terrible situation for all of us, I think it is a terrible situation. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So we have actually seen over the last few weeks, months, and we will see in the coming weeks that we are having a lot of debates, and we can say that in the vast majority of the debates we are having, we hardly agree on anything, but that is precisely why I think it is important that we sometimes underline what we agree on and which is indeed the subject of a public agreement. I think, as my fellow Members have said, and as all my fellow opposition Members have confirmed, that Petőfi's role and judgement are entirely the subject of a common understanding, and it is gratifying that this proposal is here, we will support it, despite, of course, that we are aware that we are now the number one task. I can also say that we are in a symbolic year, we will mention 2020 thoroughly in every respect, I think. We are in the year of national solidarity, and there have been anniversaries, commemorations that we had an obligation to do, whatever difficult times we live in. I think that this is part of the Hungarians, and it is part of the strengthening and declaration of national consciousness, so that we can remember anniversaries, remember those times that are linked to national tragedies, or to positive developments such as the formation of a post-regime parliament thirty years ago. I think that this is a symbolic and very important proposal, and in this difficult time, too, the Hungarian Parliament must devote energy and time to such matters. The LMP fraction will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. For two minutes, Gábor Bányai asked for a word from a Fidesz representative. You have the floor.
u2020-11-17-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I would just like to add not to the debate, but to the announcement of the Memorial Year, that one of the very important past and I think living figures of Bács-Kiskun County is Sándor Petőfi, because it is connected to the multitude of our settlements. There is even a debate as to where Sándor Petőfi was born, but as a former student in Kiskőrös, I voted alongside Kiskőrös in the past, and I am raising him now. But not continuing the debate, exciting, I would like to say that the General Assembly of Bács-Kiskun has established a memorial committee for the coming years, so that our county can prepare for where Petőfi came into the world and where he spent part of his life, many of his poems are about the Great Plain, where we come from. Therefore, our county assembly has set up a memorial committee, which will have its inaugural meeting just this week. Perhaps even Mr. President was invited to do so. I hope that this will have the effect of raising awareness of our county to the public of the country, as the county of its birth wants to be represented in the country and among Hungarians across the border, remembering Sándor Petőfi. I hope this will have an effect. There's one more thing I want to tell you. In 2009, we wanted to commemorate the anniversary of the death of Sándor Petőfi and at the time we tried to ask for help, because one thought it was an anniversary, a round anniversary, for which we could ask the government for help. There was no reception for this at the time, so I am glad that there is consensus in this, and all the political forces of Hungary want to celebrate Petőfi's birth, and they would like to spend this 200th anniversary in a decent way in the more than one year that is available for this. Good luck with this big, big job and joy together.
u2020-11-17-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Bányai. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to independent Congressman Varga-Damm Andrea. [[Intercoms: He's not here!]] He's not here? Because I can't see, I thought he was sitting there. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: No!]] Then I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2020-11-17-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At this item on the agenda, I did not wish to speak, but I was inspired by the words that have been said here, and I would really like to thank everyone who has spoken. I feel that we have really come to a point on the agenda where all Hungarians must agree. The person of Sándor Petőfi is special to all Hungarians. My fellow Member, Gábor Bányai, said first and proudly that the county of Bács-Kiskun felt that Sándor Petőfi was his own. The good feeling is that I am from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, but I also feel that Sándor Petőfi is my own, and I even envy that he was not born here, but in Bács-Kiskun County. I think that is the case for all Hungarians. All Hungarians, whether on the truncated border from here or beyond the truncated border, feel that Sándor Petőfi belongs to him. You already have a kindergarten teacher. I think that this is a very big thing, this is one of the first, when a child begins to know Hungarian culture, almost all of them Sándor Petőfi is one of the first. I think that everyone who gets out of school can quote the most from him, he's the one who's the one who's most affected us. But why did Sándor Petőfi affect us so much? Because I think that every Hungarian person is talking to his heart, his inner self, his soul, Petőfi. Somehow he found an extraordinary way of speaking to Hungarians. It has a huge impact on the development of Hungarian identity in a child, so that the sense of belonging is formed in people, the consciousness of national cohesion. We also recite Petőfi's poems in Szeklerland, Highlands, Southlands, Transcarpathia and the truncated country, and we will be proud to be Hungarians. Petőfi was proud that he was Hungarian. It was said earlier that it should be trendy that we are Hungarians. Well, Petőfi had it! Anyone who knows Petőfi and grows up on it feels that it is a good thing, and we should be proud of that, that we are Hungarians. What did he give you? He was able to convey wonderfully, if the nation was in pain, he could put it into words, that it hurt all of us, that the pain of all Hungarians was what he expressed somewhere. If you wanted to present joy, the happiness of the nation, the success of the nation, then we can all be happy, it will make us all happy. He could say the same thing about himself, about his own feelings. What were the two most important things? Liberty and patriotism. I believe that he has set an example for all Hungarians in this regard, and that is what is particularly touching us. The fact that Sándor Petőfi came from a small village in Bács-Kiskun county and reached the point that today all Hungarian people are proud that Petőfi was Hungarian and wrote such beautiful poems. patriotism and freedom, while I'm talking about it and everyone's quoting something, I'm talking about freedom, love! I quote his poem, which, too, I think, expresses everything. As Győző Vinnai said, Sándor Petőfi was a poet who could almost see the future, saw his own destiny, his own future. He also saw into the nation's future, and it is also in this verse: "Freedom, love! / I need these two. / For my love I sacrifice / For life, / For freedom I sacrifice / For my love. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The fact that he sacrificed his life, his love and everything for his country is formulated in this poem, the Vátesz poet appears here. That is why we are proud of Sándor Petőfi, and I think that this is an agenda that every faction has a duty to support. [[15.10]] Indeed, it is very important that the future generation, the education of which is in our destiny, is in the hands of the representatives of Parliament, the ministry, what they will learn, it is very important that they receive literary works, verses, proses from which the child's national identity is formed, in order to be proud of his own country, his own nation, his own people. I think Sándor Petőfi set a very serious example for all Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-108	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-11-17-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm yours, I'm yours, my country! / This heart, this soul; / Who do they want to love you / Don't I love you? Says Petőfi at the Honfidal. I am very pleased with this proposal, because if we raise any child only in the poems of Sándor Petőfi, we can only raise wonderful people. It is truly amazing what a rich language, literature, soul, mentality, strength, trust, security, and vision a late countryman who died at such a young age presented in his poems. If this good initiative has already been presented here in Parliament, my fellow Members, then let me talk about what I expect from this double commemorative year or that commemorative name. Then I expect that not only here and now, let us talk about all this and that the Members of Parliament praise this wonderful man with the most beautiful words, but that in these two commemorative years or double commemorative years, each child will meet this value, which this man has transmitted to us, both his fellow countrymen at that time and since then in history, for these two hundred years. Then it should be that, after this commemorative year, many children say Petőfi poems with joy and pride, because such a commemorative year, and especially a double memory year, remembering such a wonderful man, the minimum that we expect results, is that a multitude of children should enjoy speaking or knowing the poem of Sándor Petőfi, and that the spirituality and the gift that each poem gives to man should become one with the personality and thinking of the future generation. But sometimes, fellow Members, it also occurs to me that if Sándor Petőfi lived among us now, who would he write these verses to. [[L. Simon László: Oh, my God! Interview from Fidesz: Demagog!]] For example, to whom would his poems refer when he writes to the Parliament or his poems when he writes about the great powers? Or when you're writing about the arrogance of nobles, or when you're writing about people who lose their souls and emotions, what poem would be about us? Or, for example, would he like that arrogant public life, that rude, very often rude, public life among the highest dignitaries that the man of today must live among us today? We are talking here together about a man who, with his poems, gives us all amazing spiritual food and life-changing food, and the big question is that we are worthy of guarding the value that he left us. Have we learned from the poems he gave us? Because it's not enough to quote, to live in such a way that when he disdainfully writes about a phenomenon, we understand that it was not only in the 1800s that he gave the reason to write those verses. If he were among us today, there's a good chance that many of us would have been reprimanded by his poems to our conduct. I'm talking about a plural in the first person on purpose, because I'm not talking about a politician or a public figure, I'm talking about a political community that the leading elite of our country means. Or if Sándor Petőfi were here with us right now, how would he like this celebrity world, where they go down to such great, well-educated people who really don't like the celebrity world? People's thinking is poor because we do not give them spiritual food. Therefore, with great respect, I ask the representatives of the governing parties and the government in particular to make use of these two years in order to reach as many children, young people as possible and, at least with the means of doing so, to improve the level of culture that can not be regarded as a standard today. Let's not just talk about it, we don't just pin it on our breasts as emblems, that there will be two years of Petőfi's memorial year, but then, when we cut off its balance sheet, what positive things we have created, we can show that we have slightly reversed the poorness of the world and culture with this man's oeuvre, and we can put it in front of the next generation, that this is the spiritual food you will always know what to do in a given situation, you will always know, whether in a moral or spiritual sense, and most importantly, you will be really proud of that you were born Hungarian. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-17-110	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I will give the floor to Fidesz MEP István Bajkai for two minutes.
u2020-11-17-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Although I did not originally intend to comment on this item on today's agenda, I would actually like to express my appreciation for the fact that, in fact, there has been a complete consensus here in Parliament on Petőfi's Memorial Year and Petőfi's personality and oeuvre. When some of my fellow Members also referred to Csaba Gyure, he also spoke noble words to my former fellow soldier Petőfi, and he also said in the horseshoe today what Petőfi would say about today. Obviously, in the context of the commemorative year, we should not really be dealing with matters of policy, I think, as my fellow Member, DK, has done. However, I think, and let my personal opinion say that if Petőfi wrote something now, if he were here with us, I hope that there is also agreement in the case of some of my fellow Members on the other side, on the opposite side, then he would indeed be concerned about the survival of his country and would be concerned about the preservation of our culture. If I wanted to quote something, or if I wanted to project something from his life's work to the present day, all that he thought was important, the country, the nation, the family, the national survival, then he used this term to the nation, almost a caller's way, in fact, we could all be kind enough to bring it to his attention. What did you say? How could he use that phrase? I'm not a good enough poet, although I once said a poem, but somewhere I have to say, his quote, his words are playing in front of me, or I feel his true message when it comes to today. How did you put it in your last verse? There's no need to tell me the whole thing. I'm going to run to the tower,/I'm going to ring that alarm bell! Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-17-112	Thank you very much, Congressman Bajkai. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr L. Simon László, who is sitting here on behalf of the authors, if he would like to make a comment and final debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-17-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am pleased that Mr President has taken the lead at the end of this debate, so we can thank him, too, because President Lezsák is the originator of this presentation to the House, and that together, we prepared it, was the result of his inspiration. [[15.20]] On the other hand, I would like to say that, in addition to everything that has been said here in the national expos, I think that there has been a valuable debate. I would like to thank Mr State Secretary and the Government in particular for their support and for the positive contributions of all my fellow members in favour of government and opposition. I am a little sad that the Democratic Coalition, Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, has taken advantage of this opportunity to talk about the epidemic situation and not to understand that there are moments in man's life and in his political work that need to be dealt with in a more elevated way. And the fact that the government is responsible for the current health situation can be separated from the fact that life does not stop from all of this, and we must prepare and pay attention to such anniversaries, such as those we have before us in connection with the 200th birthday. This proposal had to be submitted now to make a commemorative year truly worthy; not to rush at the last minute; to have sufficient resources; to give birth along the inspirations of the initiators to the programme points that would really take the attention of the whole country for a year, and even the whole nation, to this outstanding figure of Hungarian poetry. So that's why we have to put it on the table now, it has nothing to do with any kind of a diversionary operation involving an epidemic, and I definitely have to reject that, and I'm sad that we can't spare an active political overtones on a case like this. So I thank my fellow Members for their support. I hope that, after 1 January 2023, we will be able to enjoy a valuable commemorative year together, and that this initiative has not been in vain. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the governing parties and the Jobbik benches.]]
u2020-11-17-114	Thank you very much, Congressman L. Simon László. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to declare King's Hill of Crabs as a national memorial will follow until closure. Government referral T/13658. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2020-11-17-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the Middle Ages, Király Hill played as much an important role in the life of the Hungarian state as the building of the Parliament in Kossuth Lajos Square, where we are. The preservation of a site of high importance for the nation's past, the care of memories, therefore, is expressly justified, and we can do so most effectively by recognising the National Assembly as a national memorial place. That is what we would propose in this bill. The government is committed to the fact that the survival of historical values is important for posterity. This was also the purpose of the legislative amendment, which made the regulation of memorial sites transparent in 2011 and which allows the legislator to classify them in the following three categories. In the historical memorial category there are 52 sites; in the national memorial category 19 pieces are numbered by the regulation, and as a third category the legislator designated the highlighted national memorial site. At present, there is only one such location known to the law, the Parliament and its surroundings. Of these three categories, the national memorial sites are sites of major importance in the history of the Hungarian nation, which, due to their identity-forming nature, are of paramount importance in the nation's self-image and can be the scenes of state commemoration of national importance. Under the rules, the Parliament can declare a place by law as a national memorial. This title is earned by locations that provide an opportunity for visitors to experience the life-changing events, tragedies and glorious moments of Hungarian history. The protection and accessibility of national memorial sites is a public interest in which public and municipal bodies, religious communities, ecclesiastical persons, civil and other organisations and natural persons contribute. The protection covers the preservation of the dignity of the national memorial place, the guarantee of the conditions of worthy commemoration, the historically authentic, uniform image of the memorial place, and, if this is the case, the maintenance and provision of its historic appearance, as well as the promotion of development and investment for these purposes. In addition to the survival of history and memory, these national memorial sites, such as the national and state celebrations of Hungary and the national memorial, may serve additional purposes during the national commemoration, during the event defined by the state leaders or the owner of the national memorial place, for the purpose of tourism during the visit of tourists seeking a national memorial place, and may be used for a common purpose, in addition to those listed above. Underlining the fact that the Király Hill of Cancer is a crucial place in our history, allow me to recall with some thought the events related to this site. First of all, the Rákosmező, the traditional site of the Hungarian Parliaments of the Medieval Age, was of particular importance in the history of constitutional parliamentarianism in Hungary; a documented total of 35 parliamentary meetings were held on the Király Hill. The field of Cancer is XIII. From the second half of the 20th century onwards, it served as a place for national meetings, primarily for king's election, to rise to war, so the territory was, in political terms, an undisputed centre of the country. Although the sources mention the assembly of Bács, Buda, Esztergom, Hatvan, Szeged, Tolna, the most national meetings were held in Rákosmező, for example, in the pre-1526 practice. László Kun in 1277. The role of Rákos' field in the constitutional and parliamentary development of Hungary was played by the XV. At the end of the century, the cancer diet became the permanent parliamentary assembly where decisions of national significance were made with the personal presence of the common nobility. As far as I know, the last National Assembly in Rákosmező was held in 1540, at the time of Hungary's break-up in three parts, and after that, the Király Hill was no longer the site of the Hungarian diets. However, in the memory of later centuries, the Rákos field and the Király Hill became a symbol of Hungarian national sovereignty and popular representation. Decently marking the location of the old Hungarian Parliaments is already the 19th. In the first half of the century, during the Reform Age, János Boráros, a former chief judge of the city of Pest, came forward. The case of the memorial planned for the Rákosmező is followed by the case of XX. It appeared several times in the first century, but the proper designation of the memorial was not possible during socialism. At the moment, the location of these life-changing deliberations in Hungarian history, the Király Hill, is at risk of collective oblivion. What was once referred to as King's Hill is now located in the X. district of the capital in an area bordered by Nagyicce Street, Pilisi Street and Dorogi Street. The western side of the geographical rise is now integrated with residential houses, but the eastern part of the hill is still a freely accessible area, so it can fulfil the function of the national memorial place. National integration is of paramount importance to us, and therefore the preservation of the national past and of the relevant priority sites, and the recitation of it in the memory of the Hungarian people, are also key. In view of what has been said, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the declaration of King's Hill of Cancer as a national memorial. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-11-17-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-17-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is something fateful about the fact that in the year of national integration, or 2020 we will be faced with this bill, which would make it a national memorial place or, as I hope, declare the King's Hill of Cancer. [[15.30]] Yes, because he played an extremely important role in the history of Hungarians. As the Secretary of State said, there were 35 parliamentary meetings documented here, but it is not the number that matters, but the order, constitutionality, the spirituality that appeared in the Arpad era, is it not, IV. László Kun has the XIII. In the century. But most of all, it's the 14th. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In the first century, until the Turkish occupation, that the common nobility could appear here in person, and that was where Robert Károly was elected in 1308, after whom unprecedented economic development, strong central power, internal order, and external conquest followed, as more seas washed the shores of the country during his reign and the reign of his son, Lajos Nagy. So the pride that meant what the Hungarian Empire meant at the time in Central Europe, but in Europe at all. And even more so in the time of Matthias, since we heard from the Secretary of State that Matthias was elected here in 1458, and we all remember from the history books at least the sentences that show that he was the most prosperous country in Europe, and how much Matthias sacrificed to culture, brought the Renaissance culture into this country. And there's the cancer warrant in 1505 when the order said that no king can be brought from a foreign rulership. This was in fact their interests, too, well, that's how the orderal monarchy worked, the interests of the order appeared. But I have to say, up until the Turkish occupation, the renditions protected the country, and the constitutionalism, medieval constitutionalism, were important scenes. Dear House, Allow me to refer to another aspect, which shows that it is declared a national monument. Allow me here, though Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that 19 is correct, right? , there are 19 national monuments: among others the surroundings of the Parliament, the Castle District, the building of the Hungarian National Museum and the Museum Garden, the Heroes' Square. But let's not just say people from Budapest, I would also like to mention some rural ones: in Debrecen the Reformed Great Church and College; in Mohács National Memorial, the great trauma of our existence Mohács, as we say; or in Ópusztaszer National Historical Memorial Park, where our originality appears; in Eger Castle, Dobó's oath is remembered among the walls of this House, that the castle will not give up, there is no money to give up. And let me mention it, as a representative of Nyíregyháza and its surroundings, as a representative of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County: the National Chalice of Máriapócs is also included among the national memorial sites with the number 19. On the other hand, I have mentioned that I would like to say one more thought to you, and this is who initiated it and how the government reacted to it. A civil society organisation has launched this initiative, the Hungarian Patriot Community, to appreciate our national memorial sites, and it has not just begun, we have heard from the Secretary of State that the 19th edition of the 19th Anniversary of the Hungarian Patriot Council has been launched. In the first half of the century, there was an initiative: János Boráros, then Chief Judge of Pest, initiated it and failed. Then the XX. It appeared several times in the century, but it was prevented by socialism. There, it was not the national memory, the past that was important, but the future that led nowhere, about which, in 1989, we know that history ruled the sentence to be so subtle. So it's XX. It was not customary, especially in the second half of the century, especially between 1949 and 1989, to remember our glorious past, especially not the order and the Middle Ages and kings. Imagine, allow me to tell you in parentheses that I was born in Királytelek, which became Nyírtelek, because in 1950 Rákosi said that there could be such a settlement in Hungary! It was 1950, didn't it, Secretary General Rákosi and Prime Minister Rákosi in one person, in 49 the revolution came, Stalini Constitution, we know it from history, and he says that the King's name must be taken away! Well, that's what they were. Such was the dictatorship of socialism, and it became Nyírttelek from 1950, because until 1950 he belonged to Nyíregyháza under the name of Királytelekpuszta, and there were bush farms; I think Vice-President knows what kind of bush farms there are even today, and they can even be considered as Hungaricum. Returning, closing parentheses, they were initiatives, but they failed, even though the King's Hill, the Crab Hill, became a symbol of national sovereignty and popular representation. I think, and I hope, that the representatives of the opposition parties see this as a real national matter, so that this important site of our history is put in the right place, and they will support this proposal. The Hungarian Patriot Community has contacted the President of the Parliament, the Government, the Municipality of Kőbánya, as we have heard about the streets bordering the X. district, the Municipality of Kőbánya belongs to this area, and this cooperation, and the government's reaction to this initiative so quickly and submitting this bill to the House, shows that we can support civil initiatives from the bottom, or rather from the bottom. Ladies and gentlemen, Without this proposal, the location of the life-changing deliberations would have been threatened or threatened by collective oblivion and installation. We cannot treat our historical heritage this way, so I welcome this presentation, I am pleased that a civil society organisation has proposed it, I am glad that they have joined forces on this subject, and the government has supported the fact that Zsolt Semjén and Gergely Gulyás, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, have come before the House in their presentation. The Fidesz faction supports the bill, I believe that KDNP is also likely, although here the lead speaker will be speaking now, and I hope that the other factions will also take that position. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-17-118	Thank you very much, Congressman Vinnai. I now give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-17-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The proposal before us would amend our current law on the protection of cultural heritage to ensure that the Royal Hill of Crabs is also protected by national memorial sites. As the law says, the national memorial site is a site of decisive importance in the history of the nation. Well, if anything, then the Crab Hill is really like this, because, as we have already heard, it has served as a place for parliament for centuries, even as a place for king's election, the decisions concerning the country have been made here. It is therefore necessary that this really be the place of a worthy memorial in the future. This protection covers the preservation of the dignity of the national memorial site and the promotion of development and investment for these purposes, as the law says; and the Minister also, under the law, concludes a grant agreement to facilitate the sustainable use of the national memorial site. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what specific developments and investments they wish to make in order to preserve the dignity of the memorial place, in addition to the provisions laid down by law, what will be included in this grant agreement. I would like to thank you very much if you would respond to this, since it has not been said so far, but this property is currently owned by the X. district of the capital of Budapest, the municipality of the stone mine, and although the management of the municipality supports the protection of this area and its declaration as a national memorial place, we would like to know what the Ministry, the Minister, has in mind about development and investment. [[15.40]] Turning to the general explanatory statement, Mr Vinnai referred to it as my fellow Member of Parliament, and, in support of the regulation, the declaration of a national memorial, he pointed out from the general explanatory memorandum that this area is at risk of integration. According to my information, the property owner of the area, the municipality of District X, has no such intention. I don't know if you guys have any conflicting information, because that's what you'd be kind enough to share. And speaking of general explanations, and I now ask you with great respect, Mr Secretary of State, to pay attention to what I am saying, you have also read out the classification of our cultural heritage. We see three classifications in the annex to the law. There is a special classification of the highlighted national memorial site in the plural, because one of these is present at the moment, the Parliament and its immediate surroundings, as well as the national memorial sites, the current 19 and the Rákosmező Király Hill, we hope to see 20 national memorial sites listed here by the law. It does not list this separately for a reason and it lists this in a distinctive way, since other requirements apply to national memorial sites and to the highlighted national memorial site. In contrast to the title and purpose of the legislation as a national memorial place of the Király Hill of Crabs, we can see in the general explanation and now quote, Mr Secretary of State, this property should be suitable for fulfilling the function of the highlighted national memorial place, and it is timely to declare the Király Hill a prominent national memorial place. I understand that in the Hungarian language, the, highlighted, is an increasing indicator, and we are trying to confirm how important this goal is, how important it is, but the terminology used in the general explanation is extremely misleading and contradictory. Allow me to say that it is not the lawyer or opposition politician who is speaking first of all, but the Member of Parliament who is reading the legislation and constructively preparing for this debate. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, to ensure consistency between the title and the purpose of the law and those of the general statement of reasons, because there is a contradiction here, and I believe that this may be a cause for misunderstanding. Finally, I think that the Crab Hill is indeed worthy of this protection; it is worthy that the Heroes' Square, the castle of Szigetvár, the castle of Eger or the ruins of the Benedictine Abbey of Somogyvár will also receive this immunity, the declaration of national monument. I will therefore propose to the Jobbik fraction to support this bill. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-17-120	Thank you, Congressman Adam Steinmetz. I now give the floor to Mr László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-17-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, * Respect the past so that you can understand the present and work on the future. István Széchenyi, the largest Hungarian, said so, and I think that we can all join this. It is our mission, our mission here in the Parliament, and perhaps also in everyday life, to establish a culture of respect in the country and in the life of the nation and in everyday life, I think that this is what we are obliged to do. The culture of respect means the survival and the future of a community, a society, the Hungarian nation, as well as the national future. For KDNP, fundamental value is the history of the nation, the history of the nation and the culture of the nation. Therefore, with this respect, we must turn to our history, our national culture, our values and our traditions. Of course, the culture of respect is not just a beautiful idea, it is not just a beautiful word, it is not a nice speech, it is an act. Allow me, fellow Members, to put it this way that the submission of a law, the discussion of a law and the adoption of a law can mean action and action. Lawmaking is also an act, because it is our job, it is our calling, I could say in a big word: this is our mission, so now we can do, we can act in order to remember this respect that I have told you about. Action to protect national culture, our national heritage and our values, which we are part of, we can be part of. Allow me to say a few words about the substance of the bill, although the people before me have obviously done so in a very specific way. I would like it in the above context, or we should put in place the bill before us on what historical facts support this bill. As the speakers before me have mentioned, it is the location of national assemblies, parliamentary meetings, royal elections, and, as I recall very clearly, a figure of speech formulated in 1789 that the middle of the country, therefore a symbolic place, became a symbolic location of the Crab Hill. Symbolic location today, the XXI. For this reason, it is appropriate and worthy that the National Assembly declare this place a national memorial, where, as I said, parliamentary meetings took place, king elections took place in several cases, in a symbolic sense which has become the middle of the country, and we know that this site has become a decisive place in the history of the Hungarian constitution and parliamentarianism, which has been heard for several centuries. The reason why this proposal, the bill, is important is because, as many have mentioned, the initiative has been made to make this site an important symbolic location. These attempts, these initiatives failed or died or could not have been implemented for various reasons. I think that this is the historic moment, as we say, here is the cairos, the grace period, when there is time, there is the possibility, perhaps there is consensus, national agreement, national consensus, national agreement, that this venue will finally be declared as a national memorial place, in the Annex to the Act, after the 19th place, as the 20th place. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to remind you that our law, which is still in force today, gives the State responsibility and responsibility for making this national memorial place a truly worthy national memorial place, because it is the duty of the State, and I quote that it is the responsibility of the State to provide funds from the central budget in order to make this truly a worthy national memorial place. I think that, given the history, this will be an uplifting task for the Orbán government, since there are already precedents for the government's work in this area. [[15.50]] We could also say, perhaps a little daringly, that the last ten years can be measured by the economic and cultural development of the decades following the reconciliation, as the speakers before me have already mentioned many cultural investments and developments. I think that it would be possible to list for long minutes or perhaps hours that, in the last ten years alone, what cultural developments have been made in terms of national memorial sites, historical memorial sites, even here in Budapest, but we could mention and mention rural development, rural reconstructions and rural renovations. But I think that the government could do this because a strong economy has been created over the last few years, we have been able to create a strong state, because only a strong economy and a strong state can restore their own historical monuments, their own national memorials and, in a broader sense, their own cultural heritage, and restore them to the service of the public, to the service of the nation. I therefore think, ladies and gentlemen, that the memory policy of the Orbán government is an existing policy, a real policy, an effective and coherent policy, which is not only formulated in words, but also in actions, actions and the provision of concrete central budgetary resources. Finally, I quote our King St. Stephen, who doesn't appreciate his past, doesn't deserve his future. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the spirit of these ideas, I would like to point out that the KDNP parliamentary group naturally supports the proposal, and we are asking our fellow Members and the other groups to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-122	Thank you very much, Congressman László Szászfalvi. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-11-17-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have just said, on the occasion of the Petőfi Memorial Year, that there is a proposal on the agenda today that will not be subject to much debate or disagreement. This is also, in my view, even if we disagree on the issues of what is the current case, or what other issues the Parliament should discuss. Indeed, there is much debate in Parliament today, but there will be no consensus on this. Obviously, the specific proposal here is to amend the Annex to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and to add the declaration of the Royal Hill of Cancer to a national memorial. It can be said in this area that László Kun, Róbert Károly and Mátyás Hunyadi have been crowned here, and there have been several medieval Parliaments in this area, so the proposal is certainly justified and, in fact, it is regrettable that the past of this area has almost been forgotten in this sense in everyday life. So I think that the initiative and the suggestion of the local patriots and the local body should be supported, and so will our faction. And I propose clarification of the ones raised by Adam Steinmetz. I think that the intention of the legislator, probably the national memorial here, is to... highlighting some of what the legislator might mean here: the Heroes' Square, the Castle District, the Pannonhalm Benedictine Abbey, the Nagycenk Széchenyi Castle, the Reformed Great Church in Debrecen, the National Historical Memorial Park in Ópusztaszer or the Eger Castle, which is such a national memorial. It is a prominent national memorial, which is in one place here in the explanatory memorandum, as I understand it, there is one, Parliament and its neighbourhood. This may be a technical issue in this sense, but it obviously needs clarification. At the same time, I can assure the Secretary of State and the Honourable Parliament that our group will support the presentation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-124	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varga. I now give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-17-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, as a fifth or sixth speaker in this debate, I think I can learn the lesson, as in the previous debate, that in this case, in the previous debate, there is now a bill on the subject of this proposal, a proposal for a decision, namely that we highlight the field of Rákos and declare it a memorial place, there is consensus. I don't think anyone's arguing, one speaker after another is talking to him, or he's saying new and new things that just confirm that. I don't want to do this anymore, because I've been told practically everything. I was genuinely surprised that this was not yet on this list, and it did not fit into the nineteen, while it was indeed a fundamental, important historic memorial. Therefore, the proposal itself is absolutely appropriate, in order to make good content. At the same time, those who were here in the previous debate will not be surprised, and I will indicate exactly the same argument and the same problem here as in the previous debate. I absolutely do not think that when there is an epidemic, when there are hundreds of thousands of people infected, when hundreds of thousands of people are losing their jobs, and I can list the dramatic figures, not even an evaluation, then Parliament is not dealing with their affairs, not their salvation, not their way of solving their lives, and we are not discussing such suggestions, but we are talking about whether we are now declaring the Crab Hill a memorial place. I think this is a loss of proportion, and I think this is a bad time, as I said in the previous debate. There's a thousand and a topic and a case that could be brought up, which is more important. This case is not among the 100 most important topics in this country, but it may not be in the thousand, so while, I say, the content proposal at a normal time, I think it would go through Parliament without any big debate, and in every part of the horseshoe would receive support in this extraordinary situation, at the beginning and mid-term of the biggest economic crisis in the last thirty years, to talk about it here and now is not appropriate, a mistake. I therefore want to tell the honourable members of the Government and the government that this is the main problem with this proposal, as, by the way, so many proposals this week that we are discussing here in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-126	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. I now give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group.
u2020-11-17-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At this point on the agenda, I referred a little back to the thoughts of my fellow Member in DK. I think that, yes, there is a long list of legislative proposals and motions that should not be in front of Parliament right now, but I think that this is where it should be. One of the previous speakers mentioned that the Community of Patriots formulated this problem this year, in the spring of this year, specifically, even the title on their website, that could be incorporated into the Crab Hill. So here you have called for a problem on which there is work to be done. So if we want to save this national memorial, and I took it out from those who spoke before me with a complete consensus, there is unity, that we want to save this memorial from complete integration, then we have to act, so I think it is timely to talk about it in this respect. It is obvious, and I do not think it is necessary to say what are the most important challenges and things to do for Hungary today, and otherwise throughout Europe, and indeed globally. However, the speakers before me have explained in quite detail what the historical significance of this area is, and I am pleased that there is consensus that this step must be taken. The case is not unknown to me at all, I myself saw the initiative on the website of the Patriot Community, and immediately called the Patriot Community, and at that time the head of this association, the NGO, indicated that I was the first Member of Parliament to contact him. [[16.00]] I felt the importance of this case, too, and I began to gather information about it at that time. I would like to use this speech to gather information and raise points, and I very much hope that the Secretary of State will hear my words, because I would like to ask questions on this issue in an absolutely constructive way, and perhaps make proposals. We talked about this a few weeks ago. In particular, I agree with my fellow Members that legislation is an opportunity in itself, and it is an important task to take such a step to classify or classify this historic site as a national memorial place. At the same time, I hope that this is a question for me, because I think it is a very important issue. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I'm listening!]] Great, I'm happy for you. I'm honored, Mr. Secretary. My question is whether this proposal meets the common goal that we have set, and I would like to ask you this. If we look at the position that this area is now in, it is included in the proposal, the Patriot Community has also described that practically half of it has been installed, and the installation has reached half the highest point, where the king's tent once stood or the tents of kings stood. At the same time, we are talking about a very large, currently unbuilt area that belongs to this historic site. This proposal specifically mentions a landmark number, a property number 42717, if I took it right out of the proposal, an area owned by the Municipality of Kőbánya, which is a tiny part of this historic site. My question is this, and this is for all the speakers before me: it is obviously an important task for us to do this, but to what should this proposal apply? The reason why I have not yet presented this proposal to the Parliament is because I wanted to explore it carefully, and I think that professionals, historians, have a role in this, in order to determine exactly how much of the area that is now unbuilt can be regarded as the location of former historical Parliaments. And I think that our task is not only to save a small portion of this area, but to save as much as possible, which is not yet undercover, which can be saved. And I miss that, and I would like to ask questions about that, and I would ask Mr Secretary of State that before we conclude this debate, you really should try to give me information on this. I have continued several rounds of phone calls, research work, to find out, and to be able to get into a situation where it is really appropriate to prepare this proposal, and on a professional, historical basis, to identify the area to be protected, which is the area to be classified entirely as a national memorial place. If you have looked at this area, my fellow Members, what it looks like now, we can read in the presentation that the area defined by the X. district Nagyicce út-Pilisi út-Dorogi street is the former Rákosmező Királyfield, Királymomb, and that this is practically now, according to the current regulations, an area intended for installation. If you look at the current regulation, there are street orders in the regulation that are assigned to the construction site, this area is designed under construction, and this proposal will not, in fact, save you from the installation of the former historical Parliaments. My truly constructive question is that my fellow Members agree that our task is to do this, not to save a small part of the once and now salvageable territory. If you look at the current regulation of this area, so the construction regulation of this area, I found a 2012 regulatory plan sheet that already deals with this issue and plans to create a memorial park, a park of ornaments for the former site. But it's just another 8,000 square meters, compared to the former crime scene, it's a small, narrow area. So these are my specific questions about what preparatory work the government has done, what consultation it has conducted with the municipality. My information, by the way, was that it was just a very, very superficial consultation. Not long ago, the municipality gave its consent in principle to this decision at a board meeting, but I do not see in the submission the justification of the area to be saved and rescued, and if we really look at the entire area of the site of the former Parliaments, what the ownership conditions are, what the possibilities are, what this proposal can cover, and what the government needs to do in order to really save this area from the installation. And I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what legal protection, what legal situation will arise, what guarantees, what legal guarantees will be provided to ensure that this area can indeed be maintained as a national memorial. And I am asking not only Mr Secretary of State, but indeed my fellow Members who have spoken positively and very constructively and rightly on this issue, what is their opinion on this issue, their duty is not to defend this entire site, and it would not be justified to support this proposal, or, to say, to confirm it with much more detailed research work and preparatory work, so that we can indeed achieve the goal with which we fully agree that this extremely important historic site, the place of former Parliaments, where royal armies have gathered, should be declared a national memorial place in its entirety, and should not be allowed, under the current rules, to be incorporated in such a way that only a tiny small memorial park remains free. I think that we have given up, and I do not see that this proposal is aimed at this. I must tell you frankly that this is why I have not yet submitted this proposal to the Parliament, because I have not come to the possession of the information myself, so that I can make a proposal that is really important, we can say, to perform and implement an important task on an historic scale. I have great confidence in Mr Secretary of State in his positive response and that he can respond to this in substance, because you can believe it, Mr Secretary of State, and perhaps you can see that the maximum constructivity is speaking from me. I would like the King's Hill, this historic site, to be truly saved from installation. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see a two-minute application. I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio in a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-11-17-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Dialogue considers the proposal eligible. I hope that we will have a reassuring response to the questions and suggestions raised by my fellow opposition Members, and then we will also vote in plenary. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-130	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-11-17-131	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will be a tiny bit of a spoiler because we are not living the first cycle of the first freely elected Parliament, but we have been formed for 30 years after the Socialist system, and the current government spends its fourteenth year in this thirty-year cycle, and for the first four years, those in the same political circle have led the country in terms of ideological foundations. I will be a spoiler because we all met very soon in our historical studies with the historical significance of the field of Rákos, and we met very soon, because we have been talking about the election of kings in this area since the 1200s; that is, there are not any people in this House, and there have not been any Members of Parliament in this House in the last 30 years who have not learned about this since childhood. Half the House has even applied for admissions from history at university, so I think that this initiative is incredibly late. And why, by the way, would it take a Patriot Association to write to the President of the Parliament that the unbuilt area will be built slowly, because that is the most shocking, because I opened the ownership sheet of this unbuilt area, which means that it can be built in. When we see quality on the ownership sheet, we know exactly what the definition of cultivation means. And then I'll be a bit of a buzzkill to tell you the story of this property; unfortunately, on the current property page we only get the status that we can see from 1990, but the fact is that three months before the parliamentary election of the regime change, two gentlemen will get a very large share of this property in private property, so there is no new system yet, we are still living in the last months of the old system, how specific it is, right, and in 91, a couple of brothers will get the rest of the property. Besides, we're talking about an area of 8852 square meters, so we're talking about almost an acre. And what happens? Then the first four owners will be another owner in 2000 and 2015. [[16.10]] I think that if the last-to-last owner does not accumulate tens of millions of HUF in debt and two organizations do not have the right to implement this property, the owner is unlikely to be in such a financial position that he is forced to sell this share of property. Only in order not to desecrate this area, fortunately there will not be an auction, but surely, as I see it, the last owner of the X. district municipality, and from 2016 probably the management of the municipality and the board, recognizing that in moments some scoundrels will be able to obtain this area at auction, we will try to get it from the owners quickly. I suppose it was not difficult for one of them to have a right to implement in the field of greater value than the value of the territory itself, and the other, I think, to see that there is a way for both the municipality and the state to impose changes or a ban on changes in this area that could quasi-depreciate this property. So it's good to mention this, too, about the fate of this property. Because the fate of this property is at least 26 years of shame. Because we didn't expect anything from the socialists, but when the new Parliament was formed, then I was a grown man, and national consciousness was raging, and practically everything became national, and the knight orders came, and half the political elite became knights, and they lived like cattle in medieval mister relations since 1990. So it would have been enough for this area, which is incredibly important to Hungarian history, not to be played out by private people, and for example, as a result of the fair, victim-oriented activities of the X. district mayor, after 26 years, the territory should be reclaimed as municipal property and not be the sad fate of this area. I have to tell you, after a very long time unbuilt area of cultivation, the miracle is that it has not been built in. In fact, these owners could have built this area a long time ago, and we're lucky they probably didn't have the money. So I would like to say to both my Fidesz, KDNP fellow Members and the Secretary of State that the fate of this area was accompanied by luck, somehow the hand of the caretaker of God was there that they did not become the owners of the regime who had enough financial means to infiltrate it, because if they did, we would not be able to talk about it today. Of course, we cannot turn back the wheel of history, nor the 30 years of history, but we can always learn the lessons, and I ask with great respect, Mr. State Secretary, and through him, the Prime Minister, to look at very quickly in our history, the areas that we can preserve for future generations, because we must show them, if we are talking about continuity of law in words all the time and about the amazing miracle of historical Hungary, which is the preservation of Hungarians, the preservation of our national language and the preservation of our culture, we will preserve these monuments for the future, so that we can keep them for future generations. Let's get started on this very quickly, not by a patriot society to speak to any other association, there are so many such committees and prisons who deal with all sorts of historical things, but I can see that they have very little success. Let them begin, and from Zahony to Noblebear they will uncover all areas that may have historical significance that we must preserve so that they can only erect structures that are about remembering. A few of my fellow Members asked whether the Parliament would now grant a legal status in this area. As a result, the agricultural portfolio will also have to do so, because it will now have to reclassify the area in its appropriate way, as it will not be possible to do so on its own. I would like to know that in this vast area, because it is not a small area, what kind of structure will be built that represents the historical significance of this place. I really don't want to see these jamboring areas on your nose and on your mouth. So I would like it to be important for any artifact to be built in the future, so that it can be visited in such a way that all that is of historical significance will not become an abandoned drug gathering place, because there are a lot of such places in the country because they do not visit it because they neglect it. So if you're going to do something about it, there's got to be an attraction where people go, people keep going, if not otherwise, and then the schools have to arrange a visit, because it doesn't have to be that we create this memorial place with this law, and then for some reason, there's either money or no attention, and it's left in a neglected state, in the name of God, and it's a memorial, and it's just the nature of it, it looks, it's not really worthy of it. 'Cause we meet a lot of them in the country. That's something to remember. So I am very pleased that we can talk about this issue at all. It is my great pleasure that everyone in this House will vote for this, but with great respect I ask that if in the last 30 years, or rather 26 years, the municipality has been able to obtain this and is not built into it, but the 26-year failure should not result in them not being able to do anything about it afterwards. Be kind enough to set up a proper memorial space for this as soon as possible, put it in the budget, and regulate its use in the future very carefully, so that there will be enough attention and visitation while the world is around, because this is practically one of our very important tasks. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy, Fidesz.
u2020-11-17-133	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian People! Remember, at some point before us, Hungarian people lived. They lived, acted, and worked for us. They shed their blood, their tears, and their sweat to give us our home, our country, our family, our future, our soul. Hungarian people, don't forget the Hungarian people who used to be in the past! *I think that the bill before us, the declaration of the Király Hill of Cancer, is a historic monument, that's exactly what it is about. We must not forget that from 1277 to 1450 Hungarians have made very important laws, which have decisively influenced our nation's life. Here they chose kings, and even György Dózsa left this field with his armies. Some 480 years ago, the last parliamentary assembly was held in the field of Rákos, and we have certainly forgotten about this historic place in the last 30 years. I am pleased that the Hungarian Patriot Community, which honors me to be their member and to work with them, has not forgotten this place and all the other historical events that it is constantly dealing with. I am pleased to welcome Mr Hetzmann, President of the Patriot Community, and Mr Gábor Kontos, who dealt with this law in the Chamber, to the walls of this House, of course they cannot come in because of the virus, but they follow the meeting from the salon, because we would not have come here today without their work. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, to the Hungarian Government, for continuing the work that we Hungarian Patriots have started. And that in practically a few months we have come from our prepared video, from our compiled material, that we can discuss this important national memorial in Parliament today, and I trust that we will soon not only discuss, vote and accept that it will be a national memorial, but also a national monument that will remember our ancestors and remember the important historical moments that have taken place there. [[16.20]] Of course, we Hungarian patriots do not only deal with this one location, we deal with countless historical events that are important in the life of Hungarians, and which are important in order to show our children, our grandchildren and the future generation the history of Hungarians. To show you our latest publication, the kidnapped Hungaria [[He's showing me the book.]] This book has recently been published in limited copies; I trust that we can continue to publish it, because we are a civil society organisation with little financial resources. But it is our NGO, the Hungarian Patriot, that has been fighting for years to replace the communist street signs in this country, that we have some success. I ask my fellow Members to help us in this work, so that thirty years after the change of regime, we can finally get to all the settlements of Hungary to replace all the communist street signs in this country. I think it is important to say that everything we do to remember the past, in which we bring back an event in our history, and we are transferring it to our children, our grandchildren, supports our culture, our history, to survive. And if our history, our culture, our language survive, then it can result that the Carpathian Basin will continue to be loud with Hungarian words in a thousand years' time, the Carpathian Basin will still be filled by the Hungarian nation as the largest nation, and in a thousand years' time, the Carpathian Basin will be controlled by Hungarians. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-134	Thank you very much, Congressman István Happy. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2020-11-17-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank God, there is now the second item on the agenda before us, which, I think, all the factions will have a very good heart to support here in the Hungarian Parliament, and especially when we look at the House of Parliament, where the House of the country is now, and where the history of the Parliaments in Hungary has been, in fact, a thousand years of history in Hungary. How did this work out? The Parliaments were originally held everywhere. We talked about Ópusztaszer, that he may have been the first after the conquest, or he was in many places in the country, and I am proud that there was one in Szabolcs County, in the days of King St. László in 1092, a synagogue was held in Szabolcs, where there is a beautiful castle of land today, and there is still the Árpád-era church in which the parliament was held. For a long time, there was no tradition in Hungary of where these parliamentary assemblies should take place, and where the king called them, they kept it. Then in 1277, IV. At the time of László Kun, we first got to the point that this parliamentary assembly was held in the field of Rákos, and from then on it became almost regular and frequent that there were parliamentary meetings here. Why was this crime scene a good place? For there was a hill, now called King's Hill, and this is under protection, where the king's tent stood. The high priests and lords in the city, Buda or Pest, met in beautiful palaces, and only by messengers did they come into contact with the common nobles or with the delegates of the city's citizens, who, on the other hand, were out in the field of Cancer, arguing there. Indeed, this word is so widespread that these debates take place in the field of Rákos, that the surrounding peoples and nations have taken over that word, and Parliament itself, the parliamentary debate, the parliamentary debate, the origin of the word often goes back to the field of Rákos, for example, in the Polish name of rocos, a bit modified by the name of Cancer, or the Czechs, as they say, by the name of cancer or the Russians, by the name of the ugly; a stormy meeting, riot, rebellion, that is what these words mean. It follows from this that, at the time, if the surrounding peoples considered it that way, our nobles, our citizens in the city, had a heated debate in this area. As I said, the first meeting was in 1277 and then 35 meetings were recorded, which were held here. Among other things, Robert Károly and King Matthias were elected king here, which is why it is very important for us, because we are talking about our two almost greatest rulers when we mention Robert Károly and King Matthias, and they were crowned here. But the peasant uprising of Dózsa also began from here, as the people were gathered here at the time; we know from our studies that it did not start as an uprising, but as a crusade to beat the Turks out of Europe, and that's where the army was organized, and the papal bull, the papal license, became the Dózsa peasant war, the uprising, but that's where it started. The next famous date is the 1505 cancer warrant, II. After Ulászló's death, the Hungarian orders declared that they would only choose a Hungarian king, a Hungarian-born person, to be king. What an interesting parallel and a passage, we just had the presidential elections in the United States of America, and how interesting it is to see how similar the Constitution of the United States of America is when it says that only a person born in the United States of America can be the President of the United States; well, in this, we were a few centuries ahead of the United States of America's approach, and the 1505 Order of Cancer has already stated that only Hungarian rulers can be elected to the head of the country. Another issue is that, unfortunately, this has not always been consistently observed in the future, and this has resulted in countless problems for the country. 1540 is the time when the last parliamentary assembly and rendition will be held here, because we know very well that 1541 is the date on which we can date the split into three parts of Hungary, and with the taking of Buda, the Turks pushed into the interior of the country, which brought Rákos's field under Turkish jurisdiction, and it is clear that the time has come for these parliamentary assemblies to be held elsewhere. But somehow in the Reform Age, they always felt that the synonym of old glory was the field of Cancer, and that's what you have to go back to. Perhaps this also influenced our greatness and ancestors that the 19th century would follow. At the end of the century, when we finally arrived at a fixed location to determine where the Hungarian Parliament should be built, it was not so far from the meadow of Rákos, but in Pest that the Parliament would be here. Why is it important to embrace these national monuments? Why it is important to preserve our history, to give our past, the values of our past, to young people, because it is extremely important. We talked about this at the previous item on the agenda, when we decided the Petőfi Sándor Memorial Year on the occasion of the 200th anniversary. Everything that has value in history is very important, which is an example for Hungarians, and it is therefore very important what will be built there in the future and what this area will look like. I'd like to talk to you about why the Parliaments were held here. On the one hand, the proximity of Buda played a major role in this, then the drinking of horses from the Rákos stream was feasible, and the drinking water was provided by the Rákos stream at the time with still drinking water. There were small high places in this area, which was very suitable for camping, and this was ideal because of the large number of delegates. Moreover, this area was flood-free, and the Danube flood did not reach here, although the Danube was close. And it was a busy road, because the roads to Pest met here, and even the road to Poland led through here, in this area. If you look at the royal hill, what is the size of the hill, the height of this Király Hill is 137 metres above sea level, the highest point, as has already been said, is located in the garden of a family house in the southern part of Nagyicce Street, which is at 137 metres high. I note that the location of Budapest is 96 metres above the Danube level, so it is only 40 metres higher, the average height of Pest is 105 metres, the highest point is 529 metres, and the Gellért Hill is 235 metres above sea level, the relative height of the Danube is 139 metres, the height of the Buda Castle Hill is 175 metres, and the relative height of the Danube is 80 metres. [[16.30]] So the relative height of the Király Hill is 32 meters, so we can imagine the dimensions of this. If I mentioned the height of Gellért Hill and Buda Castle Hill here, one interesting thing is the XIII. 1st century: IV. During King Béla's time, the Castle of Buda began to be built on the Castle Hill, and it was famous for all the travelers of the world at that time and for everyone who turned to the Buda palace that the Buda Castle had the most wonderful fountains in the world. How could it be that the masters of that time did not understand how it could be that there were water columns at the Buda Castle Hill that rose to tens of meters high, at the time when there was no compressor, there were no pumps that could bring the water up so high. Yes, wonderful engineering work on XIII. In the century: the resources at the top of Mount Gellért were introduced in a closed system to the Castle Hill in Buda, and due to the peculiarity of the vessels, the water that broke up from there rose high. I was just beginning to say how resourceful the engineer was at XIII. In Hungary as well. Compared to this, the height of the Király Hill, its relative height is only 32 metres, but this also made it suitable for these important discussions to be held here. What is the national memorial? The 2001 LXIV. Act No. 7 Paragraph 8 of the Act states between the interpretation provisions that a prominent national memorial place is a national memorial place of outstanding importance in the history of the nation and of the Hungarian state, which is declared by the National Assembly to be a national memorial place highlighted by law. This is the Parliament and its neighbourhood. Protection and accessibility of national memorial sites in the public interest says the law 61/B. Paragraph 3 of this Article. A national memorial place can be declared the location which is the determining factor of a given historical age, which plays a prominent role in the identification of the nation. I think that in every way, this role is played by the King's Hill in the field of Cancer. What are these memorial sites? However, I think it is important to list the sites of the Budapest Castle District, the Rijeka Cemetery, the Hungarian National Museum, the New Cemetery of Crab Crossesztur, the 298, 300, 301, the Heroes' Square, the Reformed Church and College of Debrecen, the National Memorial of Mohács, the National Historical Park of Ópusztaszer, the Bencés Archabád of Pannonhalm, the Military Memorial Park Pákozd, the Somogyvár Cup, the Székesfehérvár Romkert, the Eger Castle, Nagycenk, Széchenyi Castle, the Castle of Szigety, Esztergom Várhegy and Water City, the Győr Kaptalom, the Szétraverbérbély National Cethely and Szamörhely Rámörhegy. A few more words about what has been said here several times about the Hungarian Patriot Community, and I really thank them for bringing it here and putting this proposal before us. They function as an association, their primary aim is to preserve the Hungarian cultural heritage and to promote national grace. Founded in 2014 on the day of Hungarian culture, on 22 January, it was founded by university students. They had several actions that we had already noticed, as they had a temple rescue operation in the Banat, and the problem of sporadic hungarianism was also addressed a lot. Their aim is to preserve the values of Hungarians, to strengthen national cohesion. They also have a very nice motto, which I would like to describe, they took over from Wass Albert: The life of the nation is the same as culture, not political events that run over it like the wind. The identity of culture and nation is the superpower against which weapons are powerless, and against which barbed wire lose their meaning. Obviously, the words of Albert Wass are very important, and this also shows us how important it is to cultivate Hungarian culture and Hungarian history. But it is very important and important, as my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz said, what does the government intend to do, that legal protection alone is not enough, because if there is not a spectacular exhibition for the young generation, what is the point of it all? The respect and presentation of the past, the preservation and transfer of the values of the past, it is our most important task to be able to pass this on to younger generations. I think it is a step in this, so that we can achieve this as much and as nicely as possible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-136	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary.
u2020-11-17-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for the words of support in the debate. I think that this is a matter of declaring the Király Hill a national memorial, in which there is a consensus in Parliament that goes beyond party policy logic. It's always a pleasure to keep this close and establish. If I may, I would first respond to a general remark. Member László Sebian-Petrovszki opened that general debate, and I would only briefly respond to why such matters should be dealt with in the Hungarian Parliament. I believe that the Hungarian Parliament should also operate in general, including in the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic. We also said on the spring first wave, and now, in the second wave, our firm position is that an extraordinary legal order must be declared, the decisions relating to the protection of the Crown Virus must be taken by the government in this extraordinary state of law. We have also been here in Parliament in the last few weeks when we have seen, for example, how slowly the amendment of the legislation relating to quarantine rules has passed through Parliament not because of your fault, not because of our fault, but simply because of our parliamentary process. It is not possible to take decisions so slowly in the control of a coronal virus epidemic, which is why we must have a special legal order, but otherwise the country and parliament must work, the decisions on the country's progress and operation should not be moved into an extraordinary legal order; we are here in Parliament, we are all paid to discuss them. In particular, this bill, which is before us, is crucial because, as has been said here in several speeches, the area had to be saved, and action had to be taken. The government could not wait any longer because there was a danger that several opposition representatives, by the way, suggested that the area would be built in, and it would have been even more difficult to restore the character of a worthy national memorial. If we move a little further from this general point, I would like to respond first of all to the suggestion made by Mr Steinmetz. I understand your arguments on the grounds, and I see that, given that the reasoning of a norm text cannot be interpreted in a manner contrary to the text of the law and the bill, it is quite clear that, as you have mentioned, it is an indication. But I understand your point, and I've already indicated it to my colleagues. As rapporteur, this is our responsibility to ensure that the justification is in no doubt correct after the adoption of the law, so I will propose amendments. In relation to the further fate of the territory and its exploitation as a national memorial place, the relevant law is absolutely clear here. The National Heritage Institute, i.e. the NÖRI, is in charge of preparing the memorial declaration and carrying out administrative and control tasks. The organization shall assess, monitor continuously the state of these memorial sites, take the necessary measures to preserve, maintain, present the national value of the memorial place, and ensure the development and implementation of programmes to promote awareness, development and presentation of the heritage bearing the national value of the memorial place. [[16.40]] In this context, the Government Decree 302/2011 provides that NÖRI will prepare a plan of use within a year and, together with the measures necessary for the maintenance, NÖRI will submit this to the Minister in agreement with the municipality of Kőbánya, which is the owner of the territory, which is now the municipality of Kőbánya. The Minister accepts this plan and the implementation of this plan begins. The government is assigning budget support to this. This has been the case for all national monuments, in all 19 cases, and so will be the case for the Király Hill, that is, the 20th Memorial Site. Mr Crusade said that it is questionable which areas are affected. That is, of course, true. We're talking about meetings here. Reconstructing from hundreds of years of historical perspectives how long each meeting lasted, a trying task. Therefore, everyone is focused on finding the highest point for the king's tent. This is the center of the national memorial. By the way, the proposal identifies this location, which is owned by a local government. The X. district, Kőbánya municipality also held a sitting in the area on 22 October, and a sub-Mayor's proposal was unanimously adopted with the support of 15 members of the body of representatives, which specifically says so, and I believe that every word is important here, and shows that Parliament is right to focus on these areas:. The highest point of the Királydomb is currently unbuilt, as it supports the initiative to declare the traditional place of the Hungarian Parliaments in the Middle Ages as a national memorial. This is what this proposal is about, and civil society organisations would like to designate this area as a central location, the municipality has designated this location as an area to support. I would add, for the sake of political evil, that only the local representatives of the Dialogue and the LMP did not take part in this meeting, so they did not give an opinion on the matter. [[Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes: Secretary of State, that was a very unworthy remark.]] But I don't suppose they wouldn't support the proposal. On the other hand, I think it is quite clear from this point of view which areas should be focused on. In the case of other national memorial sites, there was no such thing as a private property being declared a national memorial place. Obviously, this constitutes a very strong restriction on ownership. But, of course, nothing precludes the fact that, when the NÖRI begins to investigate and explore this area, it should then propose to extend the area to be declared a national memorial, so that it can take this type of initiative for the Minister. Then the area may also be extended later. But once again, the most important thing now is that the national memorial place should be classified, and for posterity we can save this very important historical symbol of location and location. In this context, I would like to thank you for all future votes in favour here in front of the Parliament. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Lóránt László Keresztes will come forward on a case-by-case basis after the end of the debate, but first of all, Honourable Parliament, it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. And before we move on to the next item, I'm listening to Mr. Crusade Leader.
u2020-11-17-139	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm willing to be reprimanded, because it's not going to be completely point-blank. Minister of State, LMP's representative in Kőbánya, Balázs Tóth, died shortly before in tragic circumstances. You supported this case, worked for this case. I think that political evil on your part, what you've said, is very wrong. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-140	Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the proposal to amend individual laws to ensure more effective enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment until closure. Proposal submitted by the Judicial Committee T/13631. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, author of the item, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-17-141	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Judicial Committee has discussed the submission of a Commission's own motion amending the bill to ensure more effective enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment at its meeting on 10 November 2020 and has decided against 8 yes and 3 no to submit it to this House as a Commission proposal. Ladies and Gentlemen, Respect and protection of fundamental rights is a primary duty of the State. According to the Constitutional Court, the order to protect fundamental rights imposes on the State the obligation to ensure the conditions necessary for the exercise of fundamental rights. The Constitutional Court stated earlier that the non-discrimination provision of the Constitution obliges the legislator to organise and severely punish discrimination against people prohibited by the Constitution. The Constitutional Court confirmed, after the entry into force of the Fundamental Law, that the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. Law 1 defines the requirement for equal treatment and certain cases of infringement following the interpretation of the Constitutional Court. The Ebk. Act therefore contains rules on the prohibition of discrimination and consistent with the provisions of the Fundamental Law on equal opportunities. The establishment of the Equal Treatment Authority was based on EU law and was subject to Article 13 of Council Directive 2000/43/EC of 29 June 2000 on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons, irrespective of racial and ethnic origin, and in 2002 the obligation to establish an anti-discrimination body was extended to include gender discrimination. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a fact, the Ombudsman's important role must also be to enforce the provisions of the Fundamental Law on non-discrimination. The Ombudsman also examines the infringement of equal treatment in the procedure of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and in the area of legislation. At present, the Ombudsman, although having extensive investigative powers, does not have authority to sanction the maladministration identified. Ladies and Gentlemen, Action on violations of equal treatment and non-discrimination by public authorities is in line with Article 30 (1) of the Fundamental Law, according to which the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights carries out fundamental rights protection activities. [[16.50]] The prohibition of discrimination or the requirement of equal treatment is a constitutional principle which must affect the whole legal system. Article 30 (5) of the Fundamental Law lays down that detailed rules on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates are laid down by law, which provides for the possibility of installing new powers in Parliament to the Ombudsman. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will be set up by integrating EBA to ensure that the requirement for equal treatment is met even more effectively. This idea, i.e. the fact that anti-discrimination authority powers are exercised by the Commissioner elected by Parliament, was raised in the proposal put forward by the then Commissioner for Nationality in the early 2000s. Ladies and Gentlemen, The protection of human rights recognised in an ever wider spectrum makes it particularly necessary to integrate certain independent legal protection bodies of the State. The operation of the Ombudsman, replacing the Parliamentary Special Commissioner system, is a guarantee that this integration will further strengthen the effectiveness of fundamental rights protection. As part of this process, the tasks of the Independent Police Complaints Board were taken over from 27 February 2020 by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the UN accredited national human rights institution. Ladies and Gentlemen, In taking over the tasks of EBA, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will have greater powers of investigation and action than ever before to take action to ensure that fundamental rights, including the right to equal treatment, are respected. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights shall take over all the tasks of EBA, including the powers of the authorities, which will allow the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to take a binding decision in the future and to impose sanctions and legal consequences on the infringer. For the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the Ebktv. A separate organisational unit will assist in carrying out the tasks set out in this Article, which will be headed by the Director-General responsible for equal treatment. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, please support the amendment T/13631 on ensuring more effective enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-17-142	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government now. [[Dr. Pál Völner indicates no.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in 15 minutes' time. First, I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-17-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As our Fundamental Law declares, Hungary guarantees fundamental rights to all without discrimination, namely race, colour, gender, disability, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other situation. It is therefore the duty of the State to respect and protect fundamental rights. The State shall ensure that the conditions for the exercise of fundamental rights are guaranteed. The government is constantly working to meet this state obligation at the highest level by establishing adequate regulation and establishing an institutional system that is best able to act in order to protect fundamental rights and create equal opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to create an institution to ensure equal treatment even more effectively by integrating the Equal Treatment Authority into the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. I think it is particularly important to clarify and emphasise from the outset that the Equal Treatment Authority will not cease to exist, and its general successor will be the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The Left immediately started to falsely spread the full liquidation of the Equal Treatment Authority, which, I believe, is totally unacceptable. Therefore, I would like to ask my fellow Members on the left to continue to make false statements. The idea that the anti-discrimination authority powers are exercised by the Commissioner elected by the National Assembly was raised already in the early 2000s, as the then commissioner of nationality prepared a proposal for this. Dear House, The protection of human rights requires the integration of certain independent legal bodies of the State. In our view, the operation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights replacing the Parliamentary Special Commissioner system is a guarantee that this integration will strengthen the effectiveness of fundamental rights protection. For example, part of this process was the fact that at the beginning of the year the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights took over the tasks of the Independent Police Complaints Board. The Independent Police Complaints Board was basically an organisation investigating police measures that could investigate violations of fundamental rights and disproportionate measures in police measures. Thus, the panel of complaints could be contacted by the person who violated the obligation laid down in the law on the police, the police measure, its failure to do so, the fundamental right to use the coercive instrument. However, in the event of the same violation of fundamental rights, citizens could also turn to the Ombudsman. By integrating it into the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, for reasons of legal certainty, this parallel competence has ceased, in a way that has resulted in a higher level of legal protection, since the Ombudsman is still the main legal institution ensuring the enforcement of fundamental rights in Hungary. The Equal Treatment Authority will be integrated into the institutional system of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and will continue to work within it. To this end, it is necessary to amend the legislation contained in the proposal. The Ombudsman's powers and procedural rules must also necessarily be amended. Legal protection is also the responsibility of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Equal treatment, examining matters relating to fundamental rights violations, I think that the legal liability system in this area will be brought to a higher level. It goes into a system of institutions that will be a more unified but still a higher level of attention for everyone. When it comes to the Equal Treatment Authority, we must focus first and foremost on how this institution has performed its tasks so far, and as it follows from our Fundamental Law, what is the possibility, as our constitutionality and the Fundamental Law state it, to ensure that fundamental rights, including the principles set out in the Equal Treatment Act, are respected. There is no doubt that it follows from the Fundamental Law, which was also supported by the Constitutional Court decision of 64/1991 and stated that it is the duty of the State to ensure the protection of fundamental rights not only by legal bans but also by specific institutions, so that the security of this is the responsibility of the State. The form in which he does so, and in which organizational system, the legislator has the right to decide, and the state itself has the right to formulate its own institutional system in this respect, and he himself sets it up. [[17.00]] In fact, in the present case, when we are talking about this bill and the structure of the Equal Treatment Authority, its location in the institutional system and its administrative legal aspect, we must say that the placement of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in the Office, as otherwise provided for in the legislation, and as this draft law itself states, means that the institution system and the application of the relevant legislation, together with the amendments which otherwise relate to the legal status and powers of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, will continue to ensure that, in our opinion, this will take place at an even higher level, within the framework of a higher level of organisation. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think that the bill serves to protect the interests and rights set out in the equality of treatment legislation, so it remains a guarantee. At the same time, it also gives me the opportunity to say this without a specific subpoena of the legislation, so that the procedure of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights remains unchanged, so that he can also carry out the tasks under his authority or under his previous powers, and his powers are supplemented and his tasks supplemented by the previous legislative options for the Equal Treatment Authority. For my part, I consider this to be a more complex, complete and higher level of regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to ensure better performance of tasks than before, at a higher level, to investigate discrimination cases more effectively. We consider it important to achieve the requirement of equal treatment, to recognise and prevent discrimination processes, and to have an adequate remedy for all people who are discriminated against, i.e. discrimination. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed legislation. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-17-144	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, is here. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I won't tell him a big secret if I tell him that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary doesn't support this bill. Obviously, we must ask ourselves whether this bill is a good one, to follow it, and the reasons that are listed are real, logical, and indeed this is the solution that we need to choose. It has been said from previous speakers that the most effective action must be taken in this area in order to ensure fundamental rights, which we fully agree with. I think that it is in the interests of all parliamentary parties, all factions here in Parliament, that fundamental rights should be guaranteed at the highest level for everyone and that we should avoid discrimination, and that is not what Hungary is about. I think that if that's the case and we ask any faction this question, each faction will answer yes. The second question is what is really the method, the system that can best protect citizens effectively from discrimination and how we can act most effectively in order to ensure that fundamental rights are guaranteed to everyone. We have seen that the Equal Treatment Authority has been operating for 15 years, and we have also seen that there has been no problem with the operation of the Equal Treatment Authority; there has been no real problem on the part of the governing parties or the opposition; the governing parties have always accepted the report, they have noted that there has been no objection to this. It should also be noted that there must have been a man of confidence at the head of the authority, as Ágnes Honecz, who attended the same professional college that Viktor Orbán and the team, most of which are now under the leadership of Fidesz, are now in charge of. So we can't even talk about a crisis of confidence here. Then what is it that turns up for a reason? We say that there has been no problem with professional work, because there has been no signal from anywhere so far, and we cannot, in theory, talk about a crisis of confidence from the government, so it is simply incomprehensible why the government is bringing this bill here today, and not the government, but the KDNP proposal is here and we are looking at this issue. Then one begins to look at the general justification of this bill, as to how it is formulated, why this is necessary. Here came the biggest surprises when I saw that, indeed, the honourable author refers to the Constitutional Court decisions, namely the 64/1991. It refers to the Constitutional Court's decision of 17 December 2006 which states that this is what we should actually do. If we look at it, it has been practically 30 years since this Constitutional Court decision. However, I would like to refer to one more thing. I also approached this Constitutional Court decision to see what it is about: the Constitutional Court states that this is the subject of this referenced decision, and I quote from the operative part that it is unconstitutional to define the rules on abortion in a regulation. Well, there's a lot of silence here and I've been sitting for a while about how the regulation of abortion comes to this issue, how the Equal Treatment Authority comes together with the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights; I didn't understand. Another sentence was contained in the operative part of this Constitutional Court decision, which states that the Constitutional Court does not impose a failure to comply with the law on the part of the Parliament. So what does that mean? This means that Parliament is not forced to take action; no decision should be taken that would have been required by the Constitutional Court, which would oblige the legislator to change the law. However, there is another reference to the Constitutional Court's decision in the general statement of reasons, and this is the case with Article 41/2007. Decision of the Constitutional Court of 20 June 2005. I also looked for this, and the justification for this contains a point where perhaps parallels can be drawn, but I stress that in the operative part there is not a word. At the very end of this Constitutional Court decision, we find a point, and this is the Constitution 70/A. It refers to paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act, which obliges the legislator to say so, but this is one of the last sentences of the explanatory statement to punish prohibited discrimination, so in any case a legal consequence must be laid down in the law. Then one takes out this 2007 constitution, which was then in force, to which the Constitutional Court refers, and what do we find? This is, indeed, XX of 1949. Law 70/A This applies to the provisions of §8 of the Act. So, if you look at it, the previous Constitutional Court decision of 1991 is also XX in 1949. contains the findings of law and of the Constitution. So I find it very strange that precisely the party of government refers to the former constitution, who threw away the old constitution and made it the way it did, and now let us not question how, this Fundamental Law, this granite solidity that we will amend for the ninth time tomorrow, in almost a short time. If you look at it this way, after all, is, on average, an annual amendment to the granite-solid Fundamental Law, then perhaps not so much. Although they said that I remember, perhaps there were suggestions about this so that no one could touch the constitution for decades and change it, because it was so good and so perfect. In comparison to this, I do not understand how KDNP and the national and government can today refer to the former constitution, the shortcomings or obligations set out in the previous constitution, or how they can refer to decisions of the Constitutional Court which are clearly and exclusively based on the old, fully repealed constitution. I would add that these regulations do not say in the operative part in either place that the Parliament should take any steps in this matter. In fact, as I said, the Constitutional Court rejected the application for failure to comply with the law, stating that Parliament has no omissions in this area. [[17.10]] And if I return here to the Constitutional Court decision of 41/2007, which, although in the explanatory statement, says that in all cases, there must be legal consequences in the event of discrimination in the law, which, by the way, does not contain an obligation to Parliament, or is based on the old constitution, but even if I say that in the case of the Equal Treatment Authority, they have had the opportunity to add the legal consequences, the appropriate sanctions to the conduct of the crime which they had previously implemented. And if we have talked about the most effective way to act, and we have talked about the fact that so far the activities of the Equal Treatment Authority have always been accepted, and there has been no criticism in this regard, I have looked at many of its decisions, which were on the website of the Equal Treatment Authority, and it can be concluded that the Equal Treatment Authority did, at a time when it saw some kind of discrimination between man and man in Hungary, when it saw that people were at a disadvantage because of skin color, not because of any other reason, it did act hard and imposed very serious sanctions, and in all cases it had the opportunity to impose these amounts, and indeed it had the opportunity to apply the adverse consequences, and it could apply them in a completely consistent manner. Moreover, I would also like to note that this question is a bit oddly dogmatically, that these rights will now be transferred from the Equal Treatment Authority to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, since the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights is an extended arm of the Parliament, which is not theoretically established to carry out official activities, but is the responsibility of adequate protection of fundamental rights, and that is why he has not received authority previously, because it is legally very strange when we present jurisdiction to a body of Parliament, which cannot theoretically exercise executive powers in Hungary, because the legislative power and executive power are not fortunate in any case even if we are to continue to place these sanctions here. Therefore, on the basis of all of this, we need to establish that we do not see the right reason for this choice and that we do not see the right reason to really support this endeavour of the government. What we see is that a centralization on the part of the Orbán government is constantly being carried out, and everything is being put into the hands of some people. I'd like to ask you, do you not have enough reliable men to run these offices? Now you see only four or five people in the country fit to perform these functions and try to take them away, and one is completely reliable, let's say, to put these fibers in Peter Polt's hands? And now, it seems, there are only three or four or maybe five of these people in Fidesz's sights, and it will, indeed, slowly restore the kingdom by combining powers, and then in the hands of one person, it will be concentrated. I would like to draw attention to one more thing. In my view, this amendment is contrary to the current Fundamental Law, namely Article 30 (2) of the Fundamental Law, which states that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights investigates or investigates maladministration in relation to fundamental rights; it initiates general or specific measures to remedy them. The Fundamental Law does not refer to sanctions, nor does it mention the possibility of sanctions. The fact that you have to investigate it is a fact. The fact that measures must be taken in order to remedy them is also a fact. That is why the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is going to establish something, make recommendations, and maybe if the authorities with the right authority decide to impose fines, it will be imposed, but I think that this bill will otherwise be implemented by the pro-government majority if it is to be voted on. Moreover, the fact that I have said so far shows that there has been no authority of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights so far, and it will be very strange now that one part of the Office will have authority and the other part will still not have executive authority and will not have authority. Or perhaps I'd like to ask you one more question: did the Fidesz interfere with an investigation of the Equal Treatment Authority, a determination of a fine, or a fine? Maybe that's why, we know very well how Fidesz-KDNP reacts in such cases, to do something out of anger, first anger, first impulse immediately, such as forced retirement of judges 8-9 years ago. Maybe it's one of those questions. I think you're the only ones who know the answer to that. We do not wish to contribute in any way, and we do not support this bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-11-17-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. Mr. President, please.
u2020-11-17-147	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/13631. The bill tabled under number 1 on the amendment of individual laws to ensure more effective enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment should be supported by the Christian Democrats. It should be supported because we consider respect and protection of fundamental rights to be a primary obligation of the State. Ladies and Gentlemen, The establishment of the Equal Treatment Authority nearly twenty years ago served this purpose, but the institution of the Ombudsman was also established in our country. The Ombudsman's important core area enforcing the non-discrimination provisions of the Fundamental Law, which means that the infringement of equal treatment has been examined for years within the framework of the Ombudsman's procedure, but without the authority to do so. This meant that the Ombudsman had found, but could not sanction, the maladministration found. [[Continue in 167/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 17 November 2020 167/2. Number Parliamentary Diary In view of the above and of the fact that Article 30 (1) of the Fundamental Law constitutes a fundamental rights protection activity for the Ombudsman, it is also considered necessary to have authority. Article 30 (5) of the Fundamental Law states that the detailed rules concerning the Ombudsman are laid down by law, and therefore, if we are to put in place authority, we must establish a law on that, and we must have this general debate. Ladies and Gentlemen, As regards the integration of EBA with the Ombudsman, it is to preserve at a higher level, with the end of succession, as my fellow Member, István Bajkai, explained in detail, in order to ensure that the requirement for equal treatment is more effective. By the way, it has already been said that it is not a novum, but that it was already mentioned in the early 2000s, as suggested by the then Commissioner for Nationality. The operation of the Ombudsman so far is also a guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, that this integration will strengthen the effectiveness of fundamental rights protection. In taking over the tasks of EBA, the Ombudsman will have more powers of inquiry and action than ever before to act in the interests of fundamental rights, including the right to equal treatment. The Ombudsman shall take over all the tasks of EBA, including official powers. The Ombudsman can therefore take a binding decision in the future and finally impose sanctions on the infringer. To the Ombudsman, the Ebktv. A separate department will assist in carrying out the tasks set out in this Article. [[17.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the T/13631 amendment to ensure more effective enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment. A proposal, a bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-17-148	Thank you very much. Mr László Varga, the notary of the Parliament follows, but it is my duty to add that the group of the MSZP has indicated that two speakers are presenting the group's position: first, Member Varga, notary of the Parliament, and then I will give the floor to Zita Gurmai, representative. Mr. Messenger, please.
u2020-11-17-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The opportunity to share the keynote speech with Gurmai Zita is obviously also an opportunity to approach the proposal from a slightly different perspective, and to give some thought here to its direct history within the Parliament. Because I think we have heard long arguments here about the importance of equal treatment, the requirement for equal treatment, the fulfilment of this requirement, which is guaranteed in the Fundamental Law, and, of course, in the future, the institution of the Ombudsman will be able to deal with this in a more efficient and uniform manner. However, until last Monday, there was not a single word about this issue here in the Parliament, and in Hungarian society there was no such thing as a request for any similar presentation. I think that the zeroth point in a proposal is always to examine the need for a concrete proposal. I would like to say, and with this I will also betray the voting behaviour of our group, that there is no need for this proposal. Perhaps in such a situation, when there is an epidemic in the country, a social and economic crisis, there is a time when, by the way, there are a lot of hard decisions to be made in health, society, all aspects of life, and there are many situations in which equal treatment is needed. We may not see the traces of this kind of equal treatment in your everyday policy, and then why do we need an authority to do so, but I would not like to put this issue into politics this way. The Equal Treatment Authority speaks for itself. So there is no need to make such political speeches. Over the past 15 years, this authority has performed its activities to the satisfaction of the public, and it has been the last refuge for small people, nationalities, in any way minority in this country, for effective legal protection in its activities. Yes, he has imposed fines and, of course, has had many resolutions which, where appropriate, you may not have liked, say, members of the government. That could have happened. At the same time, this authority performed its activities to the satisfaction of the public, and I repeat: until last Monday, there was no question of any reorganisation in this regard. He met on Monday, last week, at 10 a.m., the Justice Committee discussed three items, according to their order and manner, for about an hour. After that, didn't you, Mr President, tell us when the meeting is expected to take place this week? It didn't occur to me that, in a very short time, the next day, Tuesday morning at 8:30 a.m., a referral was being held by the Justice Committee. We were informed on Monday evening that, in the first round on Parliament's website, it was only clear that there was going to be a presentation here, and it was clear that this proposal was intended to be brought in as a motion from the Judicial Committee. The next morning, my fellow opposition Members and I were at the committee meeting, and we obviously argued that if they had any intention, it would also be appropriate to bring it in as a government referral, supported by appropriate impact assessments and in consultation with the stakeholders. Not to mention that there is a comprehensive network behind this authority, which has serious questions about its future. We don't know anything about any of these tests or impact assessments. I felt, then, that President Vejkey was in charge of the meeting in the committee, that my fellow Member from Bajkai was sitting in his chair, that I felt, and I really do not want to accuse you of knowing this on Monday morning; I do not think you did. There may have been an order in the afternoon, which, it seems, is now supported by a sufficient argument system and rhetorical twists, in English: the question that this authority will be terminated in this form, even if the successor of the Ombudsman... is understood. Yet, for 15 years, a public authority is being destroyed. Obviously, they voted for this motion there, at the committee meeting, and we are now discussing it here in front of the Parliament. However, I can still say that there is no social need to present this proposal to this House, and there is no real reason for it. In fact, my fellow Member from Bajkai put it at the meeting of the Judicial Committee that, in the end, this issue is regulated by the legislator as he thinks. I understand that, only in Hungary, I think it is necessary to bring in and negotiate such a volume of proposals here in Parliament if there is a social need to do so, if, in fact, people's lives will be better. We can enforce the requirement of equal treatment more effectively and better in reality in everyday life. This proposal is not like this, and I urge you to withdraw it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-150	Thank you very much. Ms Zita Gurmai is another lead speaker of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-151	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! We have long said that Fidesz is building an inhuman and unjust world. All of Fidesz's endeavors are to have people in this country who are always right and to have people who can never be right. It can be said that in the last ten years, Fidesz has systematically eliminated, eliminated equal treatment and even institutionalised discrimination in its legislation, measures and institutions, and expected this from its subordinates. And now, as the last step of this process, it will also eliminate the Equal Treatment Authority. This is the most revealing decision Fidesz has ever made. The elimination of the Equal Treatment Authority reveals everything about the inhumane values of the governing parties and their unjust world view. You, my fellow Members, are making discrimination institutional in Hungary. The Equal Treatment Authority has provided enforcement as widely as possible for people exposed to disadvantaged discrimination. Even though you're saying now that you've only transferred one function, it's simply not true. Even the bill was presented in a coup d'état, since the motion of independent representatives, as a form, precludes mandatory conciliation procedures. However, this should be self-evident on issues of human dignity, equal opportunities. Moreover, the details of the bill also indicate that not only are powers transferred here, but they are quite simply eliminating the practice of enforcement so far. But let's see what's bothering you. The adoption of the Law on Equal Treatment and the Promotion of Equality was preceded by two years of conciliation and preparatory work 15 years ago. As a result, one of Europe's best anti-discrimination regulations has been put in place. The law not only ensures the enforcement of people who are exposed to discrimination in 19 properties, as required by the directives, but also in the case of ethnicity, gender, age, sexual identity, family and health status, and even social origin. In addition to employment, the law ensures that all public and private services, including health care, and in the case of education, are dealt with in violation of equal treatment. The law proved to be timeless, even if it was touched here and there after 2010, for example, for the sake of loving segregation or the elimination of the Equal Treatment Advisory Board. But now you're going to eliminate the entire Equal Treatment Authority. [[17 .30]] Neither the text of the law nor the justification has convinced me that more effective action against discrimination is indeed the root cause. For example, the author of the independent motion did not care much about codification, he simply wrote in the law that the Parliamentary Commissioner acts as an authority in matters of equal treatment, on the basis of the Equal Treatment Act. By doing so, however, both the Parliamentary Commissioner's Act and the institution itself have become an impressionable and controversial torso. For example, the Commissioner has not yet had authority, which is alien to the operation of all types of ombudsman organisations. A stranger to the role of ombudsman is also to deal, for example, with specific infringements in the field of employment and services. The Equal Treatment Act provided for the possibility for services to examine discrimination from trade to entertainment, but also for example in the case of advertising containing discrimination. The Parliamentary Commissioner examined, in particular, constitutional maladministration, which is found in the functioning of public or municipal organisations and, in principle, not on individual applications, but on the basis of its investigation programme. It should also be pointed out that the Authority has also carried out a number of tasks going beyond official procedures, which would continue to be the task of the head department. But I ask you, by reducing independence, is the new organization free to decide on civil relations, research, dissemination of anti-discrimination knowledge, public disclosure of cases? In view of the activities of the Parliamentary Commissioner so far, this is more than worrying. The UN and the European Union's human rights documents include the criteria for independence to guarantee sovereignty, organisation and budgetary independence. None of these can be read from the bill. Rather, the creators sought to exclude the possibility of an independent decision by eliminating personal guarantees. The President of the Equal Treatment Authority has so far been appointed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Prime Minister for nine years. According to the proposal submitted, the future Commissioner for the Equal Treatment Authority will set up a separate department, the head of which will exercise employer rights over the Director-General. In addition, the proposal ensures that the Ombudsman can act personally and through his authorised staff in the performance of his duties as defined in the Law on Equal Treatment. Well, what's this if it's not a disbarment of authority? The possibility of making decisions on the basis of political taste or ideological commitment in certain matters is even scary. I repeat what I just said: what the Fidesz is now creating will be a legal and organizational torso. This new lineup will be inadequate for the task the Equal Treatment Authority has done so far. Even though the Commissioner will be the recipient of the powers, and despite the task of a separate organisational unit he has created, their autonomy will cease. And the same is the case with the professional and enforcement guarantees that have been built into operation so far, which are also disappearing. It is therefore quite obvious that the Equal Treatment Authority is actually eliminated by Fidesz. What remains will be merely the appearance of enforcing the law. Shame on you! Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-17-152	Mr László Sebian-Petrovski, lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Based on the previous comments, it turns out that we're knee-deep in blood in connection with this bill, it's bleeding from so many wounds, and obviously I'm just going to multiply it, and I couldn't do anything else. I think that you have to make a law, or you have to amend an existing law if you're either not regulated or it doesn't work well, it's not good what's in it. In this case, the speakers before me proved it, and I will prove it by example, neither. We are talking about something that was created and worked decades ago, and everyone, according to each actor, is working well, and it is a successful authority. Let us now understand the success by saying that citizens can turn to them for their crafty and troublesome things, that they do indeed deal with these problems, and that after that there is indeed some kind of result, such as punishment, such as any reaction to certain cases. This is very rare, by the way, in today's Hungary. There is not much to say about another authority or office to which citizens could say that, here we are talking about the last such office, which is being terminated by Fidesz. The authority is also successful because it has acted in very different discrimination situations, even in the case of very different discriminations, has brought punishment, or has acted in such a way that the notifiers, the complainants, were otherwise satisfied with the procedure. If you go to the Authority's website, you can read about a lot of measures to address and remedy very different problems. Some of them, by the way, were involved, for example, in a case where, for five years, a small-town post office refused to build the ramp at the request of the wheelchair resident to signal it, and therefore that resident could not use the postal services and thought that this was discrimination. It was found that it was indeed, so they acted against the Hungarian Post. They were the ones who acted against companies that advertised, let's say, job advertisements that were written out either for men or just for women, while the job did not justify this in any way. They went out and got punished. They were the ones who came into the operation of this authority, and this is where the politics came in, but they did, and they fined the Mayor's Office, István Tarlós's office, when István Tarlós was still in charge, because the information websites relating to LGBTQ were banned on the computer of the office, and the authority found this completely illegal. But it was this authority that was famous six months ago here, within the walls of this house, so-called "33" was accepted shamefully. This was the only authority that raised his word in this case, and none of the others did. So we're talking about the abolition of a successful, efficient, well-functioning authority. We're talking about a law that's no good for anyone, they can't show us in the last week, since this bill has been here, we haven't managed to present a single moment, a single functional dysfunction, a single problem for us or for the public, to explain why this law is necessary, why it has to be modified so far, why the authority should not function well now or in recent decades. The Ombudsman's role is transferred to the Ombudsman, and the Ombudsman has been fortunate to hear his report on the year 2019 here two weeks ago, and I have also said that the question marks on the Ombudsman's office, the problems relating to its operation and its proceedings in certain cases, are increasing. The Ombudsman's office has been or has not been speaking on a regular basis over the past year in cases where there is a completely obvious violation of fundamental rights, does not even speak on request, and here the Ombudsman has also delimited himself, said that it will not, or if it is already investigating, that it will drag it away for a very long time, and that it will have no result for months, even beyond the year. We have long been past that outrageous situation, that infringement, and the Ombudsman still has no investigative results. I would also like to make a point here: around January, there was an inquiry in the ombudsman's office about the mood in the country for compensation for Roma children in Gyöngyöspata for discrimination, how Fidesz and the government tried to use it to upset, and what violations have been done in this respect. [[17.40]] Although the Ombudsman announced that he would launch the inquiry at the end of January; it is November, please note, and there is no result of this investigation yet, while the Fidesz has long been beyond the campaign and the damage has been done. So we have a problem not only with the abolition of a well-functioning authority, but also with what is the new solution. Indeed, this will result in this change, which will result in less effective action in cases, less rapid resolution, much greater control by the government of which case will become, and what will be the result. Let me respond here to two of the points raised by Mr Bajkai, who asked for you and the left to make sure that we do not use the word "exit," but here is the bill itself, which is the way in which you say that you are talking about measures relating to the termination of the, the termination of EBA. You are also talking about termination, because that is what we are talking about here. I mean, what we're talking about here is they're pledging a successful authority and moving cases somewhere else, where we can better control the outcome and the course of these cases. I would also point out the weirdness of that argument, but Mr Bajkai has just said that it will be even better, even more effective to deal with matters, in the name of the bill. You know what I mean? So we're gonna eliminate something, and that's gonna make it even better to treat something. Well, there's no such thing in the world. We don't believe it, of course. Actually, that's not what this is about. In fact, this is about the fact that after the Curia, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, and I could list the bodies that have been occupied by the Fidesz government in the last ten years, the last such bastion will take place in connection with the Equal Treatment Authority, Fidesz has just arrived there. Let me publish the rumors here, if you like, rumors that live in the city about why Fidesz is doing this right now. Here the news begins from the fact that the current administration of the authorities would lead in the near future to the fact that Fidesz would be extremely uncomfortable in some cases that would await it, and the finding that what the Equal Treatment Authority would do, and they are going to go all the way to the future to avoid it, is a year and a half before the elections, so that any grain of sand is put into the machinery, and perhaps an authority that has such powers, punish, or at least condemn, any kind of government action. Let me just say one more thing to explain why I'm saying this. I am reiterating the bill itself here, which states in the detailed explanation that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, unlike EBA, stresses the law, which is not an autonomous administrative body. So you, too, have included in the reasons for the amendment the difference: so far, the Equal Treatment Authority has been an autonomous administrative body, and the Ombudsman is not. And here not only do I have legal problems, which have been listed very accuratically by the speakers before me, especially by my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre, but it is you here, and so I get back to those mentioned at the beginning of my speech that the whole point would otherwise be, the aim of each such authority would be to make citizens, those who turn to him, those who have been invented to remedy his cause better. Nor can we find the germ of this proposal; this proposal is a political reckoning with an authority, the new operation of the fidesz steam cylinder. Of course, DK will not support this under any circumstances, will not vote in favour of it, and will protest against it in every way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-154	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the dialogue, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, is next. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Obviously, I will not surprise you by completely agreeing with my fellow opposition Members in the criticism of the bill, nor will we support this bill in this way, in this form. I am trying not to repeat, but to bring up new things against the bill, in case we convince our pro-government fellow Members that this is not okay. First of all, we think the timing is very bad. So we are in the middle of an epidemic just before a crisis, a time when more and more people are expected to be in a difficult situation, more and more people will be vulnerable, fallen, and, obviously, those who are already in a difficult situation, minorities may be in a situation where it is very important to protect their interests, to have an institution to which they can turn in this case. Now, if this measure is taken, this bill will be adopted, then obviously there will be anomalies in the operation during the changeover, problems that will slow down these measures and prevent them, all at such a time. So I don't know why we're taking this step now, why we couldn't have waited at least until things got settled here in Hungary, getting back to normal. Practically during a critical period, in a very difficult time, they make it even more difficult for the vulnerable and the fallen. It has obviously been said here by several opposition representatives that the objective set out in the explanatory statement is less believable. The aim of the proposal at first reading is that it seems easier to merge an autonomous institution somewhere, to put it under something, than to find a loyal, committed president. This is reflected in the proposal, the grinding of independent autonomous institutions and the full centralisation of them, which is what comes out of the proposal. After the Constitutional Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Curia, the National Bank, the Public Media, the Election Office, they grind this up nicely, I don't even talk about the Media Council, and I could tell you that. But the thing is, in my opinion, the situation is even worse. So here's the thing: this institution doesn't fit your policy now, your disincentive, enemy image-making, divisive policy, it just doesn't fit, it doesn't work. So, in the next period, you will probably boost this policy, this exclusion policy as you approach the election, and we will soon discuss your next bill on adoption, where you will face the LGBTQ community hard, and this type of proposal, this type of policy that you are planning here in the next period, obviously based on the division, is simply not compatible with this institution, because this institution stands firm, well and quite firmly for these communities, and obviously you do not like it. So the thing is, all these institutions are expected to be in the way from now on, and unfortunately, this will not be the last institution to protect and grind up minority human rights. The Equal Treatment Authority has done its work very well over the past 15 years, and the professionality of the bill is bleeding from many wounds, as the Equal Treatment Authority has accumulated a very special knowledge in these cases. They have worked extremely well, they have made tough, firm decisions, but no one has questioned these decisions, no criticism of their activities on the part of the governing parties, and it is therefore very strange that they are doing so without any precedent. My question to the author is that he has consulted the trade defence organisations. What kind of negotiations were there? We have received criticisms from several of these organisations: the National Association of Autists, the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, the National Association of Associations of Limited Movements and the National Association of the Siketvak are critical of this integration, and they do not agree. [[17.50]] One of their arguments is that the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights deals with a number of areas, so that attention will be distributed between different areas. It is feared that the importance of equal treatment, the focus within the organisation will be reduced, leading to a reduction in the level of protection. Obviously, if this authority is packed into an institution, under the ombudsman's institution, there will obviously be less attention to these matters. Therefore, I do not understand this argument that it will then work even better. A further suggestion to professional organisations that the Ombudsman has the right to make basically non-binding recommendations will now be given a completely foreign competence from the nature of the institution. Here, of course, in addition to the arguments put forward by Csaba Gyüre, let me highlight again the professional aspects, because if we put this thing under a Commissioner or institution with less experience in some types of cases, then obviously its effectiveness may also be reduced. So I don't agree with the fact that this type of legal protection will work better here. The question is how much additional resources will be available to exercise the new powers under the Ombudsman's institution, what additional resources will be provided for the operation of the institution. Neither did the advocacy organizations receive any information about this. I will ask the rapporteur to answer these questions, not those asked by me, but those asked by the various organisations. In the President's statement of reasons and in an interview, he said that certain numbers of people could be rationalised and bureaucracy reduced in the course of integration. This is also a concern for us, because if fewer people are going to deal with this type of issue, then again we do not understand how this will be more effective and how this kind of representation will be better. How will it be, as you put it, a greater power than ever before and a wider opportunity to investigate than ever before? Congressman Bajkai said that the main reason for the whole bill is the elimination of duplication. If there were, and I don't deny that, there are parallels in the system, why don't you clarify that? Why not divide matters between the Commissioner and the Authority in such a way that we know exactly what matters need to be addressed to the Commissioner, what matters need to be addressed to the authority? That's a very weak reason. This could have been done a lot easier. And the cases! I have mentioned the protection of the interests of LGBTQ persons, in which this authority has acted on several occasions, and obviously what the government does not support, and this is the community which is increasingly excluded; the other is that this authority has also acted on several occasions in school segregation cases, which is also the government's most recent policy of division. But let me get something for you: In 2019, the majority of the decisions on the part of the authority were in employment. Once again, there is a suspicion that you are not acting in the interest of a lobby group again. What's happening now? What is expected to happen in the next period? Employees will be even more vulnerable to employers in the context of the economic crisis, which is expected to be your policy, and here is an advocacy organisation who has acted effectively in the interests of the workers so far, if they have been discriminated against, and if they are in the way, then let us put them out of business. Our fear, our suspicion, is that you have also decided, under the influence of some kind of economic lobbying group, that this institution must be committed. On these grounds and what my fellow Members have said, we cannot support this bill. We ask the government to withdraw this immediately. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-11-17-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mrs Erika Kissné Köles, a Slovenian ethnic advocate, who will present the first sentences of her speech in her ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-157	Hvala za besedo! Thank you for the floor. Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, Zbor Cenjeni! Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 11 November, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary decided to request the approval of the House Committee on the basis of the strong involvement of nationalities at T/13631. Bill No. 1 to make it a nationality item. This was approved by the House Committee at its meeting on 12 November. All democratic rule of law must ensure the possibility of non-discriminatory living and the pursuit of equal opportunities. Since the change of regime, the prohibition of discrimination has been established on a constitutional basis in Hungary. The Equal Treatment Authority was established in Hungary 15 years ago, and it is an autonomous administrative body with competence throughout the country to monitor the fulfilment of the requirement of equal treatment in terms of its legal status. Its legal and functioning and its authority are based on the same basis as in many other European countries. In its activities, it pays considerable attention to relevant international legislation, practice and the monitoring of domestic court decisions, case law and its incorporation in its own decisions. The task for the authority may be laid down only by law, no appeal against its decisions, and judicial review may be requested against its decisions. In the event of a suspicion of a breach of the requirement of equal treatment, the authority shall, at the request of a party who has infringed its rights or, in the cases provided for by law, conduct ex officio administrative proceedings, investigate the complaint in order to establish that there has been discrimination in the case lodged by the complainant. The requirement of equal treatment is to ensure equal conditions and to prohibit discrimination. It is damaged, i.e. discrimination occurs when a person or group is at a disadvantage due to a protected property. The protected features listed in the Act include nationality and belonging to nationality, which explains the significant involvement of our committee in the debate of the bill before us, as there is a large number of complaints from a complainant belonging to a nationality community in the submission to the Equal Treatment Authority. In 18 points, the bill submitted by the Committee on Justice amends the CXXV adopted in 2003. Law. In the light of the bill, it becomes clear that, by integrating the Equal Treatment Authority into the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the powers of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will be extended in addition to the functions of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The privileges of the previous, wide-ranging investigation and action will also be complemented by authority. By means of the amendment of the law, the maladministration detected, which violates the requirement of equal treatment or which undermines the fundamental right to equal treatment, may already be sanctioned and may take a legally binding decision. According to the Parliament's decision, from 2012 the legal institution of the Parliamentary Commissioner for National and Ethnic Minority Rights, established in 1995, which at that time helped them to exercise their rights as minorities. Since 2012, he has been acting as an independent nationality ombudsman as part of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. [[18.00]] As a prominent player in the national minority protection system in Hungary, the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, responsible for the protection of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, is the 2011 CXI on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Act No. 3 It shall monitor the enforcement of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary and regularly inform the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the institutions concerned and the public about his experience with the enforcement of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. It draws the attention of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the institutions concerned and the public to the dangers of an infringement affecting nationalities, may propose the initiation of proceedings by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, contribute to the examination of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, give an opinion on the Government's strategy for social inclusion and monitor the achievement of its objectives in relation to nationalities in Hungary, and may propose the creation and amendment of legislation concerning the rights of nationalities in Hungary. In his work, the deputy ombudsman of nationality, as a central actor in the protection of national minority rights, pays particular attention to the ongoing contacts with national minority representatives, advocates, national minority authorities and institutions, as well as with other actors in the national minority protection system, thus linking him to the Equal Treatment Authority. For us, for those who represent ethnic communities as MEPs or advocates, and for the communities and individuals of nationality, the fact that the administrative procedure relating to the protection of equal treatment responds narrowly in its decision is known to discriminate against a minority community or an individual from a single specific aspect, revealing the fact set out in the submission. At the same time, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Nationality Rights, looking for the complex contexts of violation, explores the causes of the alleged or real infringement of life situation and formulates proposals for all concerned. In this respect, the activity of the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Nationalities approaches a complainant's submission in a much deeper and more complex way. Where appropriate, the choice of a procedural form which is best suited to the petitioner in a case of discrimination based essentially on nationality, i.e. the choice between an official procedure or an ombudsman-type procedure, should not be a formal issue. If the complainant cannot or does not wish to indicate which procedure he or she requests or indicates both, the professional decision which of the two proceedings should be chosen in the interest of the complainant, so that the decision should always be taken individually, weighing carefully on all the circumstances relevant to the particular case, in particular with regard to nationality. We do not consider it a solution, of course, to run parallel tests. If, as of January 2021, a complaint concerning the area of nationality law which is likely to constitute discrimination has been filed with AJB, in most cases the petitioner will not be able to decide which procedure is the most appropriate and appropriate for him: the infringement which he has designated could be the most effectively investigated in an official procedure, or, first, an examination within the framework of the more complex procedure for the ombudsman-type examination of the protection of nationality may be more appropriate, which does not in any case exclude the administrative procedure in the same case. Therefore, the complainant will not designate who to proceed with his submission. According to this amendment, the deputy Ombudsman may cooperate with the organisational unit to be set up within the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which is responsible for examining cases of equal treatment. Therefore, cooperation is not mandatory. The rights of nationality, including the right to equal treatment in this context, are also protected as defined in the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Law on the Rights of Nationalities. For this reason, it is of particular importance for representatives and advocates of national minority communities that the exercise of the task assigned to this specific protection of rights, i.e. the selection of the method of examining the complaints of nationality discrimination lodged with the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, should not deprive the petitioner of the possibility of legal protection. For us, it would be comforting if the Ebktv. The selection of the examination of the area of law between the official procedure under Article 4 or the procedure under the law governing the functioning of the Commissioner for Complex Fundamental Rights could begin on the basis of the professional opinion of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality responsible for Parliament on a case-by-case basis, and not on the basis of general rules, on the basis of the administrative procedure, after which it is not possible to take a more complex approach to a specific case which has already been decided. We respectfully ask the rapporteur to take our opinion into account. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-158	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so there will be further speeches, the first to be heard by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It is not the first time in the last ten years when laws are being put before Parliament, where the KDNP government abolishes authorities that seriously affect Hungarian citizens. Allow me to bring up one such case: it was the abolition of the Health Insurance Authority in 2011, which did its job in relation to the protection of patients' rights. This authority was responsible for dealing with patient complaints, such as serious malpractices and cases of unreasonably sent from hospitals, but this organisation was also responsible for monitoring the services of the institutions, including the publication of waiting lists. We have initiated the restoration of this surveillance many times, and even several times this year, since the epidemic has occurred in Hungary, and it has actually just been revealed this year how much such surveillance would be needed in Hungary. The Equal Treatment Authority has done extremely important work in recent years. They acted on a thousand cases a year and opposed all forms of discrimination. Of the thousands of submissions, around 400 are the ones that give us the possibility of a real procedure. The number of successful, i.e. the number of infringement procedures is constantly increasing in Hungary. This is linked to the fact that 38 percent of the adult population have already reported personal discrimination. According to the Authority's research, the financial situation and social origin between 2013 and 2017 were the most dynamic causes of discrimination. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of discrimination complaints about Roma origin and sexual orientation. Complaints about segregation and settlements in schools are also considered to be serious cases. [[18.10]] In addition, there are some strange cases, for example, last year the authority acted against a bath, where the isolated male naturist sunroom was removed without any particular justification, while women were able to continue using this service. That's the kind of weird stuff the authorities reported. Some other examples in which the Equal Treatment Authority has helped citizens over the past 15 years: Protection of pregnant women at work. You know very well that it is still common and applied in Hungary to this day, that if it turns out that someone is pregnant, then, for this reason, let's say, they are dismissing him from his work, this is typically discrimination against women, which is still common in the workplace. Finding jobs for homeless people. Well, we know very well how the current government stands with homelessness, we could say that it doesn't even exist for them. Equal pay for equal work. You can also see from the 2019 report how women are again discriminated against in Hungary, let us say, for the same job a woman gets less reward in the same job, it is also found in this report, such as, say, in the same job with a male colleague. Protection of older people's jobs, protection of air passengers' rights, protection of children's rights is a very important part, protection of pensioners' rights, protection of the rights of people with disabilities, and combating harassment at work. I thought, when the lead speaker of KDNP, Imre Vejkey, went out to the pulpit, that he would give a very serious explanation in his speech as a keynote speaker, as to why this authority should be so called melted down or removed. I'll tell you honestly, this would have given us a little more serious and longer justification. But joining my fellow Members, my fellow opposition Members: you really need to realize that there is nothing special behind this, just the Fidesz's ten-year policy of what you do not fit into your ideology. And of course, the next law on adoption will come, and many have mentioned it, and it is not only against gays, gay couples, but also against the rights of single parents, the violation of divorced parents' rights. Everything that does not fit into your ideology has been severely punished in Hungary for the past ten years and is being punished more and more drastically. And I tell you honestly, listening to my fellow Member István Bajkai and to my fellow Member Imre Vejkey, they could not bring up any serious reason why this should be done, no serious reason why it should be spotted now, with this authority. I'm telling you, they're submitting over a thousand cases to the authorities every year, and I think it's a huge number, and by the way, I'll tell you honestly, I think we could report a lot more cases if people were willing to take action against the power at all; but you've been doing it, and you've done it for the last ten years, so that people can understand that they can't have any means of power. This amendment of the law is also about this: limiting people's right to talk about very serious things here, from sexual harassment to discrimination of all kinds, how can you bring them to the legal level, so that people are less able to seek redress. It's very disappointing. It's very disappointing, and you're stunned by every law like that. For the past 12 years, we have seen the work of this authority... and the authority that, if we go up to its professional accounts, we see that we are talking about an organization independent of power, which is doing its work without power, that power should not in principle interfere with the operation of this authority. It can be said that if we look back over the past years and read every single report, they will report very correctly, in support of cases, on what cases they have turned to the authority, and it can be said, as opposition representatives, that they could not get involved in the work of this authority, they have done their job. It is very difficult for us to talk about a public authority in the last ten years, and we could bring up a lot of authorities that are not independent of power, say, the SAO, and we could tell you a lot more, but we have to say to this authority that you have done your job to protect the rights of Hungarian people. And, wonder, here in the middle of the epidemic, the most important thing is where this authority could be reduced, the reduction of the many authorities, so that people can no longer go on with matters, make it difficult for people to do their job, and not even come to light, the fewer cases to come out. So, you really ask, although there is nothing new under the sun, I'm sure there will be a lot of laws like this, because their fantasies over the last ten years, we can't even imagine the infinity of the laws that the House, the Members, can bring to the House, in order to vote for the legal violations that we can represent the interests of the people. All I can tell you, especially my fellow Member from KDNP, is that this may not be in the Ten Commandments and perhaps not even in the Bible, there are very different things there, and it may need to be taken out and done a lot more. It's not gonna be okay. And believe me, sooner or later, you may also need a well-functioning Equal Treatment Authority, a well-functioning, otherwise functioning SAO, an independent prosecutor, independent of power, authorities operating independently of power. That moment may come. But I am saying that, in the interests of Hungarian citizens, I would like you to reconsider and withdraw this initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-160	Thank you very much. Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In several opposition speeches, it was said that there was no explanation, no rational reason why this authority should be eliminated, pledging it, and that it might seem to be an ad hoc idea by Fidesz or the KDNP, which is not sufficiently thought-out and as it would fit into such a hasty decision-making. I don't think that's true. Indeed, there is no rational reason why this authority should be terminated, since, as many have said, and I do not want to repeat them, it has done its work well. When it was created earlier, even I, as a ministry leader, was closer to this issue, we saw that this is a necessary authority, that its activity can contribute to reducing social injustices, that this authority can contribute to reducing inequalities, that it can give people a real grip on various discriminations, and that it can make many people's lives better, or, at least, if they have been affected by injustice, it can eliminate these injustices by a decision, a punishment, a decision. I therefore believe that there is a reason why they are ending it, but this reason is not pragmatic, it is not in the functioning of the authority, but in the policy that you represent, in the symbolic policy that you represent. This authority simply does not fit into the policy that you represent. It simply does not fit into the idea of how you see the world, how you imagine people working together in society, whether it is a family or any other community, and simply the kind of activity that this authority is doing in a very visible way, as it also informs the general public of what decisions have been made, and I could say that it is too easy for people to turn to this authority, it simply does not fit in the preparation that leads to elections for you. [[18.20]] I see this decision as part of a conscious Fidesz, KDNP political campaign. I am very sorry that such an important institution is a victim, indeed it is true, not at first a political one, to say that it is a consideration or a political communication action. We see now what kind of changes are being made in the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, we see the abolition of this authority, and they will certainly have similar ideas and ideas in the next period. The way I see it is that the tuners of this are among our country's movement, they are the ones who sing the ball or give it up for you, and you hit these balls, and you try to ignore the social sensitivity of this, but only in terms of political gain. So there is a reason, and I would say that there is only and only political reason, and I would add that this reason is, in my view, an unacceptable reason for this authority to be pled in this form. I mean, who was this authority dealing with? People who are discriminated against in some way. To be honest, if I approach it pragmatically or rationally, I don't understand how KDNP can make such a suggestion. For in fact, this is about helping the fallen, helping those who suffer, helping those who are crushed for some reason, who are lacking in something. This deficit may not be existential, but a lack of opportunities, but these people may be humiliated or crushed or set aside or put at a disadvantage. I think there is no better policy for a KDNP politician than to eliminate or deal with these injustices or to contribute to their management. I would add that, of course, there is nothing more beautiful for a left-wing social democratic politician than to manage these injustices somehow. That is why we have supported or supported the operation of this authority, and, unfortunately, you have served this policy because of political, party political goals, communication goals and social divide goals, which I think is a shame if we look at the KDNP logo and what I think a Christian Democratic Party should represent on this issue. In English: this authority has dealt with the inequality of women and men, as has already been said here by several people, where, when, in some respects, women or, in some respects, men, the disadvantaged situation of the disabled, the disadvantage of gays, or any other situation of Gypsies, for example, from a minority point of view; so only issues that are all a little bit of a group on the periphery of society from this point of view, which would therefore require greater solidarity, greater support and more support for these people and these social groups. That is why I think this goes against the values you represent as Christian Democrats and we as left-wing politicians and social democrats. The difference between us is that we do not support this authority being abolished. I fully understand this legal nonsense, that it will be possible for the Ombudsman's office to turn there as a sub-class and perform such fantastic tasks, even more effectively than before. I admit honestly, I do not believe that raising the threshold for citizens to turn to a public authority, or sometimes it is enough to rename something and put its seat elsewhere in quotes or even literally to prevent voters from finding it. So I think that this is not for the benefit of the people or social groups I was just talking about, but rather for political gain, they came up with a communication idea, which, unfortunately, will make the lives of many people more difficult in this respect. After all, they will feel that they are unable to turn to whom, or they will find it much more difficult to reach such official assistance than they may have been accustomed to so far. So, overall, I would just like to say at the end that this is not a correct proposal, it is certainly not in the interests of the Hungarian nation, it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people, it is only in the interest of Fidesz-KDNP's political goals. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-162	Thank you very much. Congressman László Cook, MSZP, please.
u2020-11-17-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking, as I listened to the pro-government speakers, how cynical pragmatism can be. We've heard the reasons. What was the first reason? I will summarize what my fellow Member Vejkey has said. After all, it will be more effective, and you will be able to fight inequalities more effectively if you eliminate them with a successor, but you will eliminate this authority. Obviously, that's not true. You know that, we know that. We found another reason for you to find a decision of the Constitutional Court of almost 30 years. It had to be a little bit more legally than any other way of raping this resolution, so that you could attach your thinking to it, and then you found a legal basis for it. We also know that this is not what this is about, that is not why it was created, this was not the idea or the will of the Constitutional Court. You know it, we know it. On the other hand, I think that you are much more precise and more prepared, as you know from politics, as from law, that the Ombudsman's maiden name is the Parliamentary Commissioner, and the Parliament cannot be installed with official duties. This is also causing some kind of jurisdictional problem, and I'm sure you're much more prepared than you are not to have noticed. So you know that this argument is not good either. You know it, we know it. So the pragmatic argument that was said created a closed logic chain in itself, but none of the elements were real, and that is why I say that, unfortunately, when a person is pragmatic, he can be so cynical. So let's really find the real reason. As the speakers before me have said, as Attila Mesterházy said, it is very simple: you realize that prejudice in politics now pays well. That's what I'm talking about. You're aware of that, and you're trying to feed this prejudice, or if you can't feed it, at least the brakes that are in this system, to eliminate them, to disable them at some level. Your politics always requires an enemy image. Let's just remember and do a quick reckoning. For the first time, in shiny blood, your government had to pay the rent. They made a lot of success in it, and then the public debt also drew a sword on you. They also achieved an opinionary success, although at this moment it is a little higher than when they started fighting it. Then came the images of enemies that we didn't get used to, and in our political culture it wasn't in the political culture of social democrats, but in Hungary's political culture it wasn't in the image of an enemy that a government no longer has, but who has a mother, father, child. You started fighting these things, starting to fight people. It is clear now that you have not been champions of equal opportunities, of course, that we would be able to cite countless statements where you have told us how a woman can fulfill her principle and what the woman's job would be, starting with the blind comondo, we could go all the way. [[18.30]] If we put these examples behind each other, it will set out a very straight path, where there is someone who, by his status, is right, and there must always be someone in these cases who, by his status, cannot be right. This is the essence of your policy and some degree of prejudice. If someone can say by their status that he is always right, and someone by his status can never say that he is right, well, this authority was created to prevent such a thing from happening in the 21st century. In the century. That is why we think that, in fact, we are talking about further strengthening the same political path, basically building on prejudice, prejudice, if not fed, but not hindered, and I think that it is the 21st. This is no longer a mistake in the middle of Europe, but a sin if prejudice is not hindered, they are looking for new enemy images. Who are they gonna be? Women, homeless, any minority? I'm guessing that'll be measured at the Rogan Ministry. Then there'll be a billboard and there'll be communication. That's the first step, that's why we're here. Believe me, gentlemen, you are not the strong one who is ruthless, and you are doing everything that can be done. You're being harsh. You can do that, you can do that. It's just plain harsh. The strong one who if he could do something, he wouldn't do it because he wasn't right. It's not a good time to do that. That is why we will not support it, and I think you too will reconsider. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-164	Thank you very much. Here are the speeches by Members who have asked for another normal word. First, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, can take the opportunity. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said in the Judicial Committee that at the end of a coronal virus epidemic, when doctors will most likely have to make a decision on which patient to put the ventilator on, because there are not enough patients who are in need of it, equality of treatment will be affected in these situations. During an epidemic, an authority that you have recognised for 15 years, since every Fidesz and KDNP representative, during his annual hearing, complimented the head of the organization after the reports, to eliminate it, is simply unimaginable and unacceptable to me. Not only is this not the time, but it sends a message to society that in such a situation where no one knows that it did not end up on a ventilator tomorrow because, as the doctors say, they are still laughing with the patient in the morning, and in the afternoon they are on a ventilator, because a patient's condition can deteriorate or deteriorate so quickly, then we should be concerned in this House that an authority entitled to discover, eliminate and impose sanctions on a variety of 19 types of discrimination is abolished? Because whether you like it or not, there's a XXI. Our society of the century, prejudices in society, different concepts and violent, violent revelations against certain social groups are everyday events. Such an authority, and it is no accident that the international organisation expects this to be created by every country, is guarding just above that certain social groups and individuals, if they have been offended, can receive at least some sort of satisfaction, and those who behave like this to them should never be in the mood again. And then, at such a time, a high-quality authority with such a long history of work comes to an end. I think that there is some kind of individual insult behind this, some kind of individual conflict, which is why this was the solution. This authority should have been re-elected in January or a new one. I am sure that someone told the Prime Minister that this leader is not loyal enough to the government, because he is doing his job, and it is possible that the interests of organisations that have been exposed to violations and legal consequences have also been violated by businesses or organisations close to the government. I'm sure there's no other reason for that. Unfortunately, for ten years there has been government based on individual interests, and this has been linked, at this time, to certain social groups being calmly disadvantaged on a legal issue where the principle of equal treatment is fundamental. Unfortunately, the Orbán government is counting on the votes of those layers of society who spend their whole lives hating someone, condemning someone, pointing their own personal skills at someone, failing their own self-eminence. Unfortunately, we have to admit that there are a lot of people in Hungarian society who are always looking for fault in others for their own difficulties, and for them, a government that always designates the enemy is excellent. Individuals no longer have to think, they carry in government propaganda the social groups that are just hating, hating, reprehensible, reprehensible, to be ignored. And with decent work, this authority has tried to bring at least the small satisfaction to the lives of the people who are victims of this hateful policy. It's that simple. I am very grateful and thank you very much to my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, for having so greatly revealed all the legal backgrounds of this proposal, so I would not dare to begin now to analyse the proposal myself, otherwise completely unconstitutional and uncoordinated. I am very grateful and very grateful to my fellow Member, Zita Gurmai, who wonderfully led up to the spiritual and emotional process that is important to those people who expect such an authority to function well in our democracy. I am very grateful that my fellow Member, László Varga, struck the tone that even our fellow Member, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, in the Committee on Justice, appreciated, although he opposed the proposal, but asked our fellow Members very politely to withdraw this proposal, because this is not the time. I am very grateful to my fellow Member, Mr László Sebian-Petrovski, for showing very precisely the political damage caused by such a proposal and the kind of political message that is not possible, especially during such a period of time, to make such a change. Thank you very much to Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, who presented this unacceptable proposal in the light of minorities, those people and those groups of people, which, by the way, is currently the most damaging to these social groups. And let me give you one more thought. I am sure that the Commissioner for Civil Rights is not pleased with this measure. If I were you, I would have done everything I could to keep me out of this situation. Why is that? Because let's just say, an organization placed under Parliament, which cannot have authority, how will it be able to organise its work so that one of its colleagues on the same type of issue only reveals, gives opinions, positions and raises awareness, while, in a literally identical type of case, it will exercise authority and condemn it. And then imagine that all of these are different in the legal system, because you can turn against his decisions to different organisations. Imagine that they will come to a court in one of these cases, saying that the authority has not acted correctly, and that in the same type of case, where it does not act under authority, a decision overruled by a court in other proceedings will remain in place. [[18.40]] So the confusion that this proposal creates, I just can't imagine that this is a normal goal. So, with all due respect, I'm still kind of hoping for common sense to rule, so, somehow, you have to take this proposal back, and I'm sure you'll find a man if the current president of this organization is no longer suitable for you in the next term, and let this authority stay at least during this period. 'Cause let me just say to you, just enough news on the Internet, scientists have reported that this epidemic is now just a start-up period for the next type of viral epidemic. So we have to start learning to live like this, we have to start learning to live after nearly a hundred years of comfortable life when our society has not been decimated by viruses and bacteria, because we have developed a good defence system, and now we have a different period, because there have been huge changes on Earth, from temperature change to climate change, and this has brought about this new kind of weapon, a weapon system against humanity. And what we are now dealing with today is to eliminate the organization that has been able to give some control and some satisfaction to social groups whose lives, activities and talents are ignored by others and try to undermine their rights? Just think, please, let common sense try to come back to this House and make a gesture to society so that this proposal is not maintained. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-166	Thank you very much. Congressman Bajkai asked to speak again. István Bajkai, representative of Fidesz may speak. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Although we had already held a relatively longer debate at the Justice Committee meeting, I had no doubt that the arguments that were made there would once again be welcomed back here, and that what was said there did not seem to have any effect on the left-wing Members. If I wanted to simplify it, or take a similar approach, I could say that it is very difficult to accept criticism from the representatives of the left on fundamental rights issues, if we look back on the series of events where peaceful protesters were virtually beaten. [[Intercom from opposition lines: Alas, alas!]] And then the police captain in Budapest, whose subordinates said they didn't have to wear the identification badges, and then they decorated him, and then you applauded him. So I think that if I could just do it with that, it would be enough to ask why I do not accept criticism from you or Ildikó Bangóné Borbély about what is in the Bible. So I could handle it with this, but I'm not going to do it so easily, but I would like to draw your attention to what is unacceptable in your suggestion or, more specifically, in your position. Let us first consider the question, in a slightly chronological order, that our fellow Member Csaba Gyüre said, what is a decision of the Constitutional Court here, which he simply simplified, that is, a question of abortion. First of all, we all know that he has done the law, and indeed he was my classmate, that the decisions of the Constitutional Court may be in our legal system and in the field of the application of the law, and, if necessary, it is necessary to refer to it, and not to decide when the decision of the Constitutional Court was taken, but to the question. He knows that very well, but he still raised that question as if it were a minor question. I would recommend to my fellow Member that you read that question, if you think so, because there the Constitutional Court discussed such important issues as human life, the concept of man, the mother's right to life and physical integrity and the rights of the fetus. It's long and almost a study-like. To simplify this and to say what this is doing here, and it's insignificant, I'm just saying, one of the most important decisions in the history of the Constitutional Court has been simplified. However, I would like to clarify this once again, and this can and must be referred to, because the Constitutional Court's decision makes other decisions on a particular issue. That's what happened here, depending on the petitioners' requests. So I think that reducing this, especially with a lawyer's eye, is a bit odd, with a lawyer's eye. I would just like to point out that there were six parallel opinions on this, which was of such importance, including Professor Zlinszky's. Let's look at the other reference. You can't stress that enough. Once again, I could simplify the question and say that it seems very simple here in Parliament the situation of honourable Members is very simple, because the whole opposite of a question can be said without consequences. So it is possible to create a mood, to express an opinion with no consequences. Let's see, if the law school were to perform an exam on whether this was a successor or no successor, then at the second sentence they would thank me for the words of my strict professors, send me away, and tell me to apply for a follow-up. Here, however, something can be said without consequences. Come on, tell me, if the law, which does not change in the procedure for equal treatment of public authorities and in financial law, I place it in another office, then where does it end? You can tell me this, and I'll take this. That's one of them. The other: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély listed in his presentation the fundamental rights violations that exist in Hungary for a long time. They exist elsewhere, they have to go to Ireland, Portugal, Finland, they can go everywhere, I can take examples too, but I'm not going to Brussels with them. If we ask the question that the Equal Treatment Authority is working very well, but you object to the fundamental rights violations, I do not think you have agreed with your colleagues which position to take. It works well, there are fundamental rights violations that have not yet been remedied. However, since it is not an end, so it is not an end, but an integration, let us look at the difference in law between the two, so to keep saying that it will cease, end, end, no, plow, plow, that is simply not true. Similarly, at the meeting of the Justice Committee, I said that you see the fight in everything. When I turned to this authority, when some Members may not even know that there was such a thing, I was already here as a lawyer on fundamental rights matters, and I did not consider this a fight, but considered it to be in the interests of my clients. The authority made a decision: if it was good, we all acknowledged it; if we considered it inappropriate, we went to the court. You see a fight in this. Not the healthy functioning of the legal system, not the criteria of the rule of law, that there is an authority that assesses a case or acts, but that they see that if there is a fight, and if there is a fight, they probably see very important fighting elements in the rule of law. Please, this is a rule of law operation, as this authority has worked, and it will continue to work, because if you have read the draft legislation that lies before you, you will see precisely that these functions are fully taken over by the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman's office, without any restriction. Andrea Varga-Damm said that it would be damaged, and that she could not imagine how it works; then go to many parts of the world, where there is an ombudsman's office that protects fundamental rights, even in Europe, there are plenty of examples. So the argument you obviously do not understand or do not want to understand is that it is left to the legislator to protect a particular fundamental rights issue and to put it in what institutional system. You have not been able to disprove which element of the legislation on equal treatment will not be fulfilled if this is carried out in the Ombudsman's office. I would also like to emphasise once again that the Ombudsman is the same neutral body as the Equal Treatment Authority. Come on, tell me what the legal difference is between the two. You can tell me, and then you can argue about it. I may not need to be more specific, but our fellow Member, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, said that there were weak arguments. I do not want to refer to the fact that I have dealt with this issue more than he probably has, but I would tell him that if, for example, the authority receives a request to be examined in the procedure of the Equal Treatment Authority, but at the same time raises ombudsmanial questions, one ombudsman sees both. The Equal Treatment Authority does not see through the Ombudsman's proceedings and does not see the reverse way. So if we just analyze this one question, let us say, for example, we can say that the location of an office can trigger both procedures and not forget that the Ombudsman is a respected institution of the rule of law. [[18.50]] So I think that the person who underestimates this is devaluing the Ombudsman himself, the Ombudsman himself, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, his office, his importance, his abilities, and therefore he is not aware of this constitutional institution. I would also like to say that it has been said in every Member's speech that something will disappear and become worse. However, they could not tell what made it worse, when all the substantive rules, all the procedural rules, remain, and administrative procedural options remain. When a citizen, a law-seeking citizen, comes to an office, what makes him worse, who does he have to turn to? If we are talking about an administrative procedure now, there is an administrative procedure, there is an appeal, there is the same substantive legislation, it is covered by the same forum of redress. Then what's the difference where you're trespassing anyway? In the presentation by our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm, I did not understand how he would bring this up with the risk of an epidemic, but I would like to say that if an institution works and works, please read the substantive provisions, no one said that this institution does not work if the substantive provisions remain and there is a body assessing it, acting in this case, and there is no change in the redress system, then what would cause harm to the law-seeking public, the person who is viewing himself as an injured party, to the issue of violation of the law. If you were to act as legal representatives now and thought that a provision violates fundamental rights, what would you do? They would make a request to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and he would proceed with the procedure under the rules of the administrative procedure. It was also said in the debate that there were no deadlines. How do you know that? Are you not familiar with administrative procedural legislation? You don't know the possibility of redress, the system of court proceedings? Well, where do they get that stuff? Once you say this, say it mantra-likely, I think that you will try to create a fight again on a legal issue, and I would like to say again that something has gone away, citizens have been somewhat damaged, which is not exactly true, because it is good for your policy. That's as good as going to a TV station and going to bed in front of the cameras, 'cause that's good, it looks good. It's not true, but it looks good. Now, you're doing the same thing in this case. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-17-168	Thank you very much. We now have two-minute speeches. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2020-11-17-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I only asked for the floor because my fellow Member from Bajkai began his contribution with a rather interesting argument and said that he could simplify it here. Well, then, Congressman, I can simplify your opinion by saying that you are the lawyer of the Orbán family, who gave legal advice on EU proposals for five billion forints, but you did so badly that Hungary was even punished because of the offer advice, because you did not check the effectiveness of these proposals well. But last time he was successful, he got nine million forints to refurbish his resort. In English: you must work for the money; either for the friendship of Viktor Orbán or for the signature, if I remember correctly, you were the fourth to sign the foundation of Fidesz in the Bibo College. I wouldn't want to simplify it here. This is a more important topic, and I just wanted to make an example of it so that we can cut each other's heads off because it has nothing to do with the events in 2006 or what I said had nothing to do with what we are discussing here today. But you do accept, Congressman, that there are other aspects than yours, there are people who see certain situations differently, social problems, than you do. Therefore, in order not to think about such categories, I would suggest to your attention, if I may, a quote from Pope Francis. He said that you should not judge by categories who is my neighbor and who is not, be your brother or sister's neighbor, whom you see in difficulty. I think it's worth doing in a spirit like this. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-170	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik, in two minutes!
u2020-11-17-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! My fellow Member István Bajkai addressed me, and I would just like to ask him one question because he referred to the fact that, indeed, there are important aspects in this resolution of the Constitutional Court in 64/1991, and that this is also the case. I ask you one question: why after 29 years did you come to your mind to amend the law on this basis? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-172	Thank you. Congressman István Bajkai, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2020-11-17-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I did not want to sink to this depth, but then I will answer the professional question to my colleague Csaba Gyüre. It was not the decision of the Constitutional Court that brought the legislator to this idea, but a single sentence, or one reference, can be used in a legislative question, which, by the way, if it had not been the decision of the Constitutional Court, it would probably have been recognised by you, too, and we are sorry, so you would have acknowledged. It means that the state decides by which body it protects an institution. That's not a question. This is the essence of the Constitutional Court's decision, not the way in which we want the Equal Treatment Authority, with succession, what we want to do with it. It's a legal argument, let's not confuse that. To be precise, our fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, first of all, this particular framework contract, which is always brought up in the press, and which is probably going to stick to me now, was won by three large law firms, one such unit. It is a framework agreement; secondly, we answer jobs for more than 100 people, and otherwise the Brussels authorities have not asked or punished our law firm for anything. It's an explicit mistake. They really like to use this. No one came to our law firm about making a mistake, just like they didn't make a mistake anyway. If you want to examine this, you're welcome, it's available in the Prime Minister's documents. The other thing is, I don't have a vacation home on Lake Balaton. This is again included in DK's communication and therefore I did not receive any support for this. The company or company that keeps a holiday home for its employees, I stress that there are very few law firms in Hungary that support its employees for social reasons, so that is what has won, but I do not have a share in it. So the only reason I'm saying this is because I feel a little bit petty about it, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, my wife also asked me if we had a vacation home because we didn't know. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-17-174	Thank you very much. There will be further speakers. They've all already told me. I would very much ask all of you to speak to him about the subject of the bill. I suggest that the ownership of family cottages should not be analysed very much in the context of this bill. Therefore, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély does not have to confess to this right now, but the MSZP Member's woman can express her substantive thoughts. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would say to my fellow Member in Bajkai that we are not yet at that point in time that you are telling me that I can shoot the Bible or not. You have no right to decide that, you never have, and you never will. That's why you'll take it. I may do more filming than you do, because you may go to church banged up, but I still believe in what's written in the Bible. You can't take that right, and no one else can. The other, if we weren't here and we weren't MEPs, then the way you're acting towards me at the same job as a woman, I could turn to the Equal Treatment Authority; I could turn today, not tomorrow. You know, I'm gonna make one more personal after all. I wouldn't hire you as a lawyer, believe me. But that's not what this amendment to the law is about. I am very sorry that the letters or the things written in these accounts are not read by you, and they do not consider it important whose protection this authority has provided. Yes, it is possible to play with words and law, in Hungary very much. We've seen that for the last ten years. But believe me, when we talk about people who have fallen and are disadvantaged, or about the difference that can be very different, it doesn't have to be negative. It shouldn't be negative. Whether we are talking about disability or if we are talking about a minority or if we are talking about religion, we can talk about a lot of things. But to put someone at a disadvantage because they are in a minority or because of something else, I do not think that any means should be used to support them, and even these people must be protected by all means. [[19.00]] And I might even be able to accept your argument for either the pro-government politicians or the secretary of state, why it will be good if you blend in and it doesn't go away, but it will blend into another system, you know, the problem is, for the past ten years, that you have served yourself no longer to believe anything, that nothing is going to get damaged, that you will be better off seeing it from the law anyway! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] And believe me... And allow me, Congressman, even though you are not stupid on the opposition side, because you just didn't say that nobody outside of you understands the law, no one can interpret anything. For every law, this argument is that no one in the opposition can interpret what is written here, otherwise the experts of the opposition parties are all stupid, because they cannot interpret the laws, only you are the smart ones, only you can read, only you can interpret the law, nobody else. Well, at least let us say yes, we read it, we understood what was in it, and we see it differently than you do. And not because that is not the case, but the last ten years have given them the opportunity to prove that our fear is justified when such a law is brought before this House. And, you know, at the end of the day, in six months or two, if we're gonna come here, we're gonna say, specifically, that we were right. I can say in advance that we are going to sit here and say that, yes, we were right. Every argument that we have listed will come true, because every authority that you have eliminated, shredded, renamed, or ruled over the authorities, over the independent authorities, we could say within a year or two that nothing is independent of power in Hungary today, nothing, there is no longer a system of institutions that we could say would be independent. We can talk about kindergartens now. Yesterday's news of how to prevent preschools in English from operating in Hungary. Well, that's a lot of crazy stuff they're making up. I said in my previous speech that we can't even think about what else is in their brains and their toolbox, so that they can increase their power even further, cement their power even further, and create an even greater dependence on the power and the citizen in Hungary. We can't even think about it! Thank God we're different in this, because that's not how we think. But we have always been surprised, day by day, week by week, by week, by how they can narrow down the rights of Hungarian citizens. And you wonder how Andrea Varga-Damm says that now during the plague, the rights of patients will be violated? My fellow Member, for a year now, we've been paying for health insurance without access to any kind of care. It's an epidemic, I know we need to protect it by every means necessary to prevent the spread of the epidemic, but that doesn't mean that we can't get to all the other paid services we pay for our tax dollars. And we could talk about a lot of things about the need for the authority that, say, you in 2011, the health care authority has abolished how much it would be necessary now, how we protect patients, because they also have rights, not just the power, but also the citizens. And I'm asking you to speak with a little more respect about us. I know it's hard, because it's hard for us, too, but sometimes you have to believe that we've read it, we've seen it, and you've given us a reason to think that way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-176	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Szakács, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, in accordance with the words of previous vice-president, István Hiller, let me defend ourselves to the point that it is okay to understand the depth of commitment and its causes. So it's okay to see it ourselves sometimes. We also see what works behind this smearful, onioned populism, which we hear on the other side, by the way, and, of course, we want to understand why. At times like this, one can tell the backgrounds that he hears and sees. Let me get to some of the things we heard in the debate. Congressman Bajkai says that if fundamental rights are violated, the authority has not done its job well. I've been looking for the right word for this, and, God forbid, I don't want to be rude, but that's stupid. If the authority doesn't do its job well, will the fundamental rights be violated? Well, that's when the authorities need to be confirmed. It's a net nonsense, unfortunately. I said, "I found the right word, I don't mean to be insulting, but I'm afraid that's true." It says that the law is fulfilled and that the substantive law does not change. It's always the same on paper. In Hungary, this is always the case on paper. And the truth is, ink and paper aren't squeamish, so you write something down, and one of the appropriate bodies accepts it, and then it's formally fulfilled, and it's financially fulfilled. And if it weren't formally fulfilled, they'd set up another forum that almost succeeded, say, the administrative court. If, by chance, the substantive law is not fulfilled, then they will narrow it down and then adopt a new law. That's how it works. Believe me, when we tell you these fears, when we tell you these concerns, it actually feeds on one thing, it feeds on the fact that we have much more experience with you than we have any illusions left. Today, too, there is one illusion less, one experience more in this regard. And I do not understand that argument from my fellow Member of Bajkai, even logically, because he does not make mistakes in order for us to benefit from it. Well, if it's good for us, then why do it? If we can use this kind of reasoning system, it fits our policy, you said that even though you're looking so surprised, if it's so good for us, we don't think they're doing it, let's just leave it here, let the authorities stay. And let me just say one more thing. Fight. Ladies and gentlemen, Is this side playing military? Seriously. Are there commanding generals here? Do we send soldiers everywhere now? Do we always fight here? No! Warrior rhetoric always comes from the other side, fighting rhetoric comes from your side. The conqueror is attacking the country, and you will protect him. That's what their politics are based on, and that, of course, requires a conqueror, an enemy image that I've drawn your attention to, even as a Christian, I call your attention to crossing a border. They've crossed that line a long time ago because this enemy image has a face, a name, a mother, a father, a child. We're talking about people. Not an hour and a half ago, two hours ago, King Matthias was praised here in connection with the Cancer Field Act. This is where King Matthias was praised, so why can't they think of humanism about Matthias? After all, 500 years ago, he smuggled humanism into this country. Why don't you think of that? Why do we get these cynical answers that the financial rules are fulfilled. When they're not fulfilled, they'll narrow it down, and then they'll make another law. That's how they've been doing it for ten years, and they're still gonna do it. That's what you guys are like. Are the formal rules not met? Then they'll create another forum. That's how they've been doing it, how could they change it? That's why we're saying the opposite, so we don't want it to be any different. We don't raise our children in a politically correct way because they're against you. No, because we want a world where we don't say certain words because they have pejorative content. You can take it if it's not affected, but your environment is, and it creates tension. And where there's tension, there's fighting, that's your field. You just fight, play soldier, have a commanding general. Relax, it's there when we don't say something because it's inappropriate. And the reason we don't do that is because it's not right. You're just being harsh right now, and you should be reasonable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-178	I now give the floor to István Bajkai, representative of Fidesz for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman. [[19.10]]
u2020-11-17-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really don't want to react anymore, because I think there's a tension on the other side, by the way, in the debate on a law. I would simply like to say, honourable Member, honourable Member, that I have only had the courage to say that I think that I might have done this, that perhaps we should not be lectured in the Bible. That's all I'm saying, we haven't offended you how you translate this for yourself, I'll leave that to you, but otherwise you're very welcome to have a prayer breakfast in our prayer group. Or not only there, but anywhere else, if that's the case, but I do not think that we should go further on the legislation. I think that perhaps the elements that are now almost personal, which, I think, were first spoken from the other side, really take the debate in the direction that no one else would like; at least we do not want to. We would like to argue about this legislation, if arguments have been made for some time, then we are very happy to answer it. The question is that the substantive rules, well, they don't mean anything, the procedural rules don't mean anything. The interpretation of our fellow Member is meaningless in the individual institutions. Then I ask you, what are we talking about? So if, now, in relation to a specific legislation, reference to substantive legislation is not an argument for you, nor is procedural regulation an argument, nor is constitutional reasoning an argument, then what is? Thank you very much. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2020-11-17-180	Thank you. I give the floor to László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, for a two-minute response. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow Member from Bajka: where did you hear these words? That's not what I said. I said they'd change it if you didn't like it. That's what they've done. I don't understand where he came to that conclusion. Of course, he was obviously talking to Mr. Secretary of State, so I'm not sure he listened to everything, but I understand that. But I didn't say that. It's not that. So far, when you have merged powers and, where appropriate, organisations, it is basically not working. By the way, while we're here, let's talk about this. They combined education, named an institution after poor Klebelsberg Kuno, after 19 months of stumbling, unfortunate and explanation, they divided it into 19 pieces. They joined forces with the State Health Services Center, and they took the public procurement from them today, because it clearly doesn't work. I'll tell you something else: they've merged the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board and the Central Bank. It went so well that two months later a bank and two brokerage companies collapsed, leaving behind [[Dr. Pál Völner: Busted.]] more than 500 billion forints of problems and tens of thousands of victims. These are your fine measures. Well, why should we trust that? Will you explain this to the victims of Buda-Cash? Will you explain this to the Quaestor victims? Will you explain to the teachers why that was good? Those of you who suffered by saying that if you wanted to leave A to B, you'd have to write five types of letters to buy a bus ticket? These are your systems. Well, why should we believe that this is gonna work? ! And again, I didn't say there were no substantive rules, and they weren't worth anything. I said they could be emptied, and you often do. This exercise, this is what we're seeing, this is not something that can be spoken out of. That's it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-182	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-183	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to begin with a more friendly thought: I appreciate the fact that my fellow Member from Bajkai is at all involved in the debate, because it is usually the practice that anyone who presents or takes up this will sit down, and then, at the end of the day, he will tell his own version here in Parliament about all the nonsense that the opposition has said. So I'm not kidding. Thank you very much for taking part in this debate. By the way, I would also encourage Mr Secretary of State that, as a boredomist, perhaps, after having looked at all the newspapers in this Chamber and perhaps participated in the debate, he has something to do with this subject. So it might be useful to hear your position, as well as the government's position. I am telling my colleague in Bajkai that I have deliberately simplified my thoughts there because I wanted to provoke him. I wanted to provoke him because it was relatively quick to see what it was like to simplify things, generalize things, and how bad it is for people when we do that. Of course, I am well aware that the SBGK law firm has won various applications as a consortium member, and I also know that in the profession, it is considered a well-known law firm, which is partly owned by you. Nevertheless, I think that it is worth noting that we should easily and simply generalise, and therefore accuse people or fellow Members of anything on this base. I also think one more thought is important, very specifically, for this proposal, because believe me that even its name is important to this authority that it is an Equal Treatment Authority. After all, he is also educating society, educating employers, and it is the fact that this word is disappearing and is melting into something, believe me, that it is also damaging and making work difficult. After all, at least this authority could have carried out communication activities on its own, or perhaps I would put it more casually as PR activity, so it was able to promote the work that it had done. I think that, in the framework of an ombudsman's office, this kind of communication activity or self-PR, in a positive sense, is given less, and perhaps this does not help either these people or people to find their way on this issue. And for the sake of the joke, I'm telling you at the end that he said that we're doing tension here at 7:00 p.m.: I don't know what kind of tension we can create. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-184	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to respond. [[For signal:]] I'll give the floor to Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-17-185	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, we're at the end of a long debate. In introduction, I would like to say that it was a very specific debate. There was not a legal type of debate on a specific legal issue. I could also say that on the part of the opposition, left-wing factions, there has been a strong mood towards the Fidesz-KDNP, and that there has been a strong mood towards Hungary's rule of law, that neither substantive law nor procedural law nor institutions matter here. But let us take a specific look at the speakers. Thank you very much to my fellow Member, István Bajkai, who, in his speech, told me why Fidesz supports this bill. And thank you for your comments, for your response, in essence, to the questions asked, because your responses were all appropriate, and I obviously thank the lead speaker at KDNP, who also supported you. I would like to say to Csaba Gyüre, the better lead speaker, the following, and this is true not only for him, but also for the other speakers, that they have confused one thing here: it is not a presentation by their representatives, it is not a presentation by the government, but a presentation by a Commission, namely the Committee on Justice. At the meeting of the Justice Committee on 10 November 2020, it was interesting that Vice-President Csaba Gyüre, our fellow Member, was there, but there he did not express a conflicting position against this bill, although, if I remember correctly, he voted against it. [[19.20]] The next speaker was László Varga, but before I respond to László Varga's suggestion, I said that there was an atmosphere. How can it be seen that there was an atmosphere on the part of the left-wing parties? Well, for example, that all left-wing speakers were essentially against and criticised this bill. But we listened to her, and she spoke, and thank you very much to Erika Kissné Köles. [[For signal:]] Yeah, he's there, he's talking here, but he's there. So thank you very much, Mrs Speaker, because the committee of nationalities, who is most concerned with this bill, has spoken positively. He expressed himself positively on this issue, and I thank you very much for your position and for the fact that you have no objection to succession. And if we are with a spokeswoman, the suggestion she made at the end of her speech, of course we will examine it, and if there is one way, we will accept it. Thank you very much for your suggestion, by the way. Now, returning to the speakers in chronological order, László Varga's MSZP lead speaker, he gave his lead speech in a divided manner with Zita Gurmai's MSZP representative. Our fellow Member, László Varga, said that the issue had not been discussed until last Monday. In this regard, I can say to my fellow Member that it was mentioned 20 years ago, and it was already mentioned in 2000 by the then Commissioner for Nationality. So to say it wasn't a word, it's a pretty strong twist. To my fellow Member, Zita Gurmai, MSZP, I reject the suggestion that we have tried to eliminate equal treatment over the past ten years. On the contrary, Fidesz-KDNP has been striving for equal treatment in Hungary and Europe for the last ten years and since the change of regime. And what she said is not legally correct, because we are not eliminating anything, but there is succession at a higher level. Several keynote speakers and speakers said that we would end this. We're not gonna stop anything. There is a difference between succession and termination without succession, as my fellow Member István Bajkai said, as is the difference between heaven and earth. Finally, I do not understand why Zita Gurmai is hurting, or why you are hurting that the Ombudsman will be given authority. I think it's a very good thing. There were objections that said that the Ombudsman would be reported by the honourable committee. This should be clarified by drawing up a report by the Ombudsman, his report being discussed by a committee and then by Parliament. But if you think about it, ladies and gentlemen, there are many such institutions to be heard. Let's start with the President of the Curia. The President of the Curia will also report annually and we will listen. It doesn't depend on the National Assembly, as you said. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: From Fidesz!]] I refuse! Or let's take a look at the president of the National Court of Justice. He also gives an annual report, but it would be amazing to say, however much he depends on the National Assembly. And the same goes for the Attorney General, and I could go on with it, so the justification for this was quite false. I can also say to our fellow Member László Sebian-Petrovszki that we are not abolishing the Equal Treatment Authority, we are talking about succession, or, to put it another way, about its integration. In the context of the Ombudsman's hearing in 2019, Mr President also gave a presentation on his view that the Ombudsman had not completed his inquiries in due time. The Judicial Committee heard the Ombudsman about his activities in 2019 not too long ago, and the Member raised this issue there as well. The Ombudsman replied that the situation is that there are some issues that cannot be resolved quickly. Although the layman's eye seems to be easy to answer, there are some questions that need to be addressed by more than one expert, and if those experts have given their opinions, it is only possible to make a proper decision on those issues. I would like to recall this in my fellow Member's memory. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue, he opposed the timing above all, why now, why we deal with this during the pandemic. After all, several of our fellow Members have raised this, and Andrea Varga-Damm is also an independent Member, but many are also. What I can say, fellow Members, is that Parliament is functioning normally, and any Member of Parliament, committee or government can submit a bill to this House, which Parliament will discuss in its procedural order. It is completely independent of the fact that the government has been given an extraordinary mandate from Parliament for 90 days to defend itself against the epidemic, but I stress that only to this. That's why you can't confuse the two things unless you're trying to mislead people. Now, however, what is needed is not to spread false news, but to provide people with real information and cooperation. I can also tell Mr Olivio Kocsis-Cake that it is not an end, but a succession. I would like to thank Mrs Kissné Köles for her speech. I have just responded to how interesting the parallel was: the committee most affected speaks positively, but the left-wing factions are all negative. Like I said, we're going to look into your theory. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély MSZP representative also spoke about succession and that, in his view, the proposal, this bill, restricts the enforcement of the fundamental rights of citizens. Ladies and Gentlemen, Madam President, you are mistaken, because this proposal does not restrict the enforcement of the fundamental rights of citizens, nor does it touch it, but merely establishes a succession on the part of EBA for the Ombudsman. In other words, nothing changes except succession. Attila Mesterházy also spoke on behalf of the MSZP, he spoke specifically about pledging. I wrote that down in quotes, so he was talking about plowing. I can tell him that it is not about pledging a legal institution, as he says, but about succession. [[19.30]] He even got carried away by saying that there was a political mischief here on our part, and that he felt that this had something to do with the 2022 elections. I can tell our fellow Member that he is mistaken because he has nothing to do with the elections, and there is nothing political about this. László Szakács also spoke on behalf of the MSZP, essentially repeating the alleged objections to the bill, which Attila Mesterházy also said. However, I must strongly reject the fact that Fidesz-KDNP would be prejudiced by anyone, which does not correspond to reality. Our independent colleague Andrea Varga-Damm also spoke about how such a bill could be presented at the time of the coronal virus epidemic. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that Fidesz-KDNP does not pursue hate policy, but rather the left-wing factions. To sum up, I can say that the proposal provides for the possibility of integrating EBA, in the work of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, to assess cases in the context of equal treatment by the institution which is primarily responsible for fundamental rights protection, including the national human rights institution accredited by the UN. Since I see that my 15 minutes are almost up, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable left-wing factions, who may be on the bench, but here in the Chamber, in the horseshoe, I do not see anyone now that the Ombudsman is also acting in the Czech Republic as a body to promote equal treatment under the directives. Thank you for your attention, and please support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-186	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Fellow Members! There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws on the subject of justice until closure. Government referral T/13648. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill, which is held in their hands, contains amendments to a number of laws on the subject of justice. These legislative amendments are typically combined with the common goal of making use of the practical experience of the past period and of facilitating the application of the law, and of aligning the laws with changing social, organisational and technical conditions and ensuring legal coherence. Allow me to give you more details on the planned changes to individual laws. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the amendment of the notary law. The planned changes are justified, on the one hand, by the practical application of the notary law and, on the other hand, by the preservation and strengthening of public confidence vis-à-vis notaries exercising public authority. The bill sets the rules of the tendering procedure on a new basis in order to ensure that notary posts are filled under an effective, transparent procedure based on an evaluation system based on professional considerations. The bill strengthens the powers of the Minister of Justice in connection with the establishment of a notary service, so in future, instead of the regional chamber, the Minister will issue notary applications for vacant or vacant notary posts. However, the powers of the regional chambers will not be impaired either, since both the conduct of the tendering procedure and the preparation of the proposal for appointment remain within the competence of the chambers. Detailed rules for the tendering procedure will be laid down by a Minister of Justice decree which will bring the professional evaluation aspects of the applicant's activities from the level of the current Chamber Guidelines to the level of legislation. The aim of the bill is to enable the most suitable candidate to fill notary posts as soon as possible. In addition, the amendment allowing the notary already operating to request the transfer to another vacant or vacant post serves mobility between notary posts and posts. This is also decided by the Minister on the basis of the opinion of the regional chamber. The transfer shall trigger the tendering procedure and shall facilitate the permanent secondment of a deputy to the place of residence by a notary who has been permanently appointed to ensure the full and continuous administration of the notary procedures to citizens. In order to ensure professional functioning, the bill contains a significant shift from the direction of individual notary to the establishment of notary offices, as at present there are only 313 notary offices at the notary headquarters, and therefore the transformation into a company-like form that ensures transparency is expected of more than half of the notaries. The bill provides for a simplified transformation until 31 December 2021, exempting notaries who can complete their professional careers in an individual form due to their close retirement. The bill also confirms the Minister's legal powers of supervision: it will exercise prior approval powers in the case of the rules of the Chamber which replaced the current Chamber Guidelines, and in the case of non-priority regulations it will exercise ex post control powers. Dear Parliament, The bill also amends the law on the status of judicial staff and the law on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. The amendment concerns former members of the judiciary, the National Court of Justice and the judicial expert institution, who are already retired, as well as close relatives of employees and pensioners, as well as employees who have previously been employed in the prosecutors' offices, but who are retired, non-prosecutorial staff, and close relatives of employees and pensioners. The amendment provides for the possibility for the judicial body and the prosecutor's office to pay social and funeral benefits to pensioners, depending on the appropriations provided for in its budget, and funeral allowances to close relatives. The employment of legal staff working in the institution of judicial experts in the service of a judicial staff is affected by the amendment of the Law on Lawyer activities, according to which legal staff may carry out their duties in the future, if necessary, as chamber counsellors or lawyers' lawyers' registered legal advisers. This amendment is intended to improve the labour management of the judicial expert institution and thus the efficiency of the performance of tasks. Mr President, Dear House, The bill also amends the law on the aid to victims of crime and on State compensation. The primary task of victim support and victim protection is to reduce the individual effects and costs of the crime, which, in optimal cases, means cost savings at the overall social level, improves the mental state of society and frees up human resources. As explained above, the government is committed to the wider enforcement of victim rights, and more effective implementation and promotion of victim support is a priority. The system of public victim support is extensive and the capacity of the system and the range of available victim support is constantly increasing. The system will be further strengthened by excellent cooperation with other public bodies, as well as with civil and ecclesiastical organisations involved in victim support, both nationally and locally. For victims, there is a wide range of personalised subsidies offered by the state, from help in kind, for example, psychological support, psychological assistance, financial assistance and legal assistance. There's help for everyone. At the same time, however, it remains a challenge for victims to achieve the widest possible range of victims. The amendment introduces the possibility of voluntary direct access to victims while maintaining the existing system. In this way, victims who have become known to the police will be contacted directly by the victim helper and offered personalized assistance in each case. [[19.40]] Of course, the victim decides to live with one or all of the subsidies offered. Following the presentation of this major amendment, allow me to draw your attention to the amendment of the bill to the law on legislation. The National Legislative Act, as an electronic collection of laws, allows the publication of the text of the legislation already published and its text of uniform structure in time to ensure effective access of citizens to the law. In recent years, there has been a significant technical development of the electronic legal collection and the related IT infrastructure, and an integrated legislative system has been introduced to provide a higher level of quality legislation and to support government decision-making and decision-making processes as well as certain related official activities in a single and exclusive IT support. The aim of the bill is to transfer the technical changes necessary for the renewed infrastructure to the legal system, paying particular attention to ensuring that, while the autonomy of the local government remains respected, the adequacy of the legislative texts that are emerging remains ensured. The application of the integrated legislative system by notaries will result in significant administrative burden and bureaucracy reduction by ensuring the possibility of direct electronic assignment and transfer of documents. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is also part of the amendment of the law on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. It is important to point out that the amendment was included in the bill on the initiative of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and is primarily concerned with the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. On the basis of the bill, the provisions concerning the management of the office and the authority of the head of the body managing the chapter are amended. These powers shall be conferred on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights elected by Parliament instead of the Secretary-General. In addition, the bill states that the Secretary-General, under the leadership of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, carries out the tasks set out in the Office's rules of organisation and operation. Mr President, Dear Parliament, An important element of the bill is also the amendment of the law on the organisation and administration of courts and on the status and remuneration of judges. The regulation of these two laws has always been built on one another and it is important that the contents of these two laws are in line with each other and are therefore being amended together. According to Article 25 (3) of the Fundamental Law, the Curia, in addition to deciding as a court in criminal matters, private law disputes, the legality of administrative decisions, the conflict and annulment of the municipal decree, the failure of the local government to comply with its legislative obligations based on law, i.e. to act as a judge, ensures the unity of the application of the law of the courts. In other words, it exercises its judicial activities by conferring on it the task of ensuring the unity of the application of the law of the courts, not by law, but by the Fundamental Law itself. According to the Fundamental Law, this task, which separates it from any other court, makes the Mansion a mansion. In other words, the Curia's role as a formal, normative legal uniter based on the Fundamental Law also requires individual decisions, the decisions of the complaints of the legal unit and of the legal unit cannot be avoided. This is a task and responsibility that cannot be delegated, shared, spread out. The legal unit is a fundamental and completely concrete requirement for all citizens, all legal persons, all legal entities. Insurance is a basic rule of law. The new regulation aims to strengthen this fundamental constitutional value and to further improve the regulation on complaints in the legal unit, where procedural conditions and the resolution of individual procedural issues are more precise than is currently the case. Nationally uniform case-law, which in short means that similar cases should be judged in the same way by the various courts of the country, guarantees in part the absolute constitutional requirement of equality before the law, but also guarantees the predictability of the law. Both are values for which all practitioners of the power of state, the legislator, the courts and the executive authority must constantly act and act. That is why we have made these amendments. In the practice of the Hungarian Constitutional Court, the predictability of the application of the law is part of legal certainty. However, legal certainty is one of the main elements of the rule of law. As the Constitutional Court has stated in several decisions, the essence of legal certainty on the one hand is that public authorities operate within the organisational framework defined by law, in the operational order established by law, within the limits that are known and predictable to citizens by law. On the other hand, legal certainty makes it the duty of the State, in particular the legislator, to ensure that the whole of the law, its parts and the individual legislation are clear, clear, predictable and predictable to the recipients of the norm. This was also recorded in several decisions of the Constitutional Court. Legal certainty therefore requires, according to the Constitutional Court's interpretation, not only clarity of certain standards, but also the predictability of the operation of individual legal institutions. All of these were laid down during the first period of operation of the Constitutional Court, which formed the legal system, but this practice was confirmed after the entry into force of the Fundamental Law. The status of the Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General of the Curia is an important subject of the amendments to the bill concerning the judicial organisation. According to the law on the organisation and administration of the courts, the Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General of the Curia have no original powers conferred by the law. Certain powers conferred on the President of the Curia may be exercised to the extent and extent specified in the Organisational and Operational Rules of the Curia. The Vice-Presidents and Head of Colleges shall act primarily as case-law and may receive administrative tasks only exceptionally, so that their term of office is not necessarily consistent with the term of office of the President of the Curia. On the other hand, in the case of the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General, this coordination is inevitable for the smooth cooperation and ultimately for the responsibility conferred on the President of the Curia. The bill therefore ensures that this consistency does not depend on the legislation: it adapts the mandate of the President of the Curia to the terms of office of the two executives with specific administrative functions. It shall also ensure that, at the end of the term of office of the President of the Curia, the continuity of operations can be ensured in accordance with the new President-elect. The expected adoption, publication and entry into force of the bill on 1 January 2021 preclude the application of its rules in the course of the first days of January, and therefore a transitional rule had to be laid down in this case: the posts of secretary-general and deputy secretary-general may be filled by a mandate pending the award of tenders. Dear Parliament, The following nodes of amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice and the Law on the Status of Judges are the rules on the status and status of a judge assigned to the Ministry of Justice and to the body concerned. The position of judges in the Ministry of Justice led by the Minister for Justice has been a tradition for decades. In addition, in addition to the position in the Ministry of Justice led by the Minister for Justice, a judge who judges administrative matters may be assigned to the so-called body concerned, thanks to an amendment under the law amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district procedures. These are the bodies concerned: the Office of the Constitutional Court, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the State Audit Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the central administration of the state, including, for example, the Ministry of Justice and the Budapest and County Government Office. In view of the fact that both the position of the judge in the Ministry led by the Minister for Justice and the position of the judge to the body concerned, acting in the administrative field, are in line with the fact that the judge to be appointed may assist the work of the listed bodies with his or her experience in the course of the case, while at the same time obtaining an important work experience with the body concerned, it is not appropriate to distinguish between the judges from the point of view of the position. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendments to the Arbitration Act should also be included. These amendments serve to complete effective dispute resolution opportunities that are better adapted to the needs of the parties. The amending proposal makes it clear that there is an arbitration clause in respect of any legal relationship relating to a trust management contract. In the case of trust management contracts containing international elements, where appropriate, the arbitration procedure constitutes a particularly advantageous alternative dispute resolution mechanism, for example because of the simplification of jurisdiction issues or the free choice of the language of the proceedings. The amending proposal also allows the members of the arbitration panel to be elected to an arbitration panel of their own volition, leading to a broadening of the parties' right to make provision. [[19.50]] Dear House, If you look at the bill before you, you can see that the adoption rules are also being amended. The proposal clearly intends to favour adoption by spouses as the most appropriate form of care for a child with the greatest legal and emotional security. In view of the fact that adoption is a family replacement institution, in the interest of the child, the current legislation currently lays down the minimum rule that adoption by married adopters should be authorised by the guardian's office in the first place. This direction of regulation is strengthened by the bill before you, according to which the law would be amended so that, in principle, in order to raise a child in the family, with the exception of adoption by the spouse of relatives or parents, only married couples can adopt a child, i.e. an adoptive parent can only be a married woman and a man. However, in exceptional cases, it is still possible to adopt a child alone, but to establish the suitability of the person who intends to adopt it in the procedure prior to adoption, the prior consent of the person responsible for family policy, the Minister, is required. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the above amendments, the bill also makes minor but important corrections to certain laws. However, the importance of these is that we must respond to certain life situations or, for example, the pace of some improvements. Allow me to highlight some of these amendments. The amendment to the law on debt settlement for natural persons aims to address certain issues raised in the application of the law and to establish rules for clarifying them. These amendments concern the out-of-court debt settlement agreement, the court debt settlement, the debtor's bankruptcy protection and the judicial discharge closing a successful debt settlement. With regard to the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up, as well as the general rules on electronic administration and trust services, the bill sets the deadline for the development of electronic contacts in the company procedure and for the completion of the necessary improvements to integrate the gate registration into the company's establishment process at a later date. This is because the improvements are large and there is no way to do them now. By adopting the law amending individual laws in connection with the establishment of one-degree district office procedures, the Honourable Parliament has created the possibility to establish a district court in Csorna and a place of law in Balatonfüred. For a settlement, it is always of great importance to have judgment there and to have judgment in decent circumstances. This requires adequate buildings and infrastructure, and therefore the bill provides for an additional one-year preparatory period to start the operation of the district court and the place of law. Dear House, In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the following: the bill seeks to incorporate into the provisions of the laws concerned the needs that have been raised in practice. The amendments also contribute to adapting the laws to changing technical, economic and social conditions and to maintaining the consistency of the various laws. I ask this House to contribute with its vote in favour to the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-189	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us amends a number of laws on the subject of justice. These are partly technical and partly substantive amendments, of which I would like to highlight only a few of the most important and strictly justified amendments in my speech. One of the most important elements of this bill is the new foundation of the notary tender procedure. The rules in force are flawed and most of the detailed provisions on the tendering procedure are set out in the guidelines of the Chambers. The establishment of legal frameworks and the creation of a ministerial regulation level for the conduct and professional evaluation of the application facilitates the filling of notaries' seats, posts on time and with the most professional candidate. The bill provides for assistance to retired judicial staff as well as close relatives of judicial staff and retired judicial staff by amending the law on the service of judicial staff. In the future, the judicial body may provide a retired judicial staff with social and funeral benefits and a funeral allowance for close relatives. The government has been working for years to develop the domestic system of victim support. The state's top priority is to alleviate and eliminate material, moral and psychological harm caused by crime. The primary task of victim support and victim protection is to reduce the individual effects and costs of the crime, the overall social impact of which is the improvement of the mental state of our society. To this end, the purpose of the amendment to the Law on Victims of Crime and on Public Compensation is to introduce, while maintaining the current system, an opt-out system based on direct victim access, in order to help as wide a range of victims as possible. The essence of this is that the victim - support organisation or the police - trained specialist will assess which victims may most likely need help, and these victims will be contacted without exception. The aim is to set up a victim support system to support as wide a range of victims as possible, thereby achieving the desired social impact. The victim, known as a result of a police report on the basis of a legislative amendment, will be informed of the possibility of using state aid for victims and, if the victim agrees, the relevant data will be transferred to the victim support service, from which contact and opportunities available to the victim will be offered within a short period of time. On this basis, it is, of course, up to the decision of the person concerned whether or not to make use of the opportunities offered. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments to the law on debt settlement for natural persons serve, on the one hand, to ensure consistency between the provisions of the law and, on the other hand, to simplify the procedure, eliminating the difficulties in applying the law in practice. Some of these amendments: Internal references to the refusal of the application for a debt settlement procedure without a substantive examination shall be deleted. It is stated that public utility services which are essential for the debtor's daily life due to debts previously accumulated by the debtor cannot be interrupted by the public utility provider on the grounds of the debtor's late payment. It becomes clear that in the out-of-court debt settlement procedure, the debtor and all his creditors enter into an agreement on the detailed terms and conditions of the debt settlement. If, according to the available data and documents, the debtor has an outstanding debt recognised or uncontested but the creditors fail to notify their claims on the debtor by the end of the period specified in the notice published by the family bankruptcy service, it is necessary to include clear provisions on the continuation of the proceedings. The bill provides that a court debt repayment procedure will be carried out. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to amend certain laws on the subject of justice in order to make use of the practical experience of the past period and to facilitate the application of the law and to ensure that the laws are in line with changing social, organisational and technical conditions. The tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.00]]
u2020-11-17-190	Thank you. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a standard salad law, which is a little different than usual, because sometimes we have received a salad law here that amends nearly a hundred laws, there are only twenty laws here, and it is true that there is some connection between the laws, and the Secretary of State will tell us at the end that the Ministry really likes to put these changes together, especially where there is a connection, and indeed, they are related to the judicial wallet. Well, we prefer to be able to look at a subject in a law, and especially when the decision is finally made, since salad laws are generally laws where there are good things and bad things, and we are also used to trying to smuggle new legislation from the government side into the salad law that they try to hide from us, or to throw a rubber bone in something to chew on and distract attention from the main and important things. Well, unfortunately, we've experienced this often, so there's already a prejudice about it. So when there's a salad law on the Parliament's table, obviously we'll be sceptical about it. Like I said, in a salad law, there are usually good things, there are bad things, so this law goes for it, there are acceptable things, and there are not acceptable things. There are also very good things in this bill, and as an opposition representative, obviously it is our duty not only to say our criticism, but also to recognise that if there are positives in a law, there are also such movements. I think that this bill contains a mixture of these, and one of them. The first major chapter amends the Law on notaries. What we need to note in this connection is that the process that is constantly being observed in all areas of life under the governance of the Fidesz-KDNP is centralisation, the government's expansion of processes to the highest possible level, the handing over of control to ministries and the withdrawal of as many rights as possible from self-organisations, the greater supervision of ministries and government. Although the Secretary of State has mentioned in several cases that the amendments are made specifically on request by the notary chamber, I do not dispute that there are points in it that are forward-looking in this regard, nor do I dispute that the notary chamber supports them, and I also do not dispute that in many cases it has requested them, but there are clearly also points which the notary chamber has not requested and probably disagrees with them, and I note this in particular in relation to these centralising efforts. Obviously, when we talk about vacant posts, what we see here is that the Minister, the Minister of the Sector, has much greater authority in this regard, the Chambers are preparing only a proposal for appointment, but it will be the minister who can appoint him. In many cases, prior approval by a minister is required, such as in relation to bar regulations, it had to be presented earlier, and there was not even an approval in these cases. Now they can only be announced if the Minister approves them in advance. Once again, what is the Fidesz-KDNP government, the Orbán government, let us constantly touch everything in all areas, let us control everything, let us have everything in our hands, let us move forward with this policy. Such, I can say, are almost all the items on the agenda today; there were two items on the agenda today, thank God, in which we agreed, because they were important national fundamental issues, and thank God, both the opposition parties and the governing parties agreed, but in addition, in almost all amendments to the law, we can observe that centralization, concentration of power is in it, which is the greatest feature of the Orbán government, and in the past ten, ten and a half years, almost eleven, there has been a constant increase in centralization in all areas of life, the concentration of power in one hand, and this can be observed here, in this case as well. We can say, then, that the amendment of the notary law also contains part of the good parts, but, in our opinion, it is in the wrong direction. In the law on the status of judicial staff, the law on their legal relationship, we see and must establish very positive things. The introduction of the concept of retired judicial staff is certainly a forward-looking thing, and also the possibility of providing social assistance, funeral benefits for them from now on, as well as the possibility for close relatives to receive funeral benefits in the worst case, in the case of a funeral. However, it should also be noted here, as will the prosecutors' offices, when we apply this, that it will be a budgetary issue, that the institution will have a budget for this and that it will actually be able to provide real help to either the court or the prosecution's employees. The law on the aid to victims of crime, the Compensation Act, is once again a forward-looking thing, which the Government has explained earlier, and the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, have repeatedly raised the issue of victim assistance. We can see that there have been efforts on the part of the governing party over the past ten years, but we have constantly expressed the criticism that these steps are taking too slow, that we are moving forward with too little steps; we are moving forward, so we need to establish this, but we are constantly saying that perhaps we could move forward with more steps. This is about helping victims, and it is mainly about the obligation to provide information and broaden information, the application of the right of information, which is intended to ensure that at least 90 percent of victims are aware of the rights they have and what assistance they can ask for, where they can ask for help, and the flow of information back and forth. I have already mentioned that, in the case of prosecutorial staff, it will also be possible for non-prosecutorial prosecutors to receive social and funeral benefits and family funeral benefits in the future, which will depend on the appropriations provided for in the annual budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that it is certainly a step forward and a positive thing. I am no longer so clear about the courts, and I cannot be so clearly positive about the complaint procedure in the area of legal unity, because I have already expressed the criticism against the government that breaking into the courts step by step, step by step, and step by step under the government over the last ten years is an unspoken goal on the part of the government, but the steps that we have observed in recent years and in the last decade are clearly indicative of this. We have also said, and here we emphasized, in connection with the appointment of András Varga Zsolt, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, but the other opposition parties and press articles have also appeared about this, that an interesting effort can be observed by the Fidesz-KDNP, the Orbán government, and this is typical for the last two years since the institution of the administrative court could not be implemented in the way that they wanted it to have been approached since then with smaller steps and completely different sides, the elimination of the formation of the courts as an independent branch of power, and therefore we have already made many criticisms about the appointment of András Varga Zsolt. This is where we relate to this bill, how it comes to this. It comes here that the President of the Curia is also the Chairman of the Council of Legal Units and the Complaints Council, and we can also see from this bill and from the former, that the President of the Curia is the President of this Council of Legal Units, he is the one who can invite people into this Council of Legal Units, and that is what this is all about, and even the opportunity to expand, because so far only eight people have been members of this Council of Legal Units outside the President, and now there may be more who the President invites, so that he can determine the staff of those who will make decisions in each case. [[20.10]] These legal cases will ring down nicely to the lower courts, up to the district courts, that this case will have to be applied as a precedent in all cases, and that they will not deviate from the practice at the top level, nor the judgment boards, nor the courts, nor the court courts, nor the district courts, and thus influence the judicial activities of the courts from above the government level. We, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, cannot contribute to this in any way. We, indeed, stand for the full autonomy of the courts, for the freedom of judges, and for decisions to be made only under the law, nor can any legislation from above or any attempts to influence the judiciary that European society has been trying to eliminate from public life for 250 years. Unfortunately, in recent times we have seen serious steps backwards in this regard, and we see that this is in every way within us as a fear in the courts as well. So this is the area where the proposals would be partially eligible here, because there are also positive proposals in court, but we do not consider this to be eligible in any way. I would like to deal with one more thing, and this is the last part of it, which is about the adoption regulation. What I don't understand here is how it works that so far even couples in partnerships have been allowed to adopt children, and from now on, only spouses can adopt children. I believe that the past decades have clearly demonstrated that very serious, love-based bonds can develop on a family basis, and that, obviously, the child's education can be solved. The fact that people themselves have a certificate that they are married does not mean that they will be able to raise a child. After all, the competence must not be proved by the birth certificate, but by the proper system of professional authority, and the guardianship examines the suitability that the parents themselves, the prospective parents, cannot be called parents, because they did not give birth to the children who will be adopted, but they will be quasi-parents in the future. What's the interest? Obviously, the primary interest is to grow up in the child's family. If we look at marriage, and here we place the requirement that it should be dropped off only in marriage, then it should also be dropped off in foster care, because in the same way the foster parents who raise the child may raise it until the age of 18. So they don't care if someone's married or not married? I'm not saying that it should be the same with foster parents, but I'm just saying that in the case of a partnership, there can be good parents. I think everyone in their own neighborhood can find families where unmarried parents raise children exemplary. It is not a question of being able to produce a marriage certificate, but of being able to raise a child or not. And I think the social services can do that properly. I don't recall having had any problems in the past few days about adopting children, that someone wasn't married, that would have failed in raising children, or that things would have happened within the family that didn't belong in the institution of a family. I think it's not the paper that's gonna do that. It's the attitude of the parents, the parents, the couple. So I am not sure that this is a good thing if we set these criteria, because I think that life has proved that this has passed over the past few decades, and I am not sure that this amendment will be beneficial in the future. On this basis, it is necessary to see that there are positives, there are negatives in this bill, and, as I said, in such a bill, the problem is that there are a lot of things that we would very much like to vote for, with very good intentions, and we even fully agree with it, but unfortunately there are some things in it that are not eligible. Therefore, we are obviously unable to support, overall, a bill in which we have unacceptable terms. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-192	Thank you. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-193	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have just heard Csaba Gyüre speaking to our betterman, and therefore I am obliged to say that it is important to preserve the functioning of our country in the midst of the epidemic. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] It is important that Parliament sits and continues its legislative work, as part of which the Minister of Justice presented the T/13648 on the amendment of certain laws on judicial matters. Bill No. 1. Ladies and Gentlemen, Unfortunately, I have to conclude that the campaign for lies on the left and the mood for changing certain laws affecting justice is also taking place. The left-wing parties deliberately wash the normal functioning of Parliament with the control of the epidemic. The Parliament is functioning normally: any Member of Parliament or the Government can submit a bill to this House, which we will discuss. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Wrong!]] Totally independent of this [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: House rules don't allow it!]] That the government has been given an extraordinary mandate for 90 days to defend itself against the epidemic, but only to do so. It is therefore impossible to confuse the two things, as much as Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea does not like them, only if they want to mislead people. Now, however, it is not the false news that we need, but the real information and cooperation of the people. T/13648 on the amendment of certain laws on judicial matters Legislative proposal No. 16 amends more than 16 laws as follows: the annual XLI on notaries. Act XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act LXVIII of 1997 on the service of judicial staff. Act CXXXV of 2005 on aid to victims of crime and public compensation Act CXXX of 2010 on legislation. Act CXI of 2011 on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Act, CLXI 2011 on the organisation and administration of the courts. Act CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. Act CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. Act C.V. of 2015 on the debt settlement of natural persons. Act LX of 2017 on arbitration. Act LXXVIII of 2017 on Lawyer Activity Act No XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management Law and Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code and other laws. In view of the fact that Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, in his exposé, as well as in the keynote speech of my fellow Member, László Salacz, gave a detailed discussion on the bill, and I therefore wish to say the following. Putting the notary tender procedure on a new footing is one of the most important elements of this bill, which refers the publication of the notary application and the publication of the notice to the Minister of Justice. [[20.20]] Under the conditions of appointment, the bill also recognises as a case-law the practice of court secretary and assistant attorney, thus facilitating greater interoperability between legal professions. XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. LXXIII of 2020 amending Act No. Act 31 abolished the 90-day limitation period for liability to the debtor's senior officials in the follow-up to the infringement lawsuit. In view of the above, Cstv. 33/A. Paragraphs 12 and 13 of Article 12 shall also repeal the entries relating to the limitation period. The bill provides support for retired judicial staff and close relatives of judicial staff and retired judicial staff. In the future, the judicial body may provide retired judicial staff with social and funeral benefits and close relatives with funeral benefits, depending on the appropriations provided for in the budget. The aim of the amendment of the law on the aid to victims of crime and on public compensation is to make contact between victims and public victim support bodies more effective, and therefore the so-called opt-out system will be introduced in order to provide assistance to as wide a range of victims as possible. By amending the law on legislation, the rules on the National Legislative Act will be clarified by the fact that the primary objective of the National Legislative Act is to publish the published text of the legislation and the text of its uniform structure, as well as by clarifying which publication the Minister for Justice himself is responsible for. The bill extends to the amendment of the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act, so that the amendment regulates the powers of the Secretary-General and the Ombudsman again, which means that in future the Ombudsman will be entitled not only to the administration of the office but also to the management of the office. By amending the law on the organisation and administration of the courts, the President of the Curia may decide that only five-member councils may act in certain proceedings before the Curia. The amendment of the BSZI also complements the procedural rules of the legal unit complaint and also amends the rules on the status of the Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General of the Curia. The law on the status and remuneration of judges is amended to bring about a uniform legal status. In the future, by amending the Law on the status of the General Prosecutor, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor, retired non-prosecutorial prosecutors will receive social and funeral benefits, close relatives of non-prosecutorial prosecutorial staff and close relatives of retired non-prosecutorial prosecutorial staff. The amendment of the law on the local governments of Hungary refers to government regulation and detailed rules for the transmission of the local government regulations to the metropolitan and county government offices. By amending the law on debt settlement of natural persons, internal references to the refusal of the application for a debt settlement procedure without a substantive examination are deleted and the clarification provisions necessary for the calculation of the minimum repayment instalment payable by the debtor to the principal creditor have also been included. It has also been added that public utility services which are essential for the debtor's daily life cannot be interrupted by the public service provider on the grounds of the debtor's late payment. The amendment of the Arbitration Act in respect of disputes relating to a trust management contract clarifies that they can be assessed without limitation in arbitration proceedings. In the future, the amendment of the Law on Lawyers' Activities will allow legal staff employed by the judicial expert institution in the service of a judicial staff member to act as chamber counsellors or lawyers' lawyers' legal advisers. The rules amending the Law on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration and the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Children and the Law on Social Affairs and the Act on the Protection of the Child are designed to ensure that adoption takes account of the rights of the child more closely. The amendments are intended to be adopted by a married person with a more stable family background. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/13648. the adoption of bill No 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-194	Thank you. Dear House, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to the notary of Parliament, László Varga. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-17-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Imre Vejkey began his speech with a very long discussion, in which he whipped the left, and made opposition representatives and parties appear to be an obstacle to defence. I didn't quite understand how this fit in because we're negotiating right now. So the thing is, the Parliament is discussing proposals. Why those things and why in this form, of course, are an interesting question. He has often negotiated certain laws on judicial matters in the form of salad laws, as has been said before me, some of which included amendments to more than a hundred laws. And if Congressman Vejkey has taken advantage of his speech to this effect at half past nine, then let me use it a little differently with a sudden idea. If anyone who follows this debate is still watching what we say at this late hour, then think about how it can be so complex, even with a single click on the issues governing different areas of life in the Parliament. How do you decide to change certain areas in such a complex package? You are obviously always taking advantage of them to introduce a social issue into such a package of proposals, which triggers a great debate, which may be unacceptable to opposition parties, and if we adopt an opinion on this, say, rejecting the package of proposals because of such content, then you can say that we did not support technical proposals for harmonisation or proposals that were partly forward-looking. But if some of you are still watching our speeches on the Internet, I would also like to say quickly how different laws are regulated by this package. The notary law. The law on bankruptcy, winding-up proceedings. The law on the service of judicial staff. The Law on Aid for Victims of Crime and Public Compensation. The law on company publicity, court proceedings and winding-up. The Public Finance Act. The law on legislation. The Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act. Law on the organisation and administration of courts. Law on the status and remuneration of judges. Law on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. The law on the local governments of Hungary; how this law is related to the previous ones. The Public Service Officers Act. The law on debt settlement for natural persons. Law on general rules for electronic administration and trust services. The Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing. The law on arbitration. The law on law enforcement. The Government Administration Act. Law amending individual laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures. The law on the protection of children and child care management and the civil code itself. [[20.30]] Once again, more than a hundred pieces of legislation have been amended in the same package in the submission of the IM. There is such a thing as salad law that it makes sense that if they regulate and modify things that can be logically linked to each other, it makes sense, so there may be such a connection to this thing, which is why this decision and procedural form was created, but this is not so. I will tell you some of the areas that we can support where appropriate, but I will tell you directly that there is, of course, an unacceptable number of elements in the package of proposals. Victim support has always been important to the MSZP. I have repeatedly said here in this debate that we are on the victim's side, so we consider all proposals and provisions to be eligible in a positive sense for victim support. According to the proposal, the investigating authority should inform the victim of the availability of victim support services and of both in-kind and material assistance available under victim support services. I think that this is certainly an eligible and positive change, if it were in a separate bill, we would obviously support it. The law on legislation is also amended in several places on a technical basis and in some places on a substantive basis. Here, too, we could find a good number of provisions that will obviously simplify administration and other provisions on publication, which could otherwise be forward-looking, it could also be that if it were regulated separately or discussed as a separate proposal. The amendment of the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act is not significant at first sight here, yet it shows that there is a very serious trust in the Office or person of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. I think that if we put here that we had discussed several hours here before about the abolition of the Equal Treatment Authority and I would once again stress that this was a serious point in the debate, too, it is very clear that this is a comprehensive, conceptual step on your part in strengthening the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. This is not only about the Commissioner's powers of governance, but also about leadership, so the administration of the Office would also be entrusted to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Obviously, the elimination, destruction and thus strengthening of the institution and person of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights of the Equal Treatment Authority is not acceptable to us in this form. We also stand for the full autonomy of the judicial system. There have been very serious steps backwards in this regard in recent years. These technical and detailed rules, which may be forward-looking, will not change. This proposal is not really separated from the amendment of the Fundamental Law, as it clearly fits into an ideological struggle on your part in the midst of the fight against the epidemic, because, of course, we are now in the ordinary session of the House and we are having a general debate, and my diagnosis is that by 2:00 a.m. some of my fellow Members and I will be around here in relation to some other proposals, as I see. We understand that, of course. But the claim that our work should be organised primarily for the control of the epidemic, I think it is true, and I also think that my fellow opposition Members would like to do everything they can to ensure that this defence is carried out effectively. I would like to say a number of these cases, on which you are making unacceptable proposals without consulting us. This proposal also includes such ones, for example, as regards restrictions on adoption, but in this respect, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély will continue to give the keynote speech of our group. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-196	Thank you. So I give the floor to Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, another lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of the amendment of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code, only spouses can adopt children in the future, except for adoption by relatives and parents' spouses. A further amendment to be incorporated by the proposal constitutes a ministerial contribution to adoption. On this basis, the suitability of a person wishing to adopt a single person for adoption may also be established in cases of particular appreciation. How exactly this will be done will not be opened by the further provisions of the proposal. I would very much have liked Minister Katalin Novak to be here and could have been asked questions about this. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I wish I could keep him from taking on such a responsibility. I would be very careful that, as a minister, he takes on this responsibility in one person, that he will decide in one person whether or not a single parent, a parent living in a partnership, or a couple belonging to an LGBTQ community can adopt him in Hungary. I do not know how you have looked into it, ladies and gentlemen, how we are in Hungary with adoption. Today, about a thousand children are adopted every year in Hungary, but there are about 2,700 children who are considered adopted. That's almost three times the number of people who actually get adopted. True, Gergely Gulyás had a statement, and I want to quote it precisely, Minister Gergely Gulyás said that there are more couples waiting for an adopted child than there are children who can be adopted in Hungary. You know, it's a net lie. No, no! The adoptable child is about 2,700 a year, compared with about 1,000 children adopted. Do you know why she can't be adopted? Because Hungarian couples want to adopt a child under three years of age. More than 55 percent of adopted children are over ten years of age, and I can even say that over 80 percent are children over three years of age, and about 6 percent, almost 7 percent are children with disabilities. And, you know, the law in force today says that the Hungarian adoption rules ignore the partners, only know married couples and singles, and include the partners among the single ones. People living in partnerships suffer more than one disadvantage. Only one will have a parent, and the other will not have a legal relationship with the child, and since the law requires that married couples be preferred, only a child can be given to partners who have been rejected by several couples before them. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Do you understand that? Today, more than 40 percent of families who have children live in partnerships in Hungary. Do you understand what we opposition representatives are saying? Being married doesn't make you a parent [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Not always, because, you know, there's gonna be foster kids who get into the state care system from marriage. What are we talking about? Even if a person is a partner or a divorced person or has never been married or married, he can still be a suitable parent! We have received a letter that describes a teacher who has been qualified as a teacher for 30 years (Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm: Yes!) He teaches hundreds of children a year, teaches thousands of children during his career, and you say he's unfit to be a parent because he can't adopt me from now on. Katalin Novak will decide whether it is suitable or not suitable. [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh!]] A person does not become a parent, Mr. Secretary of State, despite the fact that he has given birth to a child, that does not make him a parent, a mother, or a father. It's gonna take a lot more than that. [[20.40]] And you know what shocked me? But they didn't dare to write it, so they didn't think you guys had a problem with gay couples, by the way. So what did they do? They brand the partners, brand the singles, under the same hat. Besides, it's not that far from you. Still, they thought we should stop putting that in it, so let's write other groups. What do you have against divorced parents? What is it with you and your partners? I'm starting to feel like we're going back to the Middle Ages. We're not progressing, not XXI. The beginning of the century [[Nacsa Lawrence: Progression!]] We're going backwards. I'll listen to you, Congressman. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: God save you from that!]] You know, we don't talk much to these kids about how children are being ripped from families in Hungary today, and not because parents are not fit to raise them, but because of poverty. This would otherwise be prohibited by law in Hungary, and it still works. Or, let's say, they get in because they didn't stop the eviction. More than ten thousand evictions have occurred in Hungary in recent years. These kids are going into the state system with no cause for poverty. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you please, all I can ask is that you really think once in a while. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-198	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I'm really interested in is how you look in the mirror, dear MPs and ladies. How is it possible to begin with what we have said so many times today, and obviously we will say all week, that, while the second wave of the plague rages, a hundred of our fellow citizens die every day... [[Turning to Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Yes, Congressman, unfortunately, the total number of people who have died is over 3000, and there are over 100,000 people who have been infected. And this summer, when you could have been prepared to deal with this situation, you did absolutely nothing. And now, when the system seems to fall, we're obviously experiencing the biggest economic crisis in the last thirty years, they're going to start a panic control. And what do they do? How does the Orbán government handle the epidemic? He's breaking a law that eliminates the possibility of adoption for single people. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] He's handling it by eliminating the Equal Treatment Authority. This is an epidemic, according to you. In Hungary today, in the days of panic control, this is how you deal with the epidemic. This is not about testing everyone for free, like Slovakia does. Or I could tell you the many, many, many, many better measures that have been mentioned, my fellow opposition Members, we have also proposed a great deal, and you, even if you look at Austria, could name such measures. Is that what this government does? No. It's like that, so to speak, he's coming here with fake proposals, all because he wants to win this game politically so that he can't handle the epidemic, he can't handle the economic crisis, but then we create a mood, we pick on certain social groups again, and we move against what we've tried so many times, and we create a mood. But let's see what this proposal is really about; I swear, I will only highlight two parts of it, even though it could be a hundred. In front of me, I've been told that, as usual, the government is doing what they do to put together a great salad law, so we call it knot-knot inappropriate or incompatible or very difficult to match, I'd say. We know the trick in this one, too. There may be one out of a hundred amendments that we may be able to support with a good heart, but there are 99 scandals in addition to it that there is no god to vote for the law. So I'm gonna shoot the joke, and in the end, of course, it's not gonna happen right now. But you consciously apply this technique, precisely so that the whip and honey are in one law at a time, in case any opposition party or congressman slips on it, or you will explain it to the public. I was talking about the epidemic, about the introduction of a large salad law in the case of an epidemic, that Congressman Vejkey had for minutes only listed the laws that this proposal amends. We looked into the fact that the laws concerning the courts were amended this year as early as March, July and October. Maybe something will work out even in December, because if it's in your interest and in your time, you can deal with it, not with the CDC. What do we see? I'm telling you, I'm pointing out two things. One is that the President of the Curia, that he is not, is given extra licenses, as in his future president. We have said it a thousand times, we must say it again: of course, the country-world knows that the President of the Curia is Polt Péter 2. He's basically the man who's gonna control things manually with Fidesz. Congressman Nacsa, no matter how much he shakes his head, we've said this a thousand times and a thousand ways, we've told him, we've informed him, we've written it down. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That doesn't make it true!]] We've proven it, and that's still the case. That's the thing. The Grinding of the Curia was the overture of this autumn, and we can see that we have now made it to the Grinding of the Equal Treatment Authority. Of course, this is also included in this bill, strengthening only the President of the Curia close to Fidesz. Obviously, he will serve the position you gave him. The other big issue that many of my fellow Members have mentioned before is the reregulation of certain adoptions. It is very difficult to start by taking this topic professionally and by making the arguments that many people have made before me. So the fact that professionals have so far decided in a regulated form who is fit to adopt and who is not, but we are putting it aside now, and the Minister alone, by her hand, decides to exercise such a kind right and allows singles or at least unmarried people to do so would be outrageous, in itself, if it were only for this proposal. But you've gone further than that. They went on, because with this proposal they threw away the possibility of adopting people living in partnerships, throwing out single people who are not members of the LGBTQ community. Of course, we all know that, in fact, the intention is to avoid adoption by gays, members of the LGBTQ community. For this reason, it was even sacrificed on the altar that some 40 percent of those living in a partnership in Hungary make it difficult to adopt couples and even singles who are not members of LGBTQ. They play it consciously. They know it's the result. Don't get me wrong, I've written myself down that I'm going to ask you to do this, that you have a background study on how the system so far doesn't work, or that you have any expert opinions on it. Of course, there is no, there is no attachment, there is no attachment, it is simply intended to carry on the mood and the arousal that has started against a specific, well-defined social group. He started out in the summer, so-called Article 33 with a similar salad law, and now he's going on with it. This is the essence of your panic management: we make enemies, then we sew all sorts of measures to ensure that this is well addressed by the honourable voter, not by how and how he or his relatives are cared for in hospitals, or by the government, he or she is not prepared for the epidemic measures. Let me finally say something personal. My partner, indeed, was raised in an institution, and indeed, he was adopted. He could tell us how this happened at an absolute close range. Yes, a single lady adopted him 20 years ago, including him and his two brothers. It was thanks to him that he didn't get lost, but he graduated from college and university, and he became an absolutely useful member of society to put it in such a weird way. This will no longer be possible today, thanks to you. It won't be possible. What they said before... [[Nacsa Lawrence: Why not?]] Or Katalin Novak's favor will make it feasible. I'm glad to congratulate you. The fact is, the singles have been standing at the end of the line, so to speak. I'll tell you how the system works, because I thought I'd adopt a child myself. [[20.50]] Yeah, well, it looks like the spouses are coming down first, so I'm gonna say the nasty thing about the kid who's about to be adopted, and when the only couple that wants to adopt doesn't ask for that baby, then the singles are gonna come. And I will also tell you that there are many more children in institutions and many more children awaiting adoption than are couples or singles who want adoption, because a large part of the children awaiting adoption are of Roma origin. And yes, we know that it is possible to indicate on the adoption form if our fellow citizen does not want to adopt a disabled person or perhaps a ruin, and many do. So they get lost thinking that in any way they have enjoyed an advantage or that the singles have been in a good position in the current system, in the adoption system that has worked so far, because they have not. I'm telling you, even though they were in an emotional community, they were financially in order, and it was still only a chance after married couples, and it came up to them to adopt me at all. Now, you guys are gonna cancel this. I understand you're going to say that no, well, sitting in Katalin Novak's ministerial office, he's obviously going to decide how and how, and good for the child with that single or cohabitant, that's ridiculous if I want it to be dramatic. It is dramatic that we are here, as one of my fellow Members said, that we are practically going back to the Middle Ages. They congratulate you on your suggestion that this is what we have here, that this is what we are dealing with during an epidemic. Of course, DK will not support this, of course it will not vote for it; there is no God! Thank you.
u2020-11-17-200	Thank you. I now give the floor to Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, let me respond to President Vejkey here in connection with the emergency and the functioning of Parliament, because he is bringing this up for the second time, and this is the usual fidesz way of putting it into our mouths what we think, which is, of course, completely untrue and far from the truth. So once again, let us clarify the role of Parliament in this emergency. Our problem is not that Parliament works, and we have to work. So this lie, it would be nice if they stopped saying it all the time. Our problem is that we should be discussing the various proposals on emergency situations here; that we should also discuss, obviously, the measures that you have taken in the course of regulation governance after it has obviously been made. After all, we do not deny that it is very necessary to take these measures quickly, but then it is possible to attach them back to the Parliament, to discuss these proposals, to give you feedback. We suggest that we talk about these things. This is one part of it, I hope, that we have now understood, because it seems to be going very slowly to understand it. And the other half is that I don't know, but the fact that it doesn't hurt the sense of the justice committee president's rights is kind of weird. While there is an emergency, you are taking the type of measures that may cause serious opposition in certain social groups, and while during the emergency, otherwise, the right of assembly is limited, for example, this position cannot be expressed here in front of Parliament and protested. So you're taking advantage of the emergency situation and you're making these very difficult proposals, and you're using it to make sure that different social groups, who would otherwise express their opinion, are unable to do so. Well, if that doesn't hurt your sense of right, then I'm very sorry. Well, that's it. As far as the bill is concerned, it contains eligible elements, as Csaba Gyüre mentioned, obviously the social and funeral benefits of retired employees in relation to victim support, these and obviously some minor corrections could be absolutely supported. But there are two very serious things in there that we're not gonna be able to support this salad law. Yeah, we're pretty critical of the expansion of the legal unit council here, and, uh, the adoption part, which is the most critical part. Anyway, I don't fully understand or understand, and I'll tell you why I think they're changing it, but I can't quite see why you have to touch it right now. Because the adoption system is actually starting to work. So the adoption numbers are growing, they've been growing since 2017, so finally something positive is happening under the Orbán government. One in ten adoptive parents was single or single, so I'm sorry, so it's growing. By the way, many people who are single adopt because they can't find a proper mate and want to start a family. So there are a lot of people whose business is being made difficult in this regard. Now, as I understand it, your proposal is actually about the government's organs deciding which single person can become a parent. I understand that Katalin Novak is the only one who will decide on some requests. I am sure that you will explain, Mr Secretary, how this will work, how the Minister will decide. But the most frightening thing about this proposal is that, as many opposition representatives have already mentioned here, it seems to me that you are on the altar of your ideology, in Hungarian: in order not to allow a gay person to adopt a child, they are able to sacrifice the future of children and those who would not adopt a child as gay. I understand this is what's happening. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes!]] Okay, well, I'm sure Congressman Nacsa will disprove me, and I'll be curious. There's an ideological step behind this, which will result in a person not being gay, but he wants to adopt, but he won't be able to, because they might think he is. And then I don't know how they're gonna check this out, and then we're gonna have a methodology for checking it out. [[Nacha Lawrence: Oh, my God!]] Defining who doesn't qualify as a parent should, of course, rest on professional grounds, and not on the basis of who fits into your worldview. It doesn't depend on who's a good parent. Obviously, that's our party's position. Obviously, we don't judge family in the same way. We think that family is a place where you get love, you respect people, you have a relationship with people, not what you set up. However, there are a number of questions: were there any specific cases where the adopted child was in the wrong place? Why do you think a gay couple or a gay couple is in a worse place than a single parent? Can you give us such examples? How do you support this current bill? I would also like to know, according to what criteria Katalin Novak will decide about the single adoptives here? How are you gonna check it out? If that's the point here, because obviously the goal is just I don't know why they don't want to put it openly in a bill so gay couples don't adopt me, then how are they gonna check it out? Really, I'm curious. Madam Secretary, will you go to an environmental study and see who you are living with? It's really amazing, but I'm looking forward to an explanation. What I'm sure you and I agree on is that every child must grow up in a family environment, in loving care. We don't have a fight about this. However, we believe that in order to achieve this, we need more stringent controls, a proper system of professionalism, an increase in the role of the guardianship office, more environmental studies, the involvement of psychologists and sociologists. This is to protect children, not from such ideology with a drunken proposal, and not by putting this decision to the Minister. What they brought earlier, by the way, I just have to add, is that, for example, the course has been canceled, and this does not point in the direction of professionalism. [[21.00]] After all, we have received feedback from several adoptive parents that it was a rather useful course, not only from the point of view of learning a lot, but from the fact that they have already started to socialize in what it is like to be a parent and what challenges and tasks it brings. This proposal seems to be making even more of a bad step in the direction that does not lead to professionalism. So I look forward to the explanation, but I am quite sure that this proposal, in this form, cannot be supported by the Dialogue faction. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-11-17-202	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Varga-Damm Andrea.
u2020-11-17-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13648. The proposal amends 22 laws through paragraph 103. In fact, most of it is a technical amendment, and since my fellow Members have discussed a number of elements of the proposal in great detail, I do not wish to respond in particular at this time. With regard to notaries, the subject is to amend the appointing system or rethink certain administrative rules. I do not want to deal with them very much, as long as the Ministry does not regulate notaries in the case of foreign exchange credit, because it is amazing what they do with their notaries in a way that abuses official authority. The effectiveness of victim support is a welcome proposal, and it is indeed increasingly necessary that victims of crime really have effective help. With regard to the complaint on the legal unit, I fully join the statements made by my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre. It is specifically intended to go to the Curia legislature, or that, in addition to the specific circumstances, the lower courts will not be able to make a fair decision in a single-level procedure, but to be led by the Curia, and to be completely dependent on the thinking of the Curia on the judges in the district courts. The issue of adoption is a very prominent part of the proposal. Most of all, I would like to talk about this, simply because I have done several legal work of adoption during my profession as a lawyer, so I was on both sides, children's sides, birth and office. Whoever made this proposal has never been involved in such a process in his life, and if there was an accident among those who were involved and should be ashamed of themselves! I would first like to talk about the issues of law-dogmatics. The Civil Code is the institution of adoption in the Fourth Book 119. from § 131. He's talking about it until the end of the day. These 13 paragraphs form a fully interlinked system, one section refers to the other, and the following sections are based on the legislative texts that lay down the basic principles of the legal principles of adoption. Compared to this, this proposal, like the elephant in the porcelain shop, hits 121. It establishes a new paragraph (1) there, except that it does not harmonise this new provision with the other rules. In this way, it creates a completely incoherent set of rules, and I'll tell you why. While the new 121. § 2 says that the possibility of adoption may exceptionally be identified as a single parent, compared with the following legal instruments provide for the adoption of a single parent. So he's gonna put it on a permit as an opportunity, and then the legislative bodies are gonna talk about it like it's an evidence. Make me look. I hope that the Legislative Committee will be as brave as it usually is to have virtually three quarters of the proposals corrected by 120 points, letter error, legal error, terminological error, and the rest, and I hope that if the government does not, at least the Legislative Committee will correct this. Because law enforcement will be completely confused because it does not fit this new paragraph into the whole system, which is listed there. The proposal says that only spouses can adopt you. Yeah. The fact that children who are to be adopted are replaced by the institution of adoption is the loss of natural parents. In fact, adoption must be made from the perspective of children to establish a system of adoption. And what do we want to achieve? That the child's lost two parents, who created him, will be replaced by adoption. But what I don't understand is why this requires a marriage bond. Because a marriage bond is not about emotion in itself, because you can live with emotions without the institution of marriage. Marriage is a legal bond. Marriage is indeed emotional, indeed, with the aim of procreation, but, in principle, whether you like it or not, my fellow Members are the legal bond of marriage. And love is not the foundation, it is not the foundation of the covenant. It's a legal bond. Just because your ideological ancestors considered marriages essentially of interest. That's right. That's right. For those who were examples and examples in history themselves, marriage was primarily a bond of interest and, secondly, an emotional bond. Let's take a look around the literature. Fortunately, in the modern world, the institution of marriage is much more pronounced and even in law it is an emotional bond, but not an exclusive bond. The partnership is also an emotional bond, and those two people live together at the moment, according to you, a woman and a man, and no one has the right to override the way in which two people living together on an emotional basis are defined by a legal bond. There must be only one aspect: it is capable of adopting a child to be a parent to that child. This is the only thing anyone can require in this system, because it is in the child's interest not to get married to people, but to replace the creators given by nature by the institution of adoption. I'm shocked by the 25-year-old minimum age for adoption. You know our fellow politician, who turned out to be 21, that he could never have children, knew when he was 21. Why should we wait until he is 25, especially if he is getting married to adopt a child? Isn't that a serious question? If you can have a baby when you're a teenager, why do you have to wait until you're 25 when you can't have a child as a result of nature or as a result of your illness? The following is: older than 45 years; yes, we know, it is understandable, they want children to enjoy having parents as long as possible, so that they may not lose their parents before their age. And here comes the question of uniques that can be determined. I'm sorry, I don't mean to offend anyone, but I don't think that either Minister Katalin Novak or any other minister can decide that question. Not because he's not fit, but because I don't think that's how it's supposed to happen. If there is a social services system, where there are professionals, there are experts, there are reviewers of the circumstances where they would take the child, there is a serious, established administrative body with every particular gift, competence, every legal authority, why shouldn't they decide that a single person can adopt a child? I don't get it! I don't think any of us in this group of 199 have the right to decide whether or not to be adopted by a single person. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not our decision.]] I don't think so. [[21.10]] The next question: in the '90s, I will tell you that one of my fellow Members rightly said that the adoption system was similar to that which you now want to return to. So there was an improvement, and now we're actually going back in history. The biggest problem is that you are now in the same position as the institution of open and secret adoption. While we are talking about secret adoption, it is created in the state's organizational system that there is a child who has lost his parents and can be adopted, and there is a process, a process of office, where the office actually replaces the organization who can assess that the person who intends to adopt him is qualified. But there's the institution for open adoption. How does anyone take the liberty of having a child, not deciding who they trust, who can raise him instead, because he can't raise him, because he is in a position to know that the child, unfortunately, couldn't live the development that that child deserves in every way? And he says he's found a single person, a married couple, a cohabitant, or even two people of the same sex who live together. Where does anyone here take the courage as legislator to take away the right of the birth mother to decide who she trusts? And I'm sorry, but I'd trust the possibility of adopting two couples of the same sex who have lived harmoniously for decades more than I would trust those who pretend to live in a wonderful harmony in front of the office, while their neighbors know that they're constantly fighting, with respect, because no one can see into their everyday lives. You can do field visits every single day, look at their circumstances, ask about them, do anything, but no one can judge as an outsider how a couple lives and is really qualified to raise that child. And when there's a man, the birth mother, who has a way, because he realizes that it's better for his child, that he chooses a family for the child, and that right is taken away from him, I can't accept that. And I'll tell you one more thing. In the 1990s, when there were also hypocritically restrictive rules, the following was the way to resolve this issue. One way was to make a full-fledged father's approval statement when there was an open adoption, and it was not an adoption procedure, but it was chosen by a non-marriage parent woman, to whom she wanted to adopt the child, and then the man left, admitted the child, and the matter was taken care of, no one has the right to overrule it. The other way is what? The other method will be to believe that those who want to have a child will somehow be a result of a sexual act by a woman who will carry the child and then have a father's approval declaration and then place the child with the father, and after a while the father's mate will ask for adoption, since they have been certified as a family for years, and the dog will not be able to refuse them. So what are you forcing society to do? They force society to achieve the noble goal of replacing a child with a loving family, and they will have to use the law to circumvent it, and you will not be able to do anything about it. And then it will be that family members are carrying children, because everyone will figure it out, believe me, because Hungarian people are creative. And compared to that, we're here, trying to play God, and just so couples of the same sex can't adopt a child, they're transforming the entire legal system. And let me tell you one more thing: let's not be hypocrites. No one wants to adopt children from certain social groups, and you know it. The adoptive white parents almost order them to be blond, blue - eyed, or white, brown - haired, brown - eyeed. So today in Hungary, white adoptive parents do not want to adopt Gypsy children, and after having many children, Gypsy children in foster homes or foster parents as eighth and ninth children... 'Cause don't forget there's a foster system where they give children to seventh, eighth, ninth children. Tell me how important that child is in that family. I'm not sure it's important at all. If we're lucky, if we're lucky. You have a wonderful life, but that's not typical. So I'm asking you to get back on the ground, not play God, and have one starting point for this question: what's the child's interest? And you won't be the one to say it, but life will determine it, the personality, goals, soul, love for children, position in society, world view, culture, and not the fact that a woman and a man lived in marriage. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-204	Thank you. I give the floor to Nacha Lawrence, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Much of the bill has been spoken of by the Secretary of State and my fellow Members with Fideszes-KDNP, but there has been a debate here, and there have been such inability claims from my fellow opposition Members, especially from Kocsis-Cake Olivio, László Sebian-Petrovszki and Andrea Varga-Damm, which I think are worth responding to. I would point out that I do not think it right for a woman with a law degree in Parliament to speak in a speech to citizens about how to bypass legislation. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: They know that!]] Congresswoman claims that you know this, I believe that even if a Member of Parliament, in a public speech, reveals the possibilities of circumventing the law to citizens, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's how they do it all the time.]] That's not a good attitude. I just want to make that clear before I get started on what I'm saying. I do not think that it is the right and the right and the right behaviour to follow, as the congresswoman has shown. Let's just say, in this matter, you talked about everything, but you didn't talk about one thing: the child. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, you can. That's all I'm talking about!]] The best interests of the child here [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: I was talking about the children!]] For us, the children are the first. We want every child, every child anyway, and for this purpose we have taken very, very many steps over the last ten years, to grow up as many children as possible in families. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: That's why you're narrowing it down now!]] Grow up in a family. That's why we strengthened the foster system that Andrea Varga-Damm scolded. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Seventh, eighth child!]] 'Cause you're scolding foster parents here, Varga-Damm Andrea. He claims they can't take care of the second child. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes!]] I challenge myself on behalf of those foster parents who do hard work and do useful work for society and the children who live there as foster parents. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: See how many...]] What the Fidesz-KDNP government has estimated, by the way, is that it has turned it into work relations, that it has increased their salary and, by the way, it is constantly helping them. In many places, foster - parent networks have also become ecclesiastical in recent times. I think it is wrong for Congresswoman Varga-Damm to hit the foster parents, and it is not right for her to say that a seventh child cannot be given enough attention. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Well, Congresswoman, how many families have there been in the past centuries where there were five, six, eight, ten children? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: My wife was only at home!]] And you claim... In my family, among my ancestors, I can show you these things, and you claim [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] That there wasn't enough time for those children, my great-grandfather or your great-grandmother (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervened.) I didn't get enough attention. Congresswoman, I've listened to you. You're saying I can't get enough attention, and I'm asking myself that. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, it's true!]] And I think parents who raise five-six-seven-eight-ten children ask for it because they have the same love, the same attention to each of their children. In the Congresswoman's world, they may be privileged with children, one of them, but I think that it is right and normal to have so many children, that everyone has the same love for all their children, and that is why they are obviously trying to create an upbringing and a family environment within human frameworks. You have acknowledged that in recent years the adoption system has continuously improved and has become much, much better. Why? It's gotten much faster, and we've broken down a lot of bureaucratic obstacles in recent years. The last time we discussed, perhaps in May and June, a bill that accelerates adoption and simplifies bureaucratic obstacles, was adopted by a very large majority in the House, so you also acknowledge the government's efforts and achievements in this respect. We also see that more children are adopted year after year. [[21.20]] Here I must correct László Sebian-Petrovszki for factual error, because there are still more adoptive parents in Hungary than there are children to adopt. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: It's not true! That's not true. Actually, it's not true.]] There's more. Look at the data, Congressman. In 2016, this trend turned out to be different. Thank God that we are here now, and yes, I think that, since the child's best choice is to live in a family, this should be taken into account. We think every child has a right to a father and a mother. And Congressman Kocsis-Cake is acting like he doesn't know the system. Maybe you don't know him. It's not up to Minister Katalin Novak to decide. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I need the Minister's permission.]] And Congresswoman Varga-Damm: it is not one hundred and ninety-nine of us who decide who, but there is a territorial child protection service, there are child protection services, there are professionals with a large number of professionals, because the process of adoption, environmental studies, the general medical examination, the examination of the dots, otherwise the various studies, discussions, psychological fitness are not decided in the ministry, it is not decided in Parliament, it is not decided in the parliamentary groups, but it is decided by professionals, honourable Member. How many powers are there in Hungary today where the minister's signature is required after expert recommendations and expert opinions have been received? [[Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and László Sebian-Petrovszki intervene.]] That's why it's completely false and completely unnecessary to be in the mood to say that a family minister in one's office will decide to put the seal on one of these papers. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] No, you'll decide that on the recommendation of the professionals. After several rounds of consultation, personal conversations, GP, psychological competence, environmental studies, and I could go through the process of adoption. I see that you are not receptive to the facts to tell you the process of adoption, and this is how an adoption takes place in Hungary. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] I'm sorry that you don't care about the facts, that you don't care about the adoption process. And it also hurts me to get kicked by child protection professionals who do this work conscientiously, day after day. Because that's right, fellow Members. These child protection professionals do their work in Hungary with high quality, professional skills and competence. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, that the staff of Dog and Child Protection Services are being humiliated. We also see that the number of marriages is constantly increasing and that the marriage is renaissanced in Hungary. It hasn't been as high since 1991 as it was last year. We don't have any results from this year. Even during the corona virus epidemic, [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Even under closure and restrictions, the number of marriages increased by 3 percent this year in the first 8 months, when married couples faced many restrictions. 65,268 marriages were made last year. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] Congressman, I've been listening to you. I think that this is a huge achievement, this is a social shift. If you look at the four figures of how much the number of marriages has increased in the last ten years, how much the number of divorces has decreased, how much the fertility rate has increased and how much the number of abortions has decreased, then out of these four numbers, of these four results that are still not good, we are still not where we should be, but from these four numbers it comes out that there has been a family-friendly turn, there has been a social shift, there has been a change in public thinking, and I think that is the point here. Congressman, I'm asking you, have you ever read any of Mary Kopp's relevant studies? He probably didn't read it. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Imagine, yes! Yes, you can.]] He probably didn't read it. You better read it, Congressman, because Mary Kopp described exactly how stable a marriage is, how stable it is for a child, how much a stable marriage can give him, how important it is for him to prosper, and we see, honourable Member, I am not happy about it, but this is still the statistical figure that within the first five years, every third of the partnerships will break up, while only one out of ten and nine of the marriages remain. [[Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and László Sebian-Petrovszki intervene.]] Much more partnerships break up at the beginning of the relationship. What do children need? That is why I say that you are not approaching this issue from the child, but this is the only possible approach: the child needs to be placed in a stable, loving environment. It is clear that this form is mostly and, of course, here we are talking about the law of big numbers, there are exceptions, but this form is mostly marriage in Hungary today; marriage of a man and a woman. This is the marriage in Hungary. And the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that it is always in the best interests of the child in this regard, who has stability, who needs calmness, who needs development, who needs love. And I'm sorry that Varga-Damm Andrea's marriage is just a legal bond. In this respect, with the same logic, you could also say that adoption is just a legal bond. No! A love relationship, honourable Member. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] Don't be so cruel. Don't be so cruel to the world and to the spouses, to the marriages, and, by the way, to the parent-child relationship. It may not be legally binding that it is also in (c), (d), (e) or somewhere at the end of the line, primarily a relationship of love, a community. And we think that family is the cornerstone of society, family is the component of society, and every child has the right to a father and a mother. And all of our decisions, all of our decisions that belong to family policy, the foster parents, the social sector, the adoptions, all of our decisions should help to make as many children as possible in families, and it is therefore a very big thing that over the past ten years, the number of people who have reached the age of 12 in the institutions, because they have been able to get out to foster families. This breakthrough is a huge thing in the child protection system. This is the way to go, so that every child, as many children as possible, can come into a family. And adoption is one of the tools. It is not true, in fact, what László Sebian-Petrovski said at the beginning of his speech when he said that single people can no longer adopt me. As a representative of DK, I am not surprised that you are lying, but you said that you are not allowed to adopt a single person anymore. That's the spirit, Mr. Congressman. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: That's the situation!]] That's the mood on the social media, on TV, on the radio, in online newspapers, when you pick out a sentence, and that's not true. It is not true that a single person cannot adopt me in the future. We prefer marriage, we do it right, the best way of life to raise a child, and I'm not saying that there are no others, it's the best. All research, happiness research, family research support this, but don't say that you can't be adopted by a single person anymore. Because that's factually not true. Just as my colleague Kocsis-Cake blamed Imre Vejkey for telling me how the fight against the epidemic and the functioning of the Parliament and the functioning of the government are separated, but that is exactly what László Sebian-Petrovsk asked us to discuss during the pandemic. The Parliament is meeting on a regular schedule, and this law has nothing to do with the epidemic, because the epidemiological defense is currently in the government. Last Tuesday, with your votes, we voted that the government is in charge of the control of the epidemic. The government has been given the necessary authority to do so, and the Parliament is in operation and will meet and discuss the legislative proposals contained in the Parliament's autumn meeting plan. What's the problem? Don't you want to work? What's the problem? We're going on a regular legislative schedule. And it is very right that we can also negotiate such laws, and laws such as the ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law in the coming days, for example, and the rest, where, by the way, quite rightly, there are sentences that are also related to the adoption part of our current law; then I think that we will have enough debate about it tomorrow, I would not go into that now. What I would like to say to you in summary is that on such a question, I would ask you to look at the interests of children instead of creating moods and political cuts. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Stop it!]] Not your ideological beliefs. Did they tell you we were heading back to the Middle Ages? [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's right!]] Are you the children of progression? Are you apostles of progress? You tell me that you have the Philosopher's Stone, how this progressive world is going forward, and that is the only and super life form your liberal agenda dictates? Come on, fellow Members. Ideology. I understand this is an ideological battle for you. Look at the child's interests. Keep in mind the best interests of the child when talking about such things. Don't say sentences that a single person can't adopt from now on, because that's not true, and look at the interests of children when you're talking about it. That's all I'm asking for, because we do, and the reason this bill has been tabled is because Fidesz and the KDNP faction will vote in favour of this bill, I hope, and then more, but the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP will vote in favour of this bill because it is also in the interest of children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[21.30]]
u2020-11-17-206	I now address Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-207	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There's been a lot of talk, so I'm not sure what I'm saying is gonna be completely coherent. I'd rather react to a few things. I would like to say to Congressman Nacsa that the House is not operating according to a normal timetable, and the opposition has apparently made a huge mistake when it has agreed that the House should not operate on a regular schedule, because then you should be sitting here at each interpellation to vote in favour of accepting the response to the interpellation. So don't tell me this House works like it used to. You asked for it, and I think the opposition made a wrong contribution, and then you have the nerve to say that we don't want to work here. What do you think we're doing here at 9:00 tonight if we don't work? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We're here too!]] Yeah, there's four of 132 or 133 here. So let's just say, I know, in church, the priest can only stab those who are at Mass who have not gone, can not, can not, but, once again, I think more carefully with these statements, how fantastically normal the House works when the opposition has given up one of its strongest permissions to control you in some form, at least at the level of words in this House. That's one of them. I don't understand why I'm not the expert on this, but I've been listening to this debate, you tell me then, Secretary of State, why do you do it if it's not ideology for your part! Well, they said that everything will be the same as before: professionals will decide, anyone who wants to adopt in Hungary can adopt, then why do they want to change that? ! If everything worked out fantastically well so far, and it's going to work the same way now, there's only one small difference that the Minister will put the point at the end of the sentence, but with all due humility to what the experts have said to her, then why in God's name do I have to use that word to provoke you a little bit, tell me why do I need a politician in the end if it's a professional question? ! I agree with you, it's supposed to be about the kids, not anything else. Well, then, why on earth would a politician have to do that by the end of the day? Those excellent professionals you've been talking about, they can't decide, do they need to end up with Katalin Novak as a superior self, who decides that he made the right decision by the professionals? Or why does it have to be? Well, it's because they're making politics out of it because they're making an ideology out of it and how the house doesn't break down, that you're accusing us of it! [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's right!]] I'm not accusing you of that, because all government measures come out of conviction, politics, values, there's nothing wrong with that. Yes, we have different views on family, for example. You're saying or you're saying that it's just a family where there's a marriage. Why is it only a family where there's a marriage? A legal document that changes the love between two people? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Well, not at all. Sorry, Secretary of State, we're talking about looking at the children, not talking about legal terminology, because that's what you just asked me to do on Varga-Damm Andrea. I'm not talking about legal terminology, I'm not a lawyer, I can't approach it that way, and I don't want to approach that question in a way that is legally, dogmatically, what the concept of marriage means. I don't care. I'm interested in the fact that two people can raise a child in a loving environment without a document. That's what I'm saying, and yes, we really think something else than what you think. At the same time, Congressman Nacsa is right, and I think those who disagreed with him are wrong. It is true that if a child is one or two or three in a marriage, it is more difficult for people to divorce, but it is difficult for them to divorce because they want to wait for the child to grow up until the age of 14-18, depending on the fact that it is true that those who are married and have one or two or three children, are, in fact, more difficult to divorce or not to divorce in recent years, so it is true that the proportion of these children has decreased. But, please, I apologize, the child here stabilizes the marriage. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] It's not the marriage of the child! [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's right!]] It's not that they stay together because they love each other, it's because they don't want to mess with the kid. This does not necessarily mean that that child grows up in a fantastically caring and loving environment, that he may otherwise suffer from an unfortunate child, that the two parents misinterpret what is in the child's interest; I do not know, there is certainly such a case and a situation. So what I'm trying to say to you is, if you're so... For example, tell me why, if marriage is so important, they do not allow gay couples to get married. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Well, that would be the logical conclusion. If marriage is such an important sacral thing, then I think it would be worth thinking about giving gay couples the opportunity to get married, because then we will solve this problem, I think. What I see is that you have three proposals now, one of which is the Equal Treatment Authority, and the other, this bill on current judicial issues, which is incorporated into the adoption, and, as you have already mentioned, the amendment of the Constitution, which represents a very clear political ideology, we do not deal with this in this House for anything else. Now, I don't know if Dóra Dúró has been assigned by you, or if Dóra Dúró is giving you an assignment, I don't know, both of them sound bad, but it's just that you and our party have sung this topic here, and now you're here to solve this upset social problem, and you're here to answer this question. Well, let's be honest. The question is nothing more than a search for an enemy image, now that migrants are starting to drown out, then we need to find something else, now they have found this LGBTQ community, they have found this gender view, and now they are fighting it, and the last time they said that we are fighting something, when you are doing nothing but drawing new images of enemies on Parliament's wall from one day to the next. Well, that's what this is about. And it's very clear that this comes from ideology. A conservative ideology is actually what they want to put down. But then don't ask us that we think that we can think differently about family, that we can think differently about marriage and that we can think differently about adoption on the basis of the fact that we are also looking at the interests of the child on this issue. What I see is that the world has changed, so while you announced the end result, that the number of marriages is increasing, and then this will be an eternal trend in Hungary. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] I would like to remind you that last time you announced that there are more and more newborn children in Hungary, and how fantastic the statistics are, and then for one year it was true, the next one was not, so you have to be careful when you want to draw long-term trends from a year's experience. Basically, what you can see is that, in a 20-30-year-old perspective, marriage has become less trendy or less practice, perhaps that's the right word, and indeed, there are a lot of couples who live together without marriage papers, and now you can argue that it is 40 percent or 39 or 38 this year compared to the previous one, just so that if there were such a debate next year, it would be 42! So I think that the world has changed, and indeed it is worth adapting to this changed world, while it has also become easier to divorce in recent times. The other, and Andrea Varga-Damm, has already pointed out that I have read the articles and the various analyses carefully, I am interested in this subject, and I see that it will not actually achieve its purpose, if I put myself in your shoes or look at it from your point of view, so it is pointless even from here, and therefore again this vector points back to the same point that this is a political campaign. Do you always say that anger or what do you say? mood swings. Well, I think it's possible to say to you that you guys are always in the mood, so that you can fight with something all the time, because there's a loophole to avoid this by people you're trying to exclude from this opportunity, or who want to make adoption of children as difficult as possible. Well, if you do not achieve any result with it, otherwise everything will work the way it has been before, then it really doesn't make any sense in terms of the content of this law unless it has a political purpose. And I think that with this law, the amendment of the Constitution and the pledging of the Equal Treatment Authority, you have political goals, you have nothing to do with the child and the child's well-being, I think it is quite clear and quite clear to everyone. You are right about that, and I also believe that a child can be loved or not loved in the same way as five and six and seven, so in this, I think that he has truth; that is why it is worth paying attention to the fact that we are really looking at this issue only from the point of view of children. [[21.40]] And once again, in closing, I would say that we should put aside the reference that we want to kick child protection experts and professionals and insult those people! We're not insulting anyone! We are very keen on kicking you and insulting you so that we can at least have some impact by considering at least considering the aspects that the opposition is putting on any bill, because in many cases this parliamentary operation will become a deaf dialogue. By the way, such debates are more enjoyable because there are argument systems or at least opinions that are colliding here, and I thank you once again for the participation of all those pro-government Members who are involved in this. Somewhere Parliament should be talking about something like this, with different opinions, even violently sometimes, even too intensely, or perhaps with unpleasant consequences, it should be about something crystallizing in these debates. We are not here yet, but today at least one or two of these issues could have a substantive debate on one or two laws, even if we agreed to disagree at the very least. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-208	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-11-17-209	Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this proposal has been tabled by the representatives of the government because they know precisely that there is, unfortunately, a large enough social layer in Hungary, who feel an intense hatred for our fellow citizens who love the same sexes, whether openly or quietly. Unfortunately, usually that's because you have to hate someone or hate someone. In order to demonstrate to you what seeds of hate the germs have created, and what offspring they have created, I would like to present you with a very recent news. And this is the question of the registrar's election of the notary of Budakalas. Perhaps more people have heard of this: there has been a vacancy in Budakalas, and a young man, who I thought I emphasized, thought the notary was a homosexual. There were recordings, and the press brought this down. The notary says the following: I would like to say that I will not say the nasty words, but replace them with a milder word, because very nasty words sound on the recording - : We have been thinking about what to do. We called to tell him that we had a choice. But I just found out a quarter of an hour ago that I had a good feeling, says the notary of Budakalas, who was also troubled by the fact that he was intelligent, which, as he said, even worse, raises other questions to me. We've come this far! This notary, Ferenc Deák, even bears the name of our wonderful historical personality, well, that's a freak of life, and I'm not going to say the nasty word he said, "I hate these... men, I'm mad at them by default." It's a notary, please, in a city! The notary also noticed that the applicant had made several registered partnerships at his former workplace, which is the job of the registrar, and that this prospective registrar was not worthy of the fact that the partners registered at the previous place of employment were required, saying:, We are not going to do this here, because we are not appointed to do so, thank God. He even takes the name of God into his mouth when he talks about hatred! My fellow Christian Democrats, are you listening? According to the recording, the notary feared that it would give them a bad look if the whispering propaganda started, that they had only found a homosexual in the place of the outgoing registry, because, as you said, Budakalas is conservative. Please, where are we? Here we go. We are talking about a city in the immediate vicinity of Budapest! The recording also shows that the notary is thinking out loud about the fact that the solution to the situation could be to get the outgoing registrar to stay for a while, to tell him that there is no common agreement now, and that until then, the new candidate, considered a homosexual, will be somewhere else. Listen to this phrase:....we tell the guy that we're sorry, he's the registrar. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Although not everyone agreed that sexual orientation would provide a basis for rejection at the time of the decision, the fact is that the young man did not get the job and a new application was announced. You have brought Hungarian society to this point that such phenomena can be at all! It doesn't matter about skills, it doesn't matter about intelligence, it doesn't matter that someone does their job fairly, but a notary can make decisions and represent such spirituality in this way! Then what do we expect from the simpler sections of society, who only learn from propaganda? ! So, with all due respect, I would ask you to consider this threesome, the elimination of the Equal Treatment Authority, the downfall of the adoption rules and tomorrow the completely insane submission of the fundamental law amendment, because they are turning Hungarian society into a very bad path! So it will not be patience, understanding, solidarity, love, but it will always be that there is someone to hate, because it will answer the individual why his life is unfortunate. It's not gonna be a good way. This kind of spirituality will be a terrible social problem. I'm asking you to turn back from this road, because usually this kind of process always backfires, and it always ends in a boomerang. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-210	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey of KDNP for a two-minute speech.
u2020-11-17-211	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this bill is also a matter of cheering up on the part of the left-wing parties. There is nothing more evidence of this than that they are declaring themselves contrary to the facts, and they are making a completely different case against the bill before us, and I could also say that they are extremely progressive. You are not looking at the interests of children, you are looking at their own interests, their own personal interests. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that I have to adjust my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, because the Parliament is working normally. I must also correct my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, with regard to the interpellation he has said. The left-wing factions have asked for immediate questions instead of interpellations. Why? Because interpellation, on the one hand, is a tied genre, and it has to be written in advance, which cannot be deviated, and on the other hand, it has to be submitted days earlier than the immediate question. The opposition factions have just said that in such a situation, when there is a pandemic, and when events happen extremely quickly, they are greatly affected by this, so to speak, by the fact that they could live on dusty events only with any kind of interpellation. Therefore, they raised it, not us, to be immediate questions instead of interpellation. So I had to correct this slide, and unfortunately, we heard such slippages in this debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-17-212	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to respond. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Luckily, in the debate, my fellow Members had a lot to do with each other, so I may not have to take this long. To what has been said in the debate: Mr Csaba Gyüre, my fellow Member, made comments on notaries, in fact on professional grounds. On the one hand, the assessment of notaries' applications and the loading of places in this form will be much more transparent than in the previous period. [[21.50]] The rules that will be drawn up will be in a form similar to that of the Bar Association. Again, they ensure that the notaries, regional and national, will operate on the basis of a more uniform, transparent system, so it will be much more transparent. My colleague Bangón is no longer here. She complained that the partners couldn't adopt me. According to previous regulations, there was no possibility for partners to adopt. There is a change in the adoption of singles, but fortunately my fellow Members have also discussed this properly. In the future, this can be decided by ministerial authority after appropriate administrative procedures, and in relation to relations, this is not necessary. My fellow Member Bangóné also mentioned that children are being taken away from many families, but I would add that they do not marry children because of poverty, but because of shortcomings in the education of children, for example, that they are not being cared for or that their education is at risk. That's when they're highlighted and placed in a protected environment. So this was a sort of slide. László Sebian-Petrovski made excuses referring to the epidemic situation. My fellow Members have also answered these questions. So by giving the government the defence for 90 days, Parliament is practically able to negotiate the laws in the normal course of action. That's what's going on inside the House right now. There were also indications of percentages that one third of the partnerships will break up within five years, and this is less than 10% in the case of marriages. So much for adoption data, that in 2019 there was 93.2 percent of the children adopted by married couples, and 6.7 percent were single, of which 0.4 percent were male. I am mentioning this because you mentioned, too, that he had such attempts and thought. A national system is being created in the new system, so married couples can adopt with large territorial differences. They're obviously running this system first, not just on a territorial basis. Attila Mesterházy had comments about the family. I think the Fundamental Law has been known for quite some time by the congressman. It shows that not only marriage, but also parent-child relationships determine family relationships. That means that partners can also live in a family if they have children together. And let's note that in the form of a partner, they usually raise their own child, so family ties are still there. I would warn my colleague, Andrea Varga-Damm, that he is involved in the Ptk. that if this is to be achieved by circumventing the law, it is an attackable statement that can be challenged by both the prosecutor's office and the guardian's office. Overall, thank you for not criticising most of the law. It seems to me that at this point there has really been an outbreak, obviously due to the attitude of a little polemia or a more lively debate. However, I would point out that it is not true that the government is accused of attacking these progressive, progressive and other ideas from a conservative side, even though the marriage of the same person is incomprehensible why they want to marry if they consider the marriage to be beyond form or adoption. It should be stated that these so-called progressive forces are constantly under attack on conservative and traditional values. And the kind of activity that the government does in the area of legislation is designed to protect them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws concerning defence pending closure. Government referral T/13657. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-17-215	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Article 45 of our Fundamental Law states that Hungary's armed forces are the Hungarian Defence Forces. The fundamental task of the Hungarian Defence Office is the military defence of Hungary's independence, territorial integrity and borders, the performance of joint defence and peacekeeping tasks arising from the international treaty, and the conduct of humanitarian activities in accordance with the rules of international law. Furthermore, the Fundamental Law states that the Hungarian Defence Forces are involved in the prevention, resolution and eradication of disasters. Dear fellow Members, When we say that we want to develop the Hungarian Defence Forces as the most modern and powerful military force in the region, we do so in order to guarantee the security, peace and freedom of the Hungarians. In front of our eyes, the defence and force development, the program Zrínyi 2026, will take place. This consists of the development of skills, the resuscitation of weapons production, the modernisation of military technology, the introduction of a career model, the digital military program and the patriotic education, to mention only a few important items of this program. And the soldiers proved that their duties are always carried out at the highest level, in peace and in emergency, in accordance with their oath. All we need to think about is the great floods in Duna and Tisza, the red sludge disaster or cyanide pollution. And now there's absolutely no way we can control the corona virus without them. Border protection, border locks, humanitarian Corridors, operation of the hospital command system, health care workers, assistance to hospitals, joint patrols in public areas with police officers, object control tasks, biological discharge, disinfection, virus eradication, and a list of all tasks performed at a very high and indispensable level, thus serving your country. The legislative package before us is designed to simplify, modernise and base this work and development. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to some important points. For example, a faster response during domestic floods, natural and other disasters, thus helping disaster management work and subsequent compensation. To keep the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and Police informed of the security and service of our soldiers serving abroad, if you will, by strengthening social control, publicity and transparency. Defence liaisons help bodies and organisations involved in the protection of their country to carry out their tasks at a high level. Using databases and existing tools, dangerous persons who are trying to cross the Hungarian border legally, but most often illegally, would help to carry out this task, meeting, of course, the new security challenges, the fight against migration and terrorism, the protection of cyberspace, hybrid warfare and, in the shadow of the coronal virus, the public health and epidemiological challenges. T/13657 on the amendment of certain laws concerning defence The aim of the bill is to regulate certain defence issues affecting defence organisations by amending the following five laws, based on shortcomings in the application of the law, changes in legislation and experience. XXXIV of 2011 on the registration of foreign armed forces on the territory of Hungary and of international military headquarters and stocks established in Hungary and certain provisions relating to their status. Law. The second law, which we would like to amend, is the 2011 CXIII on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that could be introduced in the special legal order. Law. The third law, which is amended, is XCVII of 2013 on defence data management, military management tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations. Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Act CXIV of 2018 on the status of defence employees. Law. [[22.00]] In the Foreign Force Station Act, the following major changes will be made. In practice, not only foreign armed forces and international military headquarters established in Hungary, but also international military headquarters not established in Hungary are temporarily serving in Hungary, for example in the case of military practices, conferences or sharp operations, i.e. with a smaller or larger number of troops they are temporarily settled in Hungary. In such cases, their records may be necessary to enforce their rights. In addition, the proposal states that, in accordance with general international practice, foreign armed forces are considered self-insured, i.e. they assume that they are directly liable for the damage caused by them without any specific liability insurance. Compared to the text in force, the proposal exempts persons or organisations from registration tax not only on imported vehicles but also on vehicles purchased here, thus encouraging foreign personnel and organisations to purchase from domestic trade. The second law, which is amended, is the most important part that the government informs the Parliament's committees on foreign affairs and defence by 30 April of each year on the implementation of NATO SOFA. The provision concerned was exceeded by time, it is justified that the annual report should be extended to cover the implementation in Hungary of all agreements governing the status of armed forces, so that this aspect of the presence of foreign forces in Hungary is complete. The other part of the proposal is to submit the annual report on the operations carried out by the Hungarian Defence Office abroad. In order to respond quickly to the floods, it is appropriate to allow the Hungarian Defence Forces military organisations to provide assistance to the bodies involved in disaster protection within a short period of time, without waiting for the decision of the Hungarian Defence Commander. The range of bodies involved in defence is quite wide and it is not certain at all that the body has adequate preparedness and competence in terms of its defence obligations. The defence liaison provides the bodies involved in defence with the opportunity to prepare by providing advice and professional assistance. The defence liaison does not operate in the body involved in defence; it is the so-called contact person appointed by the Minister of Defence from the staff of the Defence Organisation. To clarify biometric data management issues: irregular migration starts from a number of countries where the Allied forces have a biometric database for persons coming from countries. Using these databases and existing tools, dangerous persons who attempt to cross the Hungarian border legally or illegally could be detected, so the use of biometric devices would also help prevent possible terrorist acts. The ability to collect, process and compare biometric data with federal databases is increasingly important. In order to ensure effective exploratory support, it is essential to adapt the legislative environment in order to ensure the implementation of this activity for the designated and prepared personnel of the defence community, in order to make use of the opportunities provided by the available technical tools. The proposal also provides for a modification of the salary of the head and deputy of the central body and the Kjt. The implementation of collective agreements previously concluded on the basis of the provisions of the Act on the Status of Defence Staff was still a management requirement, but they remained applicable under the law until 31 December 2020. After this day, we need to resolve issues previously governed by collective agreements in a uniform manner, at the level of law and ministerial regulation. Dear Parliament, In the light of the above, I urge and ask you to discuss and support the legislative package. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-17-216	Good evening again. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the lead speaker, Honourable Parliament. Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, We have just begun to debate the proposal to amend certain laws concerning national protection, but before all this, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Hungarian Defence Forces and our soldiers for their superhuman stand, which they are also doing during the trying period of the coronal virus epidemic, and they are helping and supporting us. Even today, 2,000 soldiers must be working to ensure that our lives and environment are safe, as this number of people are certainly involved in the care of the CDC. Thank you very much for expecting the Hungarian Defence Forces, our soldiers in every situation, whether this is a virus threat, a flood or any other threat. The extensive draft proposal before us is part of a series of legislative proposals which seek to help the Hungarian Defence Forces work by helping them to fit in with the legislative environment, increase operational efficiency or remedy any shortcomings that have been revealed in recent years. It can be said that the amendments can be grouped around three major themes and areas. One is international military engagement, the execution of contractual tasks, whether domestic or foreign military presence. This is the subject of proposals concerning international military headquarters in Hungary, whether established or not, to assist in their domestic operation, but this is the subject of an annual mandatory report to the Parliament on the implementation of international treaties governing the status of foreign armed forces in Hungary and the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces abroad, or, as Mr. State Secretary mentioned, the recording of biometric data, which primarily supports the performance of tasks as effectively as possible during foreign operations. This was one of the areas. The other large area, which is affected by the proposal before us, is designed to ensure the safety of citizens and to intervene as effectively as possible in their interests. This includes, for example, the concept and role of a military liaison, who primarily carries out the coordination of tasks in the field of defence tasks, and the possibility of a commander of a territorially competent military body in the event of a disaster, for example in the event of a flood, to assign up to a hundred persons to this task in order to save lives and property as a result of the disaster, without, of course, endangering the basic supply. The third major area of amendment, which is affected by the proposal, concerns the everyday life of the Hungarian Defence Office, the soldiers, whether it be a proposal for amendments for the security of military objects as much as possible, or points concerning parts of service performance, or questions that make the register more efficient and up-to-date. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me now highlight some important areas in the package of amendments along the lines of the legislative proposals. XXXIV of 2011 on the register of foreign armed forces serving in the territory of the Republic of Hungary and of international military headquarters and stocks established in the territory of the Republic of Hungary and certain provisions relating to their status. The amendment of the Act simplifies the rules on foreign armed forces staying with us, so it serves as much as possible to cooperate with them. The status of international military headquarters temporarily deployed here will be clarified. [[22.10]] The rules establishing the legal capacity of international military headquarters will be established. By creating a legal background, the uncertainty experienced so far by international headquarters will be eliminated, which can be seen, for example, in the area of accounting and contracting transactions. It will be easier to practice the occupation of foreign armed forces in Hungary and to register vehicles used by foreign armed forces. As the Secretary of State has said, the exemption from registration tax, as far as motor vehicles are concerned, also encourages the purchase of domestic trade. The concept of foreign armed forces will also be simplified, as this will help to make it more flexible to cover all kinds of forces, as expanding tasks are increasingly affecting such concepts. The 2011 CXIII on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that may be introduced in the special legal order. The provisions introducing the concept of defence liaison and facilitating the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in disaster protection constitute a significant part of the amendment to the Act. As I said, in both cases, it is about introducing rules facilitating cooperation between defence and other bodies. The defence liaison prepares the bodies, organisations, institutions and service providers involved in the performance of defence tasks for cooperation with the military, and is also the primary liaison between the parties. Support for disaster prevention measures will improve the conditions for assistance as quickly as possible. It is also important to clarify the rules of entry into the objects of defence organisations, which will allow for more effective protection of objects. If necessary, the master of such an object may authorise personnel to guard the object to inspect the clothing, luggage and vehicles of the entrants. Some of the tasks of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee are added, as the Committee will also discuss a report on the implementation of the international treaties governing the status of foreign armed forces in Hungary and the operations carried out abroad. The latter is largely NATO military peacekeeping operations in the Balkans, by the way. XCVII of 2013 on defence data management, military management tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations. The main part of the package is the scope of the amendment of the law, especially if the annexes are taken into account, but its essence can be easily summarised: the rules on data processing and registration are updated. The ability to collect, process and compare biometric data with other databases needs to be improved, as the Secretary of State has said, in order to enable the defence to meet its challenges at present. It is particularly important to develop these competences, also because of the strengthening of illegal migration flows and the resurgence of international terrorism. The development of detection capabilities in the field of biometric data collection and processing is, moreover, a NATO expectation, the importance of which was highlighted at the NATO Lisbon Summit. The rules of the records of training, recreation and military law enforcement services are clarified on the basis of practical considerations. CXIV of 2018 on the status of defence staff. I'd like to talk more about the amendment of the law. After 31 December 2020, collective agreements with defence organisations will expire, but in some cases they will need to be regulated at the level of a ministerial decree, on which the Secretary of State also spoke. This law also complements the scope of appointments requiring national security control and the legal consequences for cases of legal relations to be terminated as a result of due diligence. Finally, I would also like to mention the possibility of an appeal against first-degree decisions concerning additional support for orphans, which addresses an important practical deficiency. Overall, we have a package of laws with forward-looking proposals, and with the adoption of these amendments we can only clarify and modernise the legal environment and provide answers to the problems that arise in practice. In order to ensure that the protection of the country can be achieved as effectively as possible on foreign missions, floods, disasters or the protection of objects, I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-218	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman László György Lukács, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Allow me to speak very briefly about the amendment of certain laws concerning national security. I do not wish to describe the areas that can be clearly read out of the legislation itself, the reasons for the legislation and its detailed justifications, because we would run the same circles of areas which are covered by the current bill, but it is also clear that the regulations contained in it fill the gaps in the application of the law and aim to improve them. I would like to highlight one thing at least, or at least encourage the defence wallet to be a little braver in this, and we can be braver in the role of Parliament's auditor, Parliament's authority, but also its right to information, and this is nothing more than the provision in which you, in the Hungarian Defence Act, provide that the Government reports once a year to the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Affairs, namely the implementation of international treaties governing the status of foreign armed forces in Hungary, and the operations of the Hungarian Defence Agency abroad. In view of this, we would suggest that Parliament has a very visible autumn and spring session, and both committees, both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Defence Committee, are actively and often proactively engaged in foreign missions, so that they can do so not once a year, but twice a year. By the way, one can be linked to a ministerial hearing and a report, and then additional information can be provided. We believe that it would certainly be best for Members to receive as much information as possible not only when they ask questions on a written question or on an immediate question, in interpellation, but also with regard to the Commission's audit work, especially if there are also personal overlaps between the two committees, i.e. in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which also strengthens work and control activities. I do not want to address any of the topical policy issues and the challenges of the defence and defence wallet and the direction in which we can move, I think that it is not necessary to raise this problem in the current epidemic situation, especially in the current situation, and to open a separate debate on these problems. In any case, I would like to point out that, in relation to the epidemiological situation, I would like to add that Jobbik, standing on the side of the legal order, as a right-wing party, believes that it is very important to recognise in this Parliament the role of the defence which is now being carried out in the management of the epidemic, both the personal and the corps' contribution to the defence. We would also like to thank you for your work and for the work of law enforcement workers and, of course, health workers, as well as Hungarian citizens who are trying to contribute to a successful defence. God save Hungary! Thank you very much. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]]
u2020-11-17-220	Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here. [[22.20]]
u2020-11-17-221	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also important to preserve the country's viability in the midst of the pandemic. It is important that Parliament meets continuously and continues its legislative work. As part of this, the Minister of Defence presented the T/13657 on the amendment of certain laws concerning defence. Bill No. 1. Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the bill on the amendment of certain laws concerning defence is to amend five relevant laws on the basis of shortcomings identified in the application of the law, changes in legislation and practical experience. In view of the fact that Mr Szilárd Németh's exposé and the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mr Mónika Bartos, discussed the bill in detail, I would like to highlight only the following. First, XXXIV of 2011 on the register of foreign armed forces serving in the territory of the Republic of Hungary and the international military headquarters and their personnel established in the territory of the Republic of Hungary and on certain provisions relating to their status. I would like to highlight the main amendments to the Act. In practice, international military headquarters not established in Hungary also serve on a temporary basis, such as in the case of military practice, conference or sharp operations in Hungary, i.e. with a smaller or larger number of temporary residents. In such cases, their records may be necessary to enforce their rights. The aim of this bill is also to create the legal capacity of international military command in Hungary. According to the bill, unless otherwise provided for in an international treaty or international agreement, they should be regarded as legal persons in respect of their internal legal transactions. The bill is CXIII of 2011 on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that can be implemented in the special legal order. It also provides for the amendment of the law. It should be pointed out that the bill creates an obligation to submit the annual report to the Parliament's Defence and Police Committee on the implementation of international treaties governing the status of foreign armed forces in Hungary and the operations carried out abroad. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to respond quickly to the floods, the bill aims to enable the Hungarian Defence Forces military organisations to provide assistance to the organs involved in disaster protection within a short period of time, without waiting for the decision of the Hungarian Defence Command. On the basis of the bill, it will be possible to send a defence liaison to any body, organisation, institution, service provider involved in defence. The bill may also examine the clothing of the person entering or leaving the controlled area, as well as the items, packages, vehicles used for entry, if ordered by the object commander. If the data subject refuses to do so, he may be forbidden to enter the object. XCVII of 2013 on defence data management, military management tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations. the need to amend law on the grounds of data processing provisions. The modification of data processing related to military law enforcement services allows for the treatment of image recording, audio recording, images and audio recordings, as well as the discipline imposed by military law enforcement measures. Ladies and Gentlemen, Illegal migration has started from a number of countries where the federal forces have a biometric database for persons coming from countries. These databases can be used to detect dangerous persons who are trying to cross the Hungarian border legally or illegally. It is therefore necessary to settle this processing. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/13657. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-222	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2020-11-17-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As a defense law, the first word on our part is thanks to the entire staff for the strained, superhuman work they are doing right now. It's just, you know, there's empty words, there's honest talk. What people think about this and what they do, I think this bill is the most important one. I will also turn to my fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, and I will also turn to my fellow Member, Mr KDNP, and I will make an attempt to reach out to the Secretary of State. With this bill, do you thank the defense staff for their work? Do you know what's in this bill? In addition to the prep, they've put a little bit into what they're gonna change these people's lives? Are you aware that, in addition to 150 hours of mandatory overtime under the Labour Code of Defence employees, this bill will require 300 hours, 37.5 days of mandatory overtime for these people? Do you know that in this proposal, the people working at the Honvéd Hospital who work for this position can be ordered to work for up to 450 hours, 50 days of overtime? Or perhaps by raising the salary of the national police commissioner and his deputies by nearly a hundred percent, which is also included in this bill, you would like to thank the soldiers for their support and work? Speaking of respect and thanks, wouldn't the Minister have respected his own staff by coming in personally and, by the way, personally telling us what they are doing and why they are doing for a bill that basically defines their legal status? The reality is, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal is a confession to the failure of the defence leadership. We sat in this House in May and discussed this absolutely amazing proposal as a prelude to this, the main part of which was that professional staff had been raised from 300 hours to 400 hours at the time, in the spirit of thanks. Fifty days! In 12 months, you can order almost two months of overtime under the law as a thank you to these people. They're basically continuing this with regard to defense employees. What else is this, if not the admission that behind the big success propaganda, we are seeing a complete failure to retain personnel? It's no coincidence that they've been hiding and encrypting data on the military base for years. Why would it be necessary to eviscerate these people, if, by the way, the state of the army would be okay, the new people would come forward and they could be assigned to the service? This is not a reaction to the situation caused by the Covid virus epidemic, as a general rule, you put it in the legal status laws in May. In addition, honourable Members, you must also have noticed that the legislation introduced into the labour code, which is known as the slave law, is being transposed in respect of defence workers. They add, of course, that, on the basis of mutual agreement between the parties, it is possible to account for defence employees within a 36-month working period. For defense employees, mutual agreement, let's leave it at that, is a highly relative concept. As in general, in a military discipline organization, mutual agreement is a relatively relative concept, and let me say no more powerful words. Ladies and gentlemen, What I see, at least, is that you have attacked us a great deal by, for example, the fact that during the 2008 global economic crisis, the 13th month's salary had to be withdrawn. They always forget to add that before, until there was an economic crisis, we paid 13 months' salary for 12 months of work. And now you are in the business of introducing laws that provide for 13 months of work and 14 months of work for your own workers, soldiers, workers, everyone in this country instead of 13 months' wages. [[22.30]] This is indeed a big difference; while you have been in the lucky position to govern a global economy since 2010, it has been almost ten years. And you are not thanking this stock, for example, by giving back the 13th month's money that has been said, but 13th and 14th months' overtime and overtime by law to these people. That, even in the title of this bill, they did not dare to mention that they are not only concerned with the field of defence, but that they are also amending the law on the law on the law of law enforcement, we do not admire it. And the fact that the salary of the national chief of police and his deputies with one stroke of a pen, once again, is raised by up to 90-100 percent, is an interesting thing in a law by itself, where, by the way, the eviscerating of defence employees and defence employees is written into the law; it says a lot. But it says a lot about the whole phenomenon. Do you know why you have to put it in the law, and why you have to change it, so that the commissioner and his deputies can get that much money? Because, ladies and gentlemen, salaries can be paid on the basis of the police salary base and its multipliers, and the amazing fact is that after you have not touched the salary fund in 12 years, there is no longer a multiplier to increase the wages of the national commissioner and his deputies to the wages of government officials of similar rank. We're out of numbers. The law enforcement salary is so low, you can't pay your salary to the national police. So now they're going to write in the law that they're going to get the money from the annex, and they're going to put it in an annex, in the law itself, that instead of their salary of around one million, they're going to be entitled to 1.5 million and 1.9 million salaries for the chief commissioner and 1 million up to 650 thousand, I think from 1 million to 200,000. It's a pretty honest one-off raise, and it's a fact and it's true, and I don't dispute that, by the way, the state's administration levels will be paid to the national police commissioner and his deputies. But I beg you, we have been telling you for years that the new police career model has been in vain if the bottom is empty, if, to this day, there are professional colleagues on the street day and night with a salary of 190 and 200 thousand forints. We've told you a hundred times, not just us, but the people involved, that there's a dropout because a simple trained worker, say, makes more money than a multi-national company than a police officer, a prep cop. And is it okay for a national commissioner to make three times as much as an underling? Sure. Is it okay to make five times as much money? Maybe it is. According to this proposal, he will earn ten times as much, and that is not all right; that again in this bill, the defense workers, the busy little people who do their daily work, who serve the military or maintain the functioning of the Honvéd Hospital, will squeeze out the sustenance while giving the police leaders almost 100 percent wage increase. We think that this is very, very wrong, and I am convinced of Mónika Bartos, who is also a member of the committee, that perhaps, if he had looked at it with such a look in the bill, he would not have been so encouraged to vote in favour of the proposal, and perhaps he would have taken a slightly different approach to this bill. As far as the rules on defence liaisons are concerned, honourable Members, we have not come any closer to a solution, we remain a completely confused legal institution and have a completely confusing legal background. Obviously, in our view, this is also the aim of regulation, so that no one really knows what it is, how far this scope goes, and how it is, but I do not want to deal with it anymore. What is much more interesting, however, is that the proposal, called correction, is trying to correct the powers of the military forces involved in the crisis caused by mass immigration and the health crisis. In fact, they did commit codification problems the other day, but it's a little bit bigger than that. Allow me to quote you, Népszava has written a pretty good compilation of what chaos there is legally in this area. And I will quote you from this because the article itself quotes from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the Prime Minister, soldiers on the street due to an epidemic cannot take action against civilians, even though he himself voted in favour of the legislative amendment that would now allow this to happen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I quote Viktor Orbán, he said last week:. According to the rules of the Hungarian constitutional order, you cannot act against a military civilian for the purpose of orderkeeping, only the policeman. The Prime Minister himself saw this, stressing that this is not a war situation, which is today on the subject. However, ladies and gentlemen, in May too, you voted without a word in favour of the law that Gergely Gulyás wrote. It is in that law, and it also says today, that soldiers have an independent right to take action in such a crisis and emergency. They have the right to carry weapons, no obligation to use weapons, but they have the right to use weapons, under their own command. And the fact that the Prime Minister on TV2 Facts may or may in some program try to convince the people of the opposite and reassure them... because Hungarian people do not like XX. After the storms of the century, if Hungarian soldiers act against Hungarian citizens with machine guns in their hands, they do not like it, understand this! They love safety, they like to be kept safe, but the fact that the rules made by the government are being called upon by heavily armed machine gun soldiers is something Hungarian citizens do not like. And the Prime Minister felt this precisely, and I think Mr. Rogán measured it relatively quickly, and ran into TV2 and said that it was absolutely unconstitutional that the law which you accepted this summer was totally unconstitutional. He told me with his own mouth that it would be against the law if he were like this, but that's what the law says. And you're not adjusting this now, you're just clarifying how and how a soldier has the right to verify and produce, that is, to handcuff anyone and take them, to inspect clothing, to search a car and, in some cases, to enter a private apartment; because that is the legal situation today. And the fact that they are sensing that if I dared to do so, there would be a great deal of trouble, and therefore, on the basis of such Prime Minister's orders and statements, they do not do so, does not mean that otherwise there is no unconstitutional situation on this issue. However, this proposal also does not provide for this. Ladies and gentlemen, With great respect, I can tell you that if you are truly committed to the cause of defence, you really want to thank the staff for the amazing work they are doing today, and we see that you are also in hospitals, and we see that you are also trying to help on the street, it is not their fault, so be kind or modify or not vote for this proposal. You can't pull another skin off these people, you can't overwhelm them, you can't pull so much skin off professional or military personnel working next to them, you can't pull it off without being punished. And if the government finally admits that, under the current financial situation, it is not competitive and cannot provide the right number of people, then choose the path and the way that is otherwise operational and sustainable in the long term. Please estimate not only the commanders, but also the subordinate staff, give them a proper salary, and then you can talk about stable military and police personnel in Hungary! Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]]
u2020-11-17-224	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you frankly that, when I saw that there was going to be a amendment to certain laws concerning national defence in this House, I thought that there would be some kind of change that would actually serve this way during the epidemic situation, as several of my fellow Members spoke about the importance of the development of the Hungarian Defence Service, it would serve the interests of Hungarian citizens, that it would serve Hungary's interests, that it would serve the process that we all want to do here in a normal way, that it would be normal to defend itself against an epidemic. [[22.40]] Compared to this, I must say that the previous laws negotiated here in this House have caused me great disappointment, and I cannot tell you that. This is where they dealt with a memorial year, which is, of course, very important, but I don't think we should focus on 2022 and 23. The Parliament has dealt with looting of the law, dealing with the abolition of an important institution, of course the law of theft as usual. These are all the laws that you have put in with others, because it is a completely natural process for you, my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, that in times of crisis, you love other citizens, people you, for some reason, do not like and spot; decisions that are specifically directed towards a social group, with which, to say the least, you do so maliciously wrong with these people. I do not know what motivates you to do so, certainly not by Christian love, but rather by some malice from within, because they like to spot people in this House. But the fact that they are submitting the Defense Act here, and in this, as my fellow Members have listed it, they simply put in things that make decisions about people who work for us, for our country, and do bad things to them, not many of whom swear that if necessary, they will protect their country and you in it, and now they are out on the streets, in hospitals, doing their job, so I can tell you that this is quite simply cynical impertinence, and then I put it very delicately. It's pretty amazing. It's pretty amazing. The Secretary of State spoke about the fact that we are looking at the programme Zrínyi 2026. First of all, Mr Secretary of State, forgive me for having to correct you, because your military colleagues no longer know what to call them, because they have introduced so many names here in the past period, they are talking about 2030, so they are talking about a longer term, which concerns some improvements. Because basically, we know that the program Zrínyi 2026 is like Columbo's wife, everyone talks about it, but no one has ever seen it. Even back then, perhaps my fellow Member Bellozó was there, and I know for sure that he was at the committee meeting where Minister Simicskó presented a colorful, smelly publication that said that everything is being developed at the same time, so everything is being developed at the same time. That's obviously not possible. But I'll tell you honestly, then I don't think either of us thought, and I certainly didn't think that this is going to happen in front of us in your reading, which means stealing taxpayers' money in front of our eyes and standing up in front of our eyes, Mr. Secretary of State and the Minister, and lying to everyone in their eyes when they say that Members of Parliament can see these treaties in the Defence and Police Committee. Mr Secretary, I believe that I have tried many genres here in Parliament, at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, we have written a letter together, and we have submitted a written question. I may not have sung it yet, I haven't balleted it, and I haven't puppeted it to you that I would like to look at it in the past period, let's say I would say that starting on 1 May 2018 in the contracts relating to defence procurement, including not only the purchase of military equipment itself, but also the related logistics contracts. Because we know, perhaps you know, Mr. Secretary of State, that your Secretary of State for Administration has already admitted that it is often not the instrument that is expensive, but the associated infrastructure development itself. Of course, I never got a straight answer. At a time when the Prime Minister speaks in Parliament and receives immediate questions, he is sitting here, and otherwise he is not sitting here. You can't talk to him for real. I sincerely hope that your many, many energies, which you spend shutting us out of the nation, will now be tied to the fact that sooner or later the Minister will come and finally report to the Defence Committee on what purchases have been made. My fellow Members and, in particular, Mr Harangozó, have already spoken here about the problems that appear in this bill. Defense employment itself has been a problem, we know that. In this case, the defense wallet tried to act in such a way that they thought you were allowed to do everything there, too. As far as I know, in this case, there is already a judgment in the first instance that it is not possible to force everyone into this relationship, that it is not possible to blackmail everyone with this law and with the withdrawal of money, because this method has been used. As regards overtime, we have already explained in spring, many times we have explained the moment where the Hungarian Defence Forces cannot be burdened any longer. Mr. Secretary of State knows exactly what I'm saying, but at the moment there are 5-8 thousand people without the Hungarian Defence Service. We don't know that. Although the Prime Minister has already broken the law you passed here once, where he reported on the Hungarian Defence Forces' numbers, we are not getting the right information on this, but it is pretty much possible to see that the Hungarian Defence Forces are in such a deficit. I understand, and I think that it could be a natural and normal thing to do in a situation such as Hungary and, of course, the whole world, the Hungarian Defence Office. Only when you sneak into this law and have done the same thing to health workers, sly, sly, sneaky, sneaky ways of plugging the negatives in with the various positives, I think that you are in no way guided by the fact that the people who, I say once again, are serving on the streets, for example, now, we are extremely grateful and, by the way, do their daily job, to these people, to create a positive picture of what it means to be a Hungarian soldier today. Because it's very good, Mr. Secretary, and I regularly visit various military websites, I see what a great activity our soldiers do, but that's not just what it means to be a soldier. The soldier is straight, fair, and I think he expects the same from his military and political leaders. Well, of course, there is a moment where I actually understand you, and I understand the wallet, because by now the defense wallet has reached the point of not having control of its own field. Look, when we look at military activity, we see that after separating the so far integrated staff, which has worked very well, and basically the civilian control, to say that it has been liquidated, and please, Mr. Secretary, when you say in your reply what kind of civilian control it is, do not bring up the Defence and Police Committee, because there is little we can do to exercise this kind of civilian control because we do not get the opportunity to obtain and see the information. With regard to purchases, defence purchases, we can see that the dominant, the alpha male, if I may say so, is Maróth Gáspár, the one who controls everything; he is the one who determines everything; who announces and tells us what all new tools have been acquired by the Hungarian Defence Forces, who knows how and in what process. But none of this would be such a problem, my dear House, if we could see that, in the meantime, you are grasping everything in terms of protection and control of the epidemic. We are sitting here, and I would very much like to sit here in Parliament for a long time and talk about these things, but I would just like to ask you that this bill, which, in addition to putting a burden on defence employees, and as my fellow Member Harangozó mentioned, is very charming to raise the salary of police leaders, which I do not dispute is really necessary, but unfortunately, at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, the representatives of the Ministry of Interior do not admit on one occasion that the police's career model is no longer working, as while it was competitive a few years ago, it is not now. And we know precisely that we need soldiers not only in hospitals or in public areas, say, to take curfew measures or to take certain health measures, because they are trained to do so, but because there are not enough policemen and there are not enough medical workers. And I'm just saying, in this process, where there are not enough health workers, you have put a bill in the House in addition to a salary increase, which I think is a very positive thing, do not misunderstand, of course, we supported this, which created a situation that, in the end, threatened the lives of Hungarians. [[22.50]] We are here in the Parliament, not too many, there are still very important professional laws, but we do not decide what can be done in order to have free and mass testing in Hungary, and let us say how some bodies can participate in this. We are not discussing, ladies and gentlemen, how, by what means, the Parliament could extend, let us say, the extension of the payment of job-seeking support. We're not talking about how there's gonna be a proper state wage here, just like in Austria, the lab. We are not talking about how to double the family allowance or how to provide support to pensioners in the most difficult situation. We are not talking, my fellow Members, about how this country will provide influenza to all those who ask for it. And I would very much like to ask you not to say that there are enough flu shots, because there are no, because there are no children, people who ask for this. We will talk about at least one positive thing at the next item, but I would like to discuss these issues. Because you can put such laws on the agenda, and you can come here and say how great this will be for the army, but it won't be great for the army, and it won't be great for the country. Of course, it's gonna be very good for the national police commissioner and his deputies, so I see this is a blunder on the defense wallet, but it's not gonna be good for the policeman who has to be on the street, and he's gonna have to check that everyone's gonna follow the curfew or wear the mask. You know, fellow Members, we will be here, and we will be happy to come to Parliament if you do not want to puppet, only the past agendas show that you just want to puppet the Parliament and do not want to debate decisions, issues that are really important in the fight against the epidemic. I am very pleased that my fellow Member, Mr Bartos, has entered the debate and made his point, but I would also like to say to you, Madam President, that you should be able to read this proposal through and listen to what we are saying. And I would also like to say to the Member that it is very important to organise data, and I would even like to say that it is very important, for example, to change the term "defence body building requirements" on page 12, as would the change of the term "defence bodywork program" be extremely important. This is not what the bill aims at, but for example, I would have liked it to be changed, because it has a very bad hearing. I would have liked it if they had introduced a bill in which they said that the protection of the country is an obligation of all Hungarian citizens, but all Hungarian citizens are indeed involved in this, not just those who are resident in Hungary, because there are no Hungarian citizens in the world who only have rights, and there are Hungarian citizens who only have obligations. Now, when these people are brought in, it's worth arguing about, but not about doing bad things to those who, if necessary, sacrifice their free time, their freedom and their lives for this country. They're trying to eviscerate them now. Or to make proposals for those police officers who are actually doing their job, and who you expect to be there every day, to do their job, and not a few of them have been infected, not dealing with their benefits and salaries, it's a sneaky, sneaky attitude, and I tell you honestly, I refuse to take that attitude. So we can deal with databases here, we can deal with a raise in command here, the fundamental problem and the fundamental question for which we are sitting here, and we have been sent here by the electorate to solve the problem now, the epidemic, and these billings are not going to solve it, my fellow Members. I'd like to ask you to focus our efforts on this. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Bell Clap.]]
u2020-11-17-226	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It's my duty to ask if there's anyone else you'd like to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no further speeches have been received, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to reflect. [[On the sign of István Szilárd Németh:]] It says yes. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-11-17-227	Thank you very much. Just very briefly at this late hour. Thank you very much for the clear support of the speakers of Fidesz, Jobbik and KDNP, I think this will also appear in the votes. I asked that we discuss this and vote on this proposal at the end. I have told you what the purpose of this proposal is, what it amends, what we expect from this proposal, what it is based on. It clearly establishes the modernization, development of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the career model of professional, contractual or voluntary reserve soldiers and defence employees in the Hungarian Defence Office. Tamás Harangozó may have made the excuses a little nicer, and Ágnes Vadai put it in a very rude and unlikable tone, using words like sly, insidious, cynical, impertinent presentation. I think the sly, insidious, cynical comment that you, Congresswoman, as former Secretary of State for Defence, have done here, because you have no small responsibility in what happened before 2010 with the Hungarian Defence Agency, in halving the number of defence forces, eliminating the number of military service stations, including twenty barracks, eliminating military health institutions, releasing soldiers into the winds, playing with pension funds, eliminating capabilities, squandering military technology. So, I think there's a lot on your mind about saying that when it's clear that this package of laws is for development, development and the appreciation of our soldiers, our soldiers. But the figures show this, Congresswoman and Congressman. You've completely pulled the passes of the law on the status of defense employees, and you've said that this is something amazing, almost horrific. Well, I would like to say with great respect that 99.7 percent of people signed themselves, voluntarily, without any pressure, that they would like to work in this system when they had a choice. That means 997 out of 1,000 employees have accepted this. That's amazing. Show me another number like this. They're throwing numbers at you? In 2010, there were 17 volunteers, and now they're over 10,500, and they keep coming in, and they're serving, volunteering in the toughest, toughest places. Among other things, hundreds of voluntary reserve soldiers have undertaken to participate in the disinfection process, which is the unique ability of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which has enabled full deviralization and disinfection to be carried out in more than a thousand elderly homes in Hungary. Defence employees earn 30 percent more than civil servants, and they have a lot of benefits, and they didn't take this job by accident. Under the best conditions, workers are also employed in the defence health institution. The encryption? No encryption. You are also on the committee, I have nothing else to say, and, by the way, as Members of Parliament, you are entitled to information, to access all data, to ask questions, to interpellation. Now, in the interpellation phase, we agreed that there should be as little contact as possible because of the Covid infection, and that we will suspend it, but in the hour of immediate questioning, you asked the Prime Minister, for example, a question the other day. So these opportunities are open to all Members of Parliament, and the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence are extremely fundamental in this respect. , cooperating on these issues [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] And he'll give you all the knowledge. [[23.00]] I'd like to suggest one thing to you. If you would like to be informed at the committee meeting, you should attend the committee meeting. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm coming! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's right.]] It must be there at the committee meeting, because it is very difficult to be informed from afar, especially when a closed meeting is held at the committee meeting, where only Members or invited persons can go. To encrypt purchases, allow one more thought. A month ago, in one of the programs of RTL Club, which was not even accused of being otherwise pro-government, it was reported in more than half an hour's report in a capable report, sitting on A-319, presenting the work of A-319 as a military transport plane. So this is the level of public development. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai is laughing.]] Everyone can see that the battlecars, the Leopard battlecars, have arrived to buy [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Secretary of State is smiling.]] I don't smile, I don't smile a bit, these are very serious things, by the way, a decision has been made on the Defense and Police Committee. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I can promise you that, and thank you very much for the words of appreciation that have been delivered to the Hungarian soldiers, and of course I will convey this to them, that the Hungarian Defence Office is at the disposal of the Hungarian people with its full ability and means, both in peace and in an emergency, ensuring the territorial integrity of Hungary, the internal peace of the country and the security of the Hungarian people, as defined in the Constitution. I ask you to promote the development and operation of this defence by voting in favour of the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-17-228	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Thank you very much. I am pleased that there is absolutely a consensus on one issue, namely that they are not smiling. I don't think I'm breaking house rules if I join this. I'll tell you why I don't smile. The reason I'm not smiling is because we're two hours late, and we've got three more agenda points at 23:00 a.m. Of course, this does not oblige anyone in any way, but I think it is absolutely important for information. So we'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1997 LXXXIII on compulsory health insurance benefits. General debate on the proposal to amend law on the increase of the baby care fee until closure. Government referral T/13665. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not obligated to do anything Mr. President said, but I'm trying to keep my head down. The proposal before us is short in substance, but it is a huge milestone for family and children. Please allow me to briefly explain how we have come to this point before I describe the substance of the bill. Dear Parliament, In 2010, we took over a country on the brink of bankruptcy in a demographic sense. All major demographic indicators were at a low point. The family-centred Hungarian people, especially the Hungarian youth, saw little opportunity to start a family, have children, especially another child. If I had to sum up briefly, I can say that by 2010, Hungarian people had lost faith in the future and confidence. The loss of confidence is partly due to the fact that the left-wing governments at that time only perceived the support of families as aid, and even reduced the amount of aid when the child's time was shortened by one year, the upper age limit of the family allowance was reduced from 23 to 20 years, or when the home-building aid launched by the first civilian government was abolished. In view of all of this, it is no coincidence that according to the data at that time, couples never married as little as in the last year of socialist governance. According to the 2008 youth survey, some 19 percent of the 15-29 age groups strongly stated that they were not planning a child or a further child, and 8 percent would have made it dependent on the circumstances. In other words, one in four Hungarian young people had already given up on starting a family or even had conditions to consider it at all. At that time, young people referred to financial reasons, housing problems, and careers as obstacles to childbearing. In view of this, we decided in 2010 with the mandate of the electorate to bring the economy back to normal, with the building of a work-based society, to achieve a unique family-oriented governance in the world. This is aimed at halting negative demographic trends, facilitating the birth of desired children, strengthening families with children and helping families to reach home. The family is Hungary's most important resource; every Hungarian child whose birth contributes to the survival of the nation is valuable. Our basic law also states that Hungary protects the family as a basis for the survival of the nation. We believe that without a family there is no future, and without children there is no future. There is a lot of debate between us in Parliament, but we believe that in this matter, the future of Hungary is for families, we do not have to argue. Dear House, It is important to clarify what family-friendly governance means. A system that helps and supports the removal of obstacles to family formation and childbearing, and in which young couples are given a realistic opportunity to implement their childbearing plans. Since 2010, we have been building a system that is predictable, predictable and safe and which provides the largest support for families in Europe. Since 2010, the combined amount of family support has increased by two and a half times. The various family policy subsidies help Hungarian families in all life situations, whether it is the balance between work and family life, the beginning of life or the creation of a home. Since 2010, in order to give just a few examples, we have rebuilt the third year of the child in the family support system, introduced a family-friendly tax system, and launched a comprehensive crèche development programme. We give first married people a discount for every young couple for two years. With Gyed extra, parents can work alongside raising their children. With your degree, we support the lives of children who study in higher education. In addition to these measures, the first family protection action plan was launched in 2019, the measures of which entered into force from 1 January of this year. Just to take a look at the numbers: the most popular element, the baby shower support nearly 122 thousand people, the support of large families for car shopping, 30 thousand people, as well as the various home creation programs like CSOK, the village CSOK helped hundreds of thousands of people to have a secure roof over their heads. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us, which is now to be discussed, is to put families with children in better financial conditions. According to the bill, the amount of the baby care fee will therefore increase from 70 per cent to 100 per cent from 1 July 2021, thus increasing the amount of benefit to 100 per cent of the previous gross salary, which will not reduce the income of pre-natal working mothers during maternity leave, or even receive a higher amount of benefits than their previous net income. The increase would apply not only to those entitled to benefit after entry into force, but also to those who still have access to the baby care fee at the time of entry into force, i.e. the increase would also affect current benefits. [[23.10]] With this measure, we will be able to remove a new burden from the shoulders of families who plan to have children. Our goal in Hungary is not to create a family, to have children and to raise children as a matter of money, and to give birth to every child you want. We hope that the legislative proposal will be discussed in order to achieve this goal and will be supported at the end. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, At this late hour, although Mr President has indicated that time is moving forward, and therefore he is asking everyone for patience and restraint, I apologise, but I think that the family support system and this new, now discussed, is an important topic that could be talked about in any way, from time to time, from 2:00 a.m. I mean, it wouldn't be good for us to make the same mistake that people turn on the TVs at night, and unfortunately, there are news stations that have all kinds of negative events, almost 80 percent, against which, by the way, we always raise our voices, which provide accidents, deaths, so every tragic day's event, but some media reports less on the good news. On this occasion, today, too, there have been a lot of left-wing speeches that have painted rumors, often unrealities, and very black clouds on the sky. This is a subject that does deserve attention, so I would like to pay tribute to the President that, although I take some account of his warning, the positive news that comes with this item on the agenda, I would like to say it in any way on behalf of my group. Article 50 of Hungary's Fundamental Law states: "Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a man and a woman, a community of life formed by voluntary decision, and the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Family relationships are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. Hungary supports childbearing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The civilian government has been treating support for families as a priority since 2010, and when we say that for the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association, the child is the first for us, or when we say that the family is the first, we not only say this, but also prove this through countless measures and actions. In 2019 the Government adopted a seven-point family protection action plan, the measures of which entered into force on 1 July 2019 and 1 January 2020. This year's budget is a budget for support for families, in which the government's budget is more than two and a half times higher than in 2010, but the left did not vote for this budget and the increases included therein. On 16 February 2020, the Prime Minister proposed new measures to help families, aimed at better financial conditions for families with children than if they did not have children. One of the measures announced on the evaluation was the increase in the baby care fee. Although everyone knows that we've had the first wave of the corona virus on our hands this spring, now we have the second wave, despite what the government promises, it will keep. We, the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, support these ideas to a large extent. The baby care fee, i.e. the non-subject financial benefit linked to insurance, is intended to compensate for the loss of income associated with the birth of the child. The bill before us supports the mother and other children who work before having children in order not to reduce their income during maternity leave, to receive a higher amount of benefits than their previous net income, as 70 percent of the income in the family, and according to the bill, this increases to 100 percent from 1 July 2021. The amount of the family is only paid in advance, but there is no need to pay 15% or social security contributions, and, of course, family tax relief can also be implemented. In view of the fact that the reduction of 15 per cent of the chedium, while the gross action is reduced by 33.5 per cent, the recipients of 100 per cent will receive a benefit of a higher amount than their previous net earnings, which is simple mathematics. This measure provides an additional incentive for childbearing, more help for the livelihood of families with children and their daily lives. Ladies and gentlemen, Family policy is a Community, state policy, which considers the family to be the core of the national community. We need a system of relationships that protects and serves the basic unity of society, the family. The most important objective of family support systems and policies is that people are free to make decisions about the founding of their families and the children they undertake, without harming personal and family intimacy, which is not only moral but also material assistance. The potential objectives of family policy are to recognise the child's usefulness through support for childbearing, to take over the costs of child rearing in a more complete and greater proportion by the state, society, to reduce income inequalities, poverty risk for families, to promote the internal stability of families, to operate a complex, stable family policy system that can respond to changing challenges. I believe that these objectives are largely met by family policies after 2010. I am not really going to mention this here, which I have mentioned, that I am partially consensual of the President's warning, that in the next 10 to 15 minutes, I am not going to list the measures that the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken since 2010 in the interests of family members who do not yet have children, so those who are about to have children, those who have only one child, those who still have one child, and I could continue the line up to the top of large families, so I would like to skip these dozens of points now, this, I think everyone knows, the Fidesz-KDNP faction Association knows at least one by one. This, of course, would be little, we know very well that Hungarian people, Hungarian families, Hungarian mothers and fathers know this, and I risk it, although my fellow left-wing Members are constantly pretending that they do not know about these measures, they are disproved or considered void, and I know very well that they know them, you know, they know the numbers, too, so I think it would be pointless to mention it here. However, in the course of the debate, if there is a need for it, I think that we can replace it in our next speeches with the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention. The Fidesz Group is very much in favour of this proposal, because it helps Hungarian families, mothers, fathers and children. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-232	Thank you very much for taking my request into account. Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. The Jobbik faction supports all measures that are favourable to the Hungarian families, as is the bill before us. [[23.20]] We are very pleased that the fund for maternity leave, which used to be known as maternity child benefit, will now rise from 70 percent of gross earnings to 100 percent from 1 July 2021 as a baby care fee. This is very important for families raising children, and we agree to the maximum agreement that the income creators of the insurance relationship will thus receive additional resources, so that Hungarian households can also have extra income and spend it on their children. I understand that my fellow Member from the Danube is only saying positive things, but let's also talk a little bit about negatives. You forgot to say, my fellow Member, that since 2008-09 the family allowance has not increased, we are talking about HUF 12 200 for a child. I believe that if at least the inflation follow-up had been increased in the past period, we would not be there to bring such a shameful sum to the Hungarian families as a family allowance. Jobbik has developed a so-called family card program. We think of this family card as an alternative means of payment, as in the case of the SZÉP card, in order to obtain the benefits that families really use to raise children, basic foods, child education or education, so use it for tools, services that are really needed to raise children. This family card could even be the home of the countless cafeteria elements that you have removed, and it could be channeled there, because then the goals would be achieved and they would be even more attainable, and we would otherwise fully agree with them. We see that one of the biggest problems of Hungarian society, the Hungarian nation, is that children are not born, and not all children are born. Our goal is, yes, to have large families, to have as many children as possible, but to do so, we must provide these resources. The bill before us is an excellent proposal, we fully support it, and we hope that in the coming period more of these family support measures will be presented to us, which I believe we, along with my fellow opposition Members, will be happy to press a button. But it is because they are silent about measures or deny measures that need to be discussed, and here, within the walls of Parliament, the question of family allowances has been constantly raised... We in every case support Jobbik to refer at least to this so-called family card after inflation. Maybe this is for you, because you didn't make it up, so you don't like it. Then figure it out, name it any other way. But this family card could be a leap point, precisely so that children who parents desire can be born. Yes, the baby care fee, this increase, is indeed an important and indispensable step towards achieving the goals that, I believe, the 199 Members sitting here have in common interest. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-17-234	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr László Földi, is next, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-235	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the people who are on the front line during the plague, fighting...
u2020-11-17-236	Just a moment, Congressman. The thing is... please. I'm sorry, there's no sound. We'd like to ask you to set the microphone for Earth Congressman. The microphone's on you, isn't it? [[László Földi: Upstairs!]] Yeah. Then I'll ask you nicely. And I'm sure it's yours. He's here. He's very good. [[László Földi: It's good now, isn't it?]] I ask that since we have heard nothing of it and it is important for the record, please try to give your opinion from the beginning. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to express my thanks to everyone who fights on the front lines of the coronal virus epidemic for the lives and livelihoods of people. We cannot stress enough that this is a common struggle, but in health care, education, commerce, law enforcement and public services, Hungarians really do superhuman work. Dear House, For a decade, the Fidesz-KDNP government has consistently stood up for a clear and proven family model: the family is a voluntary community of love between a man and a woman, a father and a mother, whose main goal and long-term real meaning is to have children. Therefore, the national government, with all its decisions, is in the interest of families and children. There cannot be such a difficult time when we have to put this goal behind us, because it would not only be against the clear will of the overwhelming majority of voters, but also, in the historical perspective, to give up the national future. All of our family protection measures are in the interest of the people. Families' tax incentives, home-building benefits or 50 percent of housing renovations, and now, from July next year, raising the baby-care fee follows the objective of keeping families together, having children, and ultimately maintaining the nation. My colleague, Mrs Potocsány, objected to the family allowance for not raising the family allowance. But if you look at them, textbook support, catering support, family tax incentives all affect the way families can live decently. Childbearing is a lifelong task involving many sacrifices. The state can only take a small, but more important part of this, to create a spiritual, material and legal environment for families so that at least the conditions that can be provided centrally and nationally for the birth of the desired children can be met. It is therefore our duty as legislators to make life especially easier for families in the most difficult times. This is why, with effect from July 2021, we are preparing to increase the baby care fee from 70 per cent to 100 per cent. This measure directly affects almost 80,000 people in Hungary. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The baby care fee is part of the government's family protection action plan launched in 2019 and expanded with new elements this year, and is unique in its kind in Europe. It is important to highlight this, and the Secretary of State has also spoken about it, and my fellow Member mentioned that it concerns not only children born after 1 July 2021, but also those who are eligible for this support before 1 July 2021. It is also worth stressing that this decision has financial coverage, it is expected to cost HUF 19.2 billion in 2021, and this will be available even in spite of the devastating economic effects of the pandemic, thanks to responsible and cautious budget planning and management. The purpose of the allowance is to fully replace the income of the mother who is out of work due to childbirth. This is one of the biggest objections to having children. If a child is born, without substantial public assistance, he must suffer a great deterioration in the standard of living, even though this is the time when there is plenty to concentrate on and spend. The Secretary of State has also mentioned and my fellow Members have said that only 15 per cent of the amount of the family is deducted, so other deductions do not bear this support. Dear Parliament, The family is Hungary's most important resource, as can be seen in the general justification for the proposed amendment. Every Hungarian child whose birth contributes to the survival of the nation is valuable. [[23.30]] I trust we all agree on this one. We support this bill on the part of KDNP. I call on my fellow Members to support you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-238	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-239	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Have you ever seen a car that honks like crazy, but doesn't move an inch? Well, your proposal to raise the baby care fee is exactly the same. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced it on 16 February 2020 exactly nine months ago. That is, the child who was conceived at that time has been born since then. And during that time, Fidesz boasted only and exclusively with this proposal. I mean, they honked the horn a thousand times, but the car, or the bill, didn't go any further. Then, when the budget was submitted next year, it turned out that the baby care fee, i.e. the increase in the family, would be due only from July 2021. If this increase is really important to Fidesz, why do parents have to wait a year and a half for this three - typed proposal? It's very interesting that when you have to hide stolen public money by amending the Fundamental Law or by entering the electoral law, those button-printing fidesz fingers are somehow more agile. I can't get rid of the idea that this delay is just so that by next July you can beat your breasts with this proposal without having to pay a penny. My advice is that the energy that has been spent on the horn so far should try to focus more on progress and on introducing the proposal as soon as possible. But that's not the only problem with this bill. It is also a problem that subjective benefits, children and children are not raised by a single HUF, thus increasing the inequalities between families. For parents who do not have 365 days of prior insurance two years before the child's birth do not qualify for the family, they can only receive a child, which amounts to HUF 28 500, i.e. 25 650 after the pension contribution is deducted. In 2018, the average monthly gross amount of the Csed was 178 903 HUF, when it was calculated from 70 percent of the income. The ched doesn't have a maximum amount, they don't charge, they just withdraw. With the current increase in the ched, the difference between the two benefits will continue to increase. This raises a very serious question as to why the state makes a distinction between a child and a child. But can I ask you, for some reason, shouldn't the child of the one who doesn't work eat? The explanatory statement also points out that, by increasing the amount of the family, the government would support mothers or other children's rights before having children in order not to reduce their income during maternity leave, to receive a higher amount of care than their previous net earnings. So, according to the Fidesz government, anyone who didn't work doesn't deserve any more even if they're having a baby. So according to Fidesz, a child whose parents hadn't worked at least a year before he was born isn't so important to the state? The MSZP supports increasing support for children's children, but we find it unacceptable that the government will further increase inequality between families with children. It is unfair and inhumane to distinguish between the support of children according to the fact that parents had previously declared employment. You're talking about mothers working on their bill, while you can't see what would make more jobs available for women. Tell me, how do you want to improve women's chances of employment? Or do they just have the expectations of the velvet chair for women? Women's chances of employment are much worse. They're talking about working mothers, like a non-working mother isn't even a real mother. It's as if the child should be judged by the fact that his parents worked before. This is unacceptable to us, because all children matter to us. All children should have a chance, not just those whose parents worked before. The MSZP has already initiated a doubling of family benefits, i.e. family allowances, children, children and maternity benefits. In the economic crisis caused by the current coronal virus epidemic, when hundreds of thousands of families became insecure, it would be a minimum to expect from the government. The MSZP wants a state of chance in which all children have the same broad path to the future. None of the children's options can be narrowed down by their birthplace or the family's financial situation. We say that not only child rearing but also the conditions associated with it must be supported. For example, home creation, housing. The individual housing of couples with children should not only be supported by the CSOK available to the wealthy, but also in other ways. The rental system should be developed by the development of social housing. Normative housing subsidies must be re-introduced, because hundreds of thousands of families are still struggling with reclaims. Not only should we support the upbringing of the unborn children, but also those who have already been born. The government cannot pretend that children living today live under the right conditions. We're going to tell you over and over again that all children are equal. All children deserve the same help and support, there is no way to distinguish between them. Therefore, although we are voting in favour of raising the baby care fee, we also add that this is far from enough. If the Hungarian state really considers the help of families and children important, it will consider the proposal of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-17-240	Thank you very much. Now it's time for the head speaker of the Democratic Coalition, Congresswoman Agnes Vadai. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-241	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Many important things have been said in this debate. Let me first welcome the Government's submission of such a proposal. I can say that today is the only proposal that serves the interests of Hungarian citizens in such a critical time. I do not want to remove the importance of the other laws, because obviously there will still be important laws, but this is indeed in the interests of this country. I do not want to open a debate on what is a family, my fellow Members, even because I think that family, at least in my interpretation, is not only a legal category. In fact! That's a very important emotional category. I think that at Christmas we hope that there will be a lot of families in this country together, because at last they will take the necessary measures, such as mass and free testing, and then they may not be sitting at the Christmas table by people who are quite narrow and I must say that they fit into the concept of a narrow family. I think this is an emotional category, and it would be good for this country not to narrow down those who think of themselves as a family, but rather to expand and create this opportunity. I also agree with all the Members, if I have heard correctly, that my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, has spoken about it, but other Members have also mentioned it, who say that the child is the first, that the child is the most important. I do not dispute this, and I even agree with it. What I do not like in this House is that we often know by name who the children are who are important. That is what I would like to emphasise. I think all children are important, it doesn't matter if they're called Rachel, Stephen, or Adam. I don't care. All kids are important. I do not want to live in a country where concrete children are important when this House is making a law. I think it is very good when Mr Secretary of State talks about the need to do everything in the interests of children, and when your minister talks about the fact that the child is the most important, there are as many opportunities as possible for children to live in this country. Then, with all due respect, please make sure that the children's department at Mosonmagyaróvár hospital is able to receive children, because two days ago they said they couldn't receive children. I think we should also make sure that all the children whose parents want him to have the flu vaccine can get it because he doesn't get to all the children today. And I'm asking you very nicely, don't tell me you're gonna make it, because you're not gonna make it. [[23.40]] There's concrete evidence that even if parents ask, they won't get this flu shot. We are very pleased that Prime Minister has received it, but there are children in this country who do not have it. I think it's part of the idea that the kid comes first. I also believe that this proposal, which, as several of my fellow Members have said here, raises the amount of the baby care fee, is a good proposal. Mr Secretary, if you will accept our help in this, I would like to suggest the following. I think this law is almost perfect. The dates should be corrected. I would suggest that, since this was not urgent, it was not required to be submitted in exceptional or urgent proceedings, i.e. on your part this demand did not arise, but what if this entry into force were to take place from 1 January 2021, and since the Government was given the authority from Parliament to the extraordinary legal order before the law could enter into force, such a regulation, with the same text, does not need to be worked, not as on the previous regulation, which could not be issued very quickly, but this regulation should no longer work, and the government would say, and in this we could very much support that it would be from 1 December. I think this is very positive, very forward-looking in this critical, epidemic period, when you can see it, and obviously you can't refuse it, because you can see from the data that there is not only a health and epidemiological crisis in Hungary, but also an economic crisis and the associated social crisis, which, I would just like to say, is not only affecting the poorest people. My fellow Member said that this is obviously a positive step forward for those who had work relations before him, but today, unfortunately, there is poverty in the workforce in Hungary. So today, people who work face the fact that their salary is not enough to make a living. I would therefore consider it very important to introduce this measure in a form of regulation on 1 December. But in addition, and I would also like to propose this to Mr Secretary of State, I think that other means could be used to ensure that this Parliament and the government, with the support of the opposition, will take measures, if necessary, to amend laws, or, if necessary, to resolve this by regulation, which would indeed give children an additional opportunity, an additional opportunity for families. That's what I'd call double the family allowance. I know it's a lot easier to point back at what's been going on in the last decade, and what it was a decade ago. But, Mr. Secretary, today everyone is interested in what is today and what is tomorrow, because what has been, what is now, is already uncertain, not just what will be tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. In this country, my fellow Members, I am not exaggerating when I say that I think that hundreds of thousands of people are lying down terrified and up in fear of what their fate will be, to keep their jobs. From one day to the next, people may be on the street, even those who were planning to have children or are already on their way to having that child. I think that's what needs to be dealt with. I think that's the important thing. Therefore, it is worth sitting here and breaking the request or contradicting the request made by the Speaker of the House or the head of the House, so I would sit here until dawn if we were to discuss together how much the family allowance would be. Fellow Members! The family allowance increased over a decade ago. I'm sure we'll find the source for this form of support together. I'll tell you what, I think we should call off the hunting exhibit, call off the hunting exhibit. I've been spent so far, I can't even say how much. I think that money, believe me, could help a lot of families. I've got a lot of good ideas. I don't think we need an athletic stadium for 200 billion, that's not the case. I think sport is important, I think it should; if the country says, if Budapest says that we need an athletic stadium in this situation, then let's do it. But if you say that the family is the most important, the children are the most important, then I think we should find it, squeeze those resources out of us, and I think there's a resource in the budget that we can do that. And then, Mr Secretary of State, it may be possible not only to raise the sum of the cheds on 1 July, but on 1 December this year. I think it would be very important for public services to be of such quality as to encourage Hungarian citizens, Hungarians, to have children, and to undertake children at home, so that the school is such that they want to send their children to school here, so that health care is such that they want to live here in this country, because they are born Hungarian children, but very many are not at home. And the biggest problem is that these Hungarian children, unlike their parents, may no longer speak Hungarian, and they will not understand what you are talking about here about family and marriage and all these important things. And I want many Hungarian children to understand what you are saying, understand what we are saying, and argue with each other because they are the future generation. And they're not important because they're going to pay the pension because it's irrelevant. They are important, because if we want to maintain this nation, if we want our cultural value, our history, our thoughts, and my fellow Members, our debate over the last ten years or even our debates for the last 24 hours to last forever, then we need Hungarian citizens to have as many children as possible. It's not enough that next July, 1st, you'll be on the rise. It's not enough that the tax on housing, I don't know how much. They're not enough. I think it doesn't matter whether you're married or not, but this could be a faith dispute, and I'm still gonna have that kid without paper, so I'd like to say. Of course, people can be forced into marriage, forced to receive support only then, but they may end up being driven out of the country because they say these people don't want to live here, where there are conditions like this. Wouldn't the point be to create as many big, happy families as possible in Hungary? Isn't that a condition for providing them with real help, especially during such an epidemic? To do that, we need a family bonus increase, and we need free and high-quality services. Secretary of State, the Democratic Coalition will vote in favour of this bill, because we support all the instruments that give people. I just want to ask you, and obviously in your rejoinder you will tell us why you can't do this with the regulation of 1 December and 1 January, why you can't even write up why the family allowance will be raised, why you can't even write that from now on you're really trying to offer quality education to Hungarian students. And we can argue about this, and I would very much like to finally have a sensible and normal, good debate about what quality education should be like, what kind of kindergarten should be like, I think it's an important question of what elementary school should be like, what vocational training should be like, what the university should be like, what you think or what a completely different kind of education should be. This isn't just your case. I would like to say that the children of our voters have to go to these schools, too, and they often don't feel good there. We cannot ignore the needs of our world, our constituents. They also want high quality education. For the record, I think your voters would like a high-quality education. You can't do a fidesz school, and you can't do a DK school. We have to do a national school, a national school that embodies all of us, because it is also a condition for people to have children. And, as my fellow Member has said, yes, there is a need to do something to make access to the labour market easier and more flexible for women. There is much more to be done to protect women and children. This is what the National Assembly was obviously moving forward in this cycle, but it's still not enough. There has to be something to be done to make health services available to these people, to families who take one, two, or any number of children. This is very important, fellow Members, I think it doesn't matter that someone lives in a family with one child or two or three, each family. I think it doesn't matter whether they're married or not, they're all families. These are emotional bonds. [[23.50]] Please, our job here in this Parliament is to find solutions to all kinds of life situations. They'll find a solution from July 1st next year, but I'd be delighted if, in this epidemic situation, if only temporarily, I'd like to be forever, if possible, but raise and double the family allowance to make sure that every child whose parents are asking for a flu vaccine is available to increase the quality of education and health care. Otherwise, this will have a terrible positive effect on Hungary in the long term. We can argue about how many children are born now and how many children are born in 2010; they cannot win this statistical competition yet, to be honest. But let's not argue about this, Mr. Secretary, but let's find the way in which we can achieve, for example, that this social medium, which is given to you, this group, how to receive this benefit from 1 December, from 1 January, legally, and what we have to do together here, at night, at dawn, at weekends, at Christmas, it doesn't matter to me that all the other families can go to Christmas if they do their job, so that it's better for them to receive that family allowance, and this time, double that at Christmas, when they usually, let's say, children get sick, because this happens, they really get quality health care, and that when they go back to school, they get quality education there. And it's not up to the teachers, that's what I'd like to say; it depends on the instrument, it depends on the attitude, it depends on openness. I'd like to ask you to open your hearts and listen to reason, because this is the time. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-11-17-242	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to comment? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-17-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will try very briefly to answer only a few questions that have been raised, and I will mostly try to respond to matters relating to the bill, although I cannot bypass some things so as not to mention them. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai didn't understand everything. His presentation was excellent, and I also support the words he said, but on the weekend, if I heard correctly, the opposition factions asked or demanded that we withdraw the bill that was not related to the crisis, and now she has suggested to us why we did not present it first. The point is that there is a bill on the House's table that is trying to help families again. Congresswoman Gurmai also said that we should not only deal with this, but, for example, take care of home creation. By the way, perhaps two weeks ago in a similar debate we were discussing the creation of a home in the Parliament, then we started discussing two points of Hungary's largest home creation programme: we are introducing 5% VAT, who buys a used or new apartment with CSOK, which will pay zero percent VAT. We are introducing a house renovation program, the government will take over the renovation costs for up to HUF 3 million, we will introduce a tax exemption, and we will support multigenerational home creation, so we can also say that, in addition to family support, we will also support home creation. There have been opposition representatives who have said that we should make another proposal that will try to help families, that is what we will do in the coming period, that we will try to use every means to make proposals that will definitely support childbearing and child rearing. That is what the last ten years have been about, Mrs Dunai said, and Mr László Földi said, and I have also said this, and I do not want to say it again. What we wanted to achieve in 2010 was that we could use all the tools we have to help young people learn, to start a family, to have children, to raise children and to create a home, and that is what we will do in the coming period. I have to say that although it has been said that we can only support or support families in a very narrow way, let us give just one example: in June 2015 we introduced the family home-building discount, the CSOK. Since its introduction in July 2015, until September 2020, in the last five years 154 thousand families have used the family home-building discount, with a total amount of HUF 488 billion, 44 thousand families buying new homes, 101,000 families buying apartments, and 10 thousand families modernising and expanding their existing homes. We'll try our best to get as many people to use it as possible. I will give you another example: 95 percent of those receiving family allowances can take advantage of the family tax reduction and the family tax relief introduced again after 2010. I wanted to avoid it, but I would respond with one sentence to the thought of Mrs Vadai, which said that what was is the past and forget it. I can understand, by the way, that the current opposition representatives would like to forget what was before 2010, and perhaps I am not the one who brings up these examples, but a representative woman has brought up education, schools and health care. In the area of health care, there has been a HUF 700 billion hospital development in recent years. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] , instrument development has also been carried out, and in rural settlements where there is no doctor, we would also like to arrange for the renovation and construction of the service apartments in the framework of the Hungarian village programme, precisely so that they can use these services in the smallest settlements under the right conditions. So what we can say is that we're not introducing a visitation fee or a hospital allowance. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] We are trying to improve health care, and also, returning to schools, if we are already at this analogy, we are not closing schools, but we are trying to improve education in the Hungarian village programme, and besides, education spending exceeds HUF 2240 billion next year, which represents an increase of nearly HUF 796 billion compared to 2010. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Don't lie to me, Mr. Secretary. Don't lie to me.]] So once again, I can understand if I want to forget the period before 2010. Summa summarum, Mr President, I thank you all for your support, if I understand correctly, then all the groups will support this bill, in which I say once again we want to help families with children, with children, and in the coming period we will do everything we can to continue on this path. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-244	Thank you very much. Just for the sake of precision, Mr Secretary of State: Mr László Földi is sitting in the notary seat, but obviously you did not notice that he had come up from his seat to the pulpit. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1995 LVII on water management follows. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/13659. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister István Nagy, Minister of the Agricultural Ministry, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-245	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for the opportunity to present in a few sentences the bill to serve another step in irrigation management. One of the fundamental objectives of the agricultural policy is to spread the use of irrigation farming as widely as possible in order to allow Hungarian farmers to adapt flexibly to the challenges of insufficient precipitation and to improve the efficiency of their agricultural production. Today, about 200,000 hectares of land have a water permit for irrigation, and surveys show that there are between 400 and 500 thousand hectares where they want to irrigate. [[0.00]] This need should be met in the interest of water management, taking into account the quantity and quality of water resources available. In order to achieve the objectives, the Irrigation Development Act was adopted in 2019 and the related Implementing Regulation in 2020. As a first step, we have established the legal basis for promoting surface water irrigation, and the industry continues to urge producers to irrigate from surface water where possible. However, there are areas where surface water supply is not available or can only be used at very high cost, in these areas it can only be irrigated from groundwater. In order to be complex and effective in dealing with irrigation development issues, it is necessary to see the related tasks in one unit. In 2019 a watering management body was established within the framework of the National Centre for Earth Affairs, which can provide an institutional basis for the performance of tasks. According to the 2019 estimate of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy in Hungary, the number of wells for agricultural purposes ranges from 10,000 to 100,000, and a significant part of them have been established and operated without authorisation and have been abolished without authorisation. These wells may pose a risk to the protection of groundwater resources. We should therefore continue to face the fact that the regularisation of wells for agricultural irrigation, despite the measures taken so far, has been an unresolved problem for a long time, and that its settlement has now become urgent, I could say that it has become essential. Experience has shown that the large number of wells that exist and operate without authorisation can be attributed to the complexity of the water permit procedure, the high costs of the necessary technical and legal documents and administrative and service charges, which have led to a large proportion of producers not continuing and continuing the authorisation procedure. Due to the lack of authorisation, the number of wells is unknown, their technical condition and the quantity and quality of water extracted from them are unknown. In summary, no information is available to plan water resources management. In order to increase the efficiency of the agricultural sector, due to the increasing negative effects of climate change, repeated droughts and droughts, it is appropriate that the authority's tasks and powers relating to irrigation activities of increasing importance in agricultural production should be exercised by an organisation on the part of the State, CXIII of 2019 on irrigation management. it may be provided by a statutory irrigation management body. Based on a legislative amendment made by the Ministry of Agriculture, the wallet announces a well amnesty for the previously unlicensed agricultural irrigation wells, which do not reach the first waterproofing layer. The fundamental element of the amendment is that it will make a substantial simplification of the registration of wells for agricultural irrigation and the authorisation of water law, by requiring a simplified data sheet to be reported, if the removal is exclusively from groundwater, the depth of the well does not exceed 50 metres and does not reach the first waterproofing layer. These simplifications also meet the requirements of the Constitutional Court on this subject. In the case of deep watering wells, it provides for authorisation according to previous practice. The basis for determining the condition is that the impact of these wells on groundwater resources is minor as they do not reach the first waterproofing layer, do not affect a water base area, land contaminated with soil or groundwater and can only be used for private irrigation. These conditions define the range of wells that make use of groundwater in both qualitative and quantitative terms. At the same time, in view of their large number, it is absolutely necessary to provide authorities and decision-makers with as wide a knowledge of these wells as possible. This is what the mandatory simplified notification is for. Substantial simplification has reduced costs, time, administrative burden and simplifies the complex authorisation procedure for farmers. The notification is free of charge and does not entail any costs, because it can be done by the farmer on a simple sheet that does not require expert assistance. The data sheet contains basic and technical data of the wells. At the same time as the notification, the water user shall also ensure that the volume of water taken is measurable. The data sheets shall be processed by the irrigation administration, registering the wells. This could lead to a database, a cadastral from which public authorities and water users can also learn about available and used water resources. In addition to wells, this database will contain the technical data of water installations related to irrigation, giving a comprehensive picture of casting possibilities in a given area. This is done without imposing administrative or financial burdens on producers. With the notification and registration, therefore, wells for agricultural irrigation are intended to be fully accounted for over time. In parallel with the inventory, the Authority may plan to check the reported wells in a targeted manner, provide professional assistance to the research operator and continuously provide data on the use of water by measurement. An important factor in the construction of wells is that it can only be done by an expert well drill. Regardless of authorisation, notification, inspection and proper implementation of wells, the main protection aspects regarding the quantity and quality of groundwater resources are therefore maintained. It is introduced as a new element that, in the case of newly established wells, an agricultural irrigation well may be set up, operated and removed without a water law permit where the removal of water is exclusively from groundwater, the bottom of the well shall not exceed 50 metres or reach the first waterproofing layer. The establishment and operation of wells that reach the first waterproofing layer remains subject to a water-right permit, in areas that affect the protection of the water base or its protection area, and in areas affected by pollution of the soil or groundwater, and in areas where several farmers are cultivated by the irrigation well. In such cases, it is absolutely necessary to have public intervention before the establishment in order to exclude the possibility of environmental damage. The amendment therefore gives us the opportunity to introduce a new procedure specifically for agricultural irrigation wells in order to move forward in the development of irrigation farming. We can say that irrigation farming is considered by the state to be an activity of public interest, because not only will it generate individual benefits, but we can also improve the good condition of our environment with balanced, conscious and higher water management activities. Dear House, The legislative amendment proposal and the related measures will facilitate the complex handling of water management related to irrigation development, thus continuing the work started last year. We strive to solve the problem that has been worsening for years, which is the problem of unlicensed wells for both agriculture and the environment. In order to ensure the sustainable development of Hungarian agriculture, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill with their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-246	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Czerván, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! In the parliamentary debate of a year ago in the Law on Irrigation Management, it was also said that according to the current calculations, the provisions of Article 21 (2) of the Act on Irrigation Management were adopted. By the end of the century, the average temperature in the Carpathian Basin could rise by up to three and a half degrees. This year, too, we have seen extreme changes in precipitation and precipitation periods. We can therefore say that there is a strong economic and social interest in the spread of irrigation as an agricultural technology. [[0.10]] One of the priority objectives of the agricultural government for this cycle is to spread the use of irrigation farming as widely as possible in order to allow Hungarian farmers to adapt flexibly to the challenges of insufficient precipitation and to improve the efficiency of their agricultural production. Without irrigated farming, sustainable gardening, seed production, hybrid and sweet corn and field vegetable cultivation cannot be imagined in Hungary. However, this is not just an economic issue, as it is also a matter of national strategy because of our food sovereignty. Our long-term goal has often been to increase the amount of irrigable areas to 400-500 thousand hectares according to the farmer's claims. The Law on Irrigation Management, which entered into force on 1 January 2020, has made significant progress in removing bureaucratic barriers and is of great help to farmers wishing to irrigate from surface water. At the same time, a number of farmers find themselves facing the situation that only groundwater irrigation is a realistic alternative for them, either as a result of geographical and hydrographic conditions or when considering investment costs. This bill takes the next step on the road that we started last year by simplifying the rules for the establishment of agricultural wells and providing for the further fate of existing but illegally established wells. As an innovation, we can look at the notification system replacing the previous authorisation procedure. A well can touch the soil water above or below the first waterproofing layer, or karst water base, due to the properties of the earth below. This is also of particular importance for sustainable water management. I consider it important to approach the bill to pay particular attention to the protection of the environment during facilitations when it only terminates the authorisation procedure for wells below the first waterproofing layer and with a depth of less than 50 metres. Another guarantee is that the well must not touch a protected water base or karst water. In conclusion, in the case of removal of water from groundwater, it is possible to make a simple announcement about the establishment of a well, in which case the supply of water from the precipitation is ensured continuously without prejudice to the water base. With regard to existing but illegally established wells, the bill contains the same set of conditions and notification procedures, as well as excluding fines by declaring well amnesty. This is also very necessary because in order to pass on, it is essential to know the exact number, location and main characteristics of the irrigation wells. Using digital water meters to measure the amount of water extracted, we can get a more complete picture of both the amount of water extracted and the yield of each well. This information may provide a basis for further regulatory decisions. We can say that the number of illegal wells is currently almost invaluable. The lack of information has a crippling effect on the determining authority and limits the possibilities of farmers wishing to water properly. In my opinion, it will be of great benefit to us at a later stage in the process of examining the state of water bodies, the attachment of water resources or the preparation of EU-funded developments. It is expected that it will encourage notifications that the procedure is free of charge and that only a very simple data sheet is required. There is no cost to the process by not having to use an engineering expert. I welcome the amendment made by the bill to the public authority. The tasks related to agricultural wells can be well integrated into the watering agency powers of the National Centre for Earth Affairs. The available information will also be used in the preparation of irrigation development plans. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of this bill, we can take a further step towards irrigation farming and, through this, the development of Hungarian agriculture. I propose and ask all of you to vote in favour, of course the Fidesz Group will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-17-248	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here.
u2020-11-17-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Those who watch us and are present even at a quarter past this time of night, I think it is worth thanking each other separately. Minister, I am pleased that this legislation has finally been tabled. It's two and a half, three years since they scared the well owners, and then there's a pretty messy state of affairs and full-blown communication from the government, the NAK and everyone involved. Then a promise has been made by you that this kind of well amnesty will mean a simplified announcement, which will be free, and will apply roughly these parameters, which we can now see in the legislation, so this is certainly welcome and I am pleased about it. I mean, let's just say I don't understand why it took so long to get a clearer picture of the people involved. I have serious fears, however, about how complete this well register will be, how much you can believe that this census will not mean any extra burden, let us say, to the well owners or users concerned. Well, I've had a lot of negative opinions about this, a lot of fear that's hard to eliminate completely and reliably, because the opposite experience has been in the area of credibility over the past few years. But let us assume the best that in this case there is no need to fear that this cadastral will not be available to the government as a future tax base. And that it is not just the harmonisation of EU legislation that forces us to do so, obviously, that is well illustrated by the alarming figures that we have heard, that the Chamber of Agriculture estimates that the number of wells corresponding to these parameters can be between about 10 and 100,000, which is a brutally inaccurate estimate, and it is perfectly understandable that there is nothing more accurate. So I also think that it is necessary for the state to have a clearer picture, even for the protection of the water base, and at all for the ability of the authorities to grant future licences with appropriate professionalism and proper basis. So with this, I think that there is no problem, but I stress that in order to really get the most complete picture, serious guarantees and serious promises and gestures must be made to those involved, because I feel that there is great uncertainty about this. And indeed, even if we know the number, about how many of these wells there are, it doesn't give us a complete picture of the water quality these wells produce, what water volume, what their condition is, and what their impact on the local water base could have at all. I would be interested, therefore, because this is not included in the legislation or it is unclear what state apparatus will be able to maintain this up to date. I understand that a new authority has been reorganized for this, I say so, but I would like to listen very interestingly to this in daily practice, with an interest in what this will look like. In the same way as this digital measuring device would want to measure the water level of these wells; I think the regulation will contain details of this, but if there is one thing to know about it, how should a well user imagine how this will look, how it will get to him, what will he have to do about it. Or is this an automatism after the announcement? If you could tell me something comforting about this right now, it would be helpful. So, overall, we can support these, and I would stress the importance of environmental protection, and this, as we move forward in time, is becoming more and more important. [[0.20]] So, while taking these criteria into account, I think it is important that citizens be harassed and burdened as little as possible with unnecessary bureaucratic announcements. This part is definitely positive. Turning to irrigation farming for a few reasons, Minister also mentioned that there is a principle in Hungary on some 200,000 hectares, and that there would be a need for 400-500 thousand hectares. I'm sure we could have been up to 800,000 hectares, by the way, but if we had looked at the rural strategy guidelines you have formulated, we should have reached this 400 thousand hectares by 2020, which we are still talking about here in Parliament at the end of 2020 as a very wonderful and goal to be achieved. I would like to draw attention to this, however, that if, even in 2030, only the Members sitting here will talk about the fact that it would be good to reach that 400 thousand hectares, then we will certainly not be any further ahead than the situation of the Danube-Tisza will not improve. As we can see, we do not have the budget foot of this story every year, so we need a much more comprehensive, much more serious budget effort in the European Union or in Hungary to move towards this desired 400 thousand hectares, with very little change in the legislation of 2019 that has already been referred to. I agree with references to crop safety and to increased extreme weather conditions, too, that we should take much more serious steps in this regard. Speaking of irrigation agriculture and bureaucratic obstacles, they are very proud to have them reduced, but I would point out that it cannot be a coincidence that, if I remember correctly, the tender for the development of irrigation was probably the only one that affected the sector, and not that it was not exhausted, but that much of this resource remained. I am sure that not only did the producers concerned, who were potentially affected, lack of interest here, but these farmers probably considered it to be a disadvantage, a more serious obstacle to the development of irrigation, which made them reluctant or unwilling to do so. So I think that there is a lot of work to be done in this area, because even if we look at the frequency of the critical weather situations already mentioned or even the predictions of the future, then there will be a great need for these resources, and I think that we should all have a common goal to make sure that as many producers as possible are able to make use of them, just because of future crop safety and the livelihood of families. To sum up, I will therefore propose to the Jobbik faction that we support this proposal, and if the Minister may be able to respond to some of my questions and concerns, I would like to thank him. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-11-17-250	Thank you very much. Now the lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr László Földi, the notary of the Parliament, gives his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The professional background of the draft law in the Minister's exposé and in the comments of my fellow Member Czerván said that I do not wish to deal with them in detail. What really excites me as a village representative is the story of a 50-meter well, the well amnesty. For me, that's the biggest question in the area, because a lot of phones, letters, e-mails came when we talked about them, that they would be licensed, and they would be, and by the way, there will be, and the engineering fee will cost. I very much welcome this well amnesty, and I very much hope that the simplified data sheet that we will have to fill out for farmers with such a 50-metre well will be able to do it quickly, simply and there will be no disruption in the region. So, on the KDNP's part, we are proposing the adoption of the bill, and I trust that we will use it to create a good law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-17-252	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a serious practice here for some of us in this matter, and many of us have spoken here in Parliament. I remember that I also tabled amendments on this subject when, in the previous term, the Minister was Secretary of State, and I think that many of us have tried with good intentions to solve the problem that was the distinction between the large number of wells drilled, the large number of wells drilled without authorisation, the social, social aspects, the necessity of irrigation management, the need for domestic water and, moreover, the need for water that is important from an economic point of view. I remember that much has been said on this subject here, before the Parliament. Last time, in 2018, the MSZP fraction presented a comprehensive proposal on this subject, which I have also noted. However, I would like to say that the time factor is obviously interesting here, because many times I have been frightened by tens of thousands of people living in the countryside in this particular case, that the moratorium is about to expire, and then they can expect serious penalties. And I am thinking not only of the villagers, but also as a typical suburban problem. I would like to say a few sentences from this Parliamentary resolution proposal, which was last submitted in November 2018. I think that if the Parliament does so, then it will accept this, then we may be able to go a little further today. Obviously, in addition to the fact that similar problems were identified by this proposal at the time, it has set out tasks for the government in five points. First of all: ensure that drinking water is accessible to all people in Hungary at affordable prices and in accordance with the legislation. This was the first point for a reason, as 5 percent of the apartments in Hungary were not connected to the drinking water supply. This figure has not changed since then, so let's say that there has not been any serious resources for this type of development in recent years. Point 2 of this package was to start the government to eliminate water abstractions that were fundamentally damaging to the quantity and quality of groundwater. I think that, obviously, in addition to the important social and economic need for agriculture, this is also an important item. All costs shall be borne by the State, except in cases where there is evidence that the bodies of the State have not been involved in the development of the illegal situation. To carry out the task, set a procedure and a time limit that is realistic to implement. Point 3: The Government must modernise the water rights licensing system, in which it makes use of the option provided for in the European Union Water Framework Directive, under which Member States may exempt water abstractions and reservoirs which have no significant impact on the state of the waters from the requirement for prior authorisation of extraction and storage. In matters relating to drinking water and the use of agricultural water, fees and legal aid should be provided. So we have already formulated this in this proposal for a decision two years ago. Point 4: The government shall establish rules in which the demand for domestic water and the use of water for economic purposes can be clearly separated. The concept of household water needs includes all self-sufficiency water use, i.e. watering of small garden fruit trees and vegetables. Point 5: Promote the desirable expansion of sustainable irrigation by modernising and harmonising the rules on the rights of land and water. In view of this, I can say something similar to my previous opposition colleague, Zoltán Magyar, that we would like to be in a position to support this proposal, because we have identified the social problem itself, and we have been sought by many people with similar questions, and I think that this is a matter to be resolved. [[0.30]] However, I take the view that we do not see that the specific size of the irrigation area and the amount of water abstraction are regulated in this sense. Obviously, this can be dealt with later in government decrees or in many ways, or I don't know what the intention is. In any case, I myself have tabled an amendment here in previous years that would have dealt with this, so it would have determined a scale that would obviously not have allowed water abstraction for profit here for certain large agricultural enterprises. I do not think that this should be the purpose of resolving this particular situation. I think that domestic water needs must be clearly defined and that water use for specific economic purposes must obviously be distinguished from this. It is very clear that this is probably not the issue that will deal with the problems of irrigation farming in itself. We have repeatedly said that during the debate on this issue, I think it was about a year ago, in this subject, a debate here in Parliament, that there would be a need for a great deal more land-drive in Hungary, which could significantly improve agriculture. Obviously, this magnitude should be resolved in relation to the fact that 56 cubic kilometres of surplus flows out of our southern borders compared to what is flowing into Hungary. This situation obviously means that part of this water could be caught, which could improve irrigation farming. In particular, I say that we have experienced very extreme weather events this year. For example, there was a day in Miskolc, my hometown, where within a day the rain was over 100 millimeters. This is an amazing number, by the way, actually more than one-sixth of the annual average precipitation volume, so there are amazing phenomena. I think that if we could keep water better under extreme weather conditions, irrigation farming could be treated more effectively in this way. To sum up, therefore, our position: we need guarantees, I think, in the coming weeks, until the final vote, that the ecological aspects are not affected here. There are forward-looking proposals here, the 50 meters, the first waterproofing layer, they have been said, but also concerning the amount of water and the area concerned, I think we should say something to those who are concerned about green issues. I would like to say to the Minister and to all citizens and fellow Members who are still interested at the height of one, that we would like to be in a position to vote in favour of this proposal, because our fellow countrymen living in the countryside who do not have fixed drinking water, where there is a problem around the house, or small farmers who really help their own existence, the existence of their families, by watering from drilled wells, obviously this kind of procedure must be simplified and adapted so that this thing does not float above them as the sword of Damocles. I therefore ask you, Minister, to take into account what we have said, with good intentions, we all say, I believe, what we are saying, and I very much hope that a proposal like this can finally, even if a little later, as we would have liked, be accepted here in Parliament, which will solve the problem of the social groups concerned. Thank you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]]
u2020-11-17-254	Thank you very much. The leading speaker of the Democratic Coalition, Ms Agnes Vadai, is next. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the rare times that I can talk about an army, family and agriculture in a relatively short time, although I would like to make it clear, as I always do, every time I speak, that I cannot and am not an expert in this area as many fellow Members do. At the same time, I think that it would be very important, and perhaps more than a debate, for Members who are a little further away from agriculture to bring in important aspects that perhaps those who are in agriculture every day may not see or see with such emphasis. I would like to point out that I share the concern of Members who have noted with regard to the warming of the Carpathian Basin that by 2050 a very large part of the country's territory may be dry, and this will basically force us to rethink our agricultural strategy, to rethink the cultivation of plants that are naturally present in the Carpathian Basin. I'm from the lowlands, born in Karcag, I can tell you that it's very warm there, and it's getting more and more often that it's very, very hot in the summer. What is more, I would like to say to this House than the increase in air conditioners, which shows exactly how the Carpathian Basin has warmed up in the last 20-30 years, how Hungary has warmed up. And why is that question coming here? Obviously, it is because it is a bill that is not only about well amnesty, but also about a philosophical issue. And the fact that the minister is the rapporteur and sits in the room personally shows that this question is important to this government. We do not agree on everything, I would like to stress this, but we are not, fortunately, sitting in a party or on a side in this regard, but it must be acknowledged that I believe that the efforts and discussions on irrigation in this House are very important. There are questions on which, for example, my written questions, not to the Ministry, but to my questions to the Ministry of the Interior, I do not get a correct answer, which is a problem, because this is not a political issue. I do not think that watering in Hungary is a political issue. The fact that there are certain changes in mentality and thinking in Hungary is not a political issue is, I think, a national issue. I have to say that, of all the laws we are discussing today, I think this may be something that is really important to people in this epidemic situation, all the more legislative proposals, apart from the Ched, were something that seemed mostly, let me say, puppetry. This is indeed trying to find a meaningful solution for those who have previously established unauthorized wells for agricultural irrigation. Mr. Secretary, I think a few things need to be clarified. The first is that I think we should make it clear either by the Ministry and the Government that this is a one-time, exceptional occasion and send this message to Hungarian society. [[Dr. István Nagy: That's right!]] This is very important because, as the general explanation says, this is the bill and change to the previously unauthorized agricultural irrigation wells. We all know that in order for Hungarian citizens to be legitimists, I think it can happen once or twice in one area. Then it is necessary to establish a clear set of rules and make it clear to citizens what is in the common interest of all of us, so it is not only in the interests of the state, but also of Hungary, and it is in the interests of all Hungarian citizens: follow the guidance that is provided by clear rules, and it is very, very important to have a control system based on this, because let us face it, the ten thousand-hundred thousand is a very large standard deviation. So this could be either a yes or a non-typical case, because the Minister feels it and said that it is quite simply, to say, a quantity, such a huge spread that is unmanageable. So I think it is very, very important that, together with the bill, we send a clear message to the Hungarian society that this is a one-time event, obviously with the right deadlines, the Hungarian Parliament understands this problem, accepts it, announces this wellamnesty, but from then on there are clear rules with clear scrutiny. You are quite pro-police in many cases, and I would also like you to give very clear guidance to citizens in these cases. [[0.40]] The second thing that is very important in this case is to make it clear that fair, law-abiding behaviour is the only acceptable way, to work for someone in Hungarian agriculture, to work for someone in schools, health care or to work in ministries. So if we expect citizens to follow the law, I think that's okay, obviously we expect that from everyone else. I indicated the importance of control. I think this is the alpha and omega of everything, especially the fact that my fellow Member spoke earlier because of the scattering of numbers, that we are talking about 10 to 100 thousand such wells. I think it would be very important, fellow Members, that the government should then, in addition to this bill and the issue of irrigation, develop a decent water strategy and increase the source. Because if I remember correctly, the government has a water management and irrigation programme for the period 2020 to 2030. That's 17 billion forints. [[Dr. István Nagy intervenes.]] Mr. Secretary. They spend more on a hunting exhibition than that. This one's stuck. We can spend the 50 billion very nicely, and who knows how much more. I think it's more important that we settle this issue. Finally, allow me to make it clear in this case: I think that the wallet on this issue is not enough to talk to the Members who are sitting in Parliament, otherwise committed to agriculture, because I would like to say that in the end there are usually only athletes, agricultural and defence workers, so there are so many of us left, and the head of the board as a cultural colleague can contribute to this, but there are no representatives here who are more involved in environmental protection. I think it would be very important, Minister, that, at the same time or perhaps even ahead of well amnesty, environmental organisations that expressed concerns about this bill should consult the wallet very closely. I would like to say that the water is not for the agricultural purse, not for the Parliament, not for those who take it out, the water belongs to all of us. It's a common treasure for all of us, and it's not even for this age group, it's for the future generation. Therefore, we have a huge responsibility for the type of measures we are taking either for irrigation agriculture or for water management to the extent that this value, this treasure that we have in Hungary, even if we see that there are real difficulties, can be preserved for the future generation. Because we will never be forgiven by the growing generation if the short-term political will not dare to think that we are wasting this resource for the sake of voting. So this would be extremely important, Minister, and I would like to ask that, in the next period, when this bill can still be dealt with by Parliament, you really should speak to these environmental organisations so that they can be reassured and not feel that only short-term political goals are driving the government. By the way, you could basically see that there was no debate between the government and the opposition in this matter, well amnesty is extremely important for citizens, but there are quite simply other aspects that I think need to be taken into account and a clear message must be sent to Hungarian society. In this Parliament, moral and legal conduct is important to many Members. Control is important and future generations are very important. I think that if there is a guarantee for these, then this bill will be supported by a unanimous decision by the Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-256	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed as no one has made any further comments. I'll ask Mr. Secretary if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] It's a matter of a great minister. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to answer in a few words, because I owe it to my fellow Members to answer some of the questions raised; because their being here at the late hour was considered important, this is a very good sign for me, and I am very pleased that they have honoured the debate with their presence and their comments and their intention to improve. I thank my fellow Member, Mr Czerván, for his statement of support and for the fact that we fully agree that we are talking about a nation strategy issue, because our food self-determination makes it an infinitely important aspect. Climate change, climate change, we cannot go without saying anything, it has a significant impact on our daily lives. And we can't go past the social phenomenon of having a situation, a gift that we have to solve, and that's why we have to solve it, because if we close our eyes, we'll do a lot more damage to the future generation than we do now with a well amnesty, which will make these wells controlable and visible. Technically, I didn't say it in the introduction, but we see this new system as a monitoring system. By announcing this, by installing smart watches on the wells, we can see the level of water use on a daily basis, we can control it, and this will provide a sufficient guarantee and security for the future. Thank you very much for the contribution of my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar. You're right. This was a troubled situation, and it took us a long time to find a balance between the intent of the farmers to irrigate, their economic interest, environmental protection, the question of social concerns, the right of those who are concerned about the future generation. 'Cause the only way we're gonna have a good law is if we find a balance here. And this, because it involves a very wide range of society, requires very broad consultation in order to find the right solution. He asks how complete this well register will be, and how much farmers will announce how much they trust the government to announce it. I really hope they can sense that we're doing everything we can to make sure that it's legalized and that these wells are normalized. We come to them with an offer that if they do not live with, then it is legitimate to deceive them into the fists of the law. That's the thing. So we must offer the farming community an offer that they can say is dialogue, assistance, shake hands and solve this problem to everyone's greatest satisfaction. And I think it's extremely important that we do. What kind of state apparatus is gonna do? Staff from the Ministry of Interior will come to us, to the Ministry, who previously dealt with the construction, control and licensing of wells. These employees become employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Centre for Earth Affairs, precisely to carry out these tasks. How will it work? They asked me. We're going to install smart watches on these wells, which the owner, the owner of the well, if he doesn't have a smart watch, not a digital and not a wi-fi connection, he's going to give us twice a year a report about him, which he makes on a very simple data sheet, so that we can process it in the well register, but we want to make sure that if we can get that European Union resource to him, we can provide virtually everyone with a smart clock that automatically provides the data to this well register through Wi-Fi. [[0.50]] He asked how we were going to stand by 2030 and how we were going to move forward, and this was also about money. Let me share with the House one of the government's intentions, which I think will immediately show us that we are moving into a different dimension. So far, we have decided to spend 17 billion dollars a year on infrastructure development for ten years, and now we want to make a €1 billion out of the New Generation programme for the next two or three years. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] In order to make as much investment as possible so that we can make a truly substantial, one-off, huge investment, we can make substantial progress in the field of irrigation. Why are Irrigation Proposals stuck? The question was asked. Yes, because it was an earlier issue, and it didn't meet the upper limit that they could have applied for, because a watering project costs a lot of billions of forints, and the 500 million forints that were the ceiling for this proposal didn't allow farmers to have it. This invitation to tender before the new Law on Irrigation Management imposed administrative obligations, licensing and planning obligations on the farming community, which they did not accept because of its preciousness, due to its administrative burden, and it seemed virtually impossible and impossible for farmers to do so. Well, that's what we've changed now, because the new 20 billion-dollar sign works on completely different terms and parameters, and we really hope that it will play the role that we want it to do. Thank you, Mr László Földi, for your comment. Indeed, people are interested in these parameters, how this will all work, and how they will have well amnesty. I am pleased to announce that everything that is laid down in this legislation, what my fellow Member has asked for, can be achieved. I would say to my fellow Member, Mr László Varga, that there was a little mix-up on this issue, because what we wanted to regulate now was the question of irrigation farming, and I can interpret that you meant the people on the farm, where there was no water on the land, where they had to solve it to have a well drilled. This is, of course, how it can be interpreted and resolved. I must state that in any case, and this is very important, and I would like to put away any doubt that there is neither free water nor household quantity. EU ex ante requirement not to be free of water abstraction. However, the Hungarians have never been hit on the head either, because the amount of water supply contribution should be set and adjusted according to the practice so as not to exceed the average level of irrigation, and then this issue will be completely fine. He asked for the guarantees. You're right, we have to maintain the guarantees, because the ecological systems are not damaged. This is basically what water watches can provide, since we see these daily consumptions, we see how they can be used. I can say that, yes, I completely agree, amnesty is a once-in-a-lifetime, exceptional occasion, because this can be supported with a good heart, and this is a guarantee that we must shake hands with the farming community and say that it is an exceptional occasion for them, and that an opportunity must be taken, and after that, it must be verified, because we also have a responsibility for the generation that wants to farm after us. And I also agree that fair, law-abiding behaviour is the only acceptable way, as legislator, as a Member, there can be no other position. With regard to the water strategy, I have already indicated the new opportunities in the previous comment on the money, but I fully agree with that, and our current task and this is now a very important task of the Ministry to socialise on this issue, that it cannot, because we will fail to understand if the more sensitive thinkers, who are more sensitive to the future, need to be able to reassure them that this is not happening uncontrolled, not out of control, but in controlled conditions. And when I say 50 meters in emphasis, it really doesn't matter, it's the first waterproofing layer that can't be more than 50 meters deep, but the first waterproofing layer, but if it's 25, you have to stop there because you can't compromise the drinking water base, and that's a very important aspect. Those with a particular sensitivity to environmental and nature protection must also realise that there is a much greater risk of loss and danger that if we do not announce this amnesty now, we will not make water use controlable and predictable if we want to introduce a more stringent system, let us say, because then farmers will not be partners. Here comes the suggestion of my fellow Member of Hungary that the farmers will be partners. I have to say, it's in their best interest, because all they can get is a worse offer. So if we succeed now in the social debate that must come beyond the professional debate in Hungarian society, if we can fight this battle wisely, then we are taking a very important step to be responsible for our sustainable future, for the sustainable environment and for living in the coming time. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-11-17-258	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish follows a series of steps. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/13650. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2020-11-17-259	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for the floor. The T/13650 in front of you. Proposal for a Law on fish management and the protection of fish CII of 2013 contains an amendment to the Act. The Law which entered into force on 1 September 2013 was a conceptual shift by promoting the value and protection of fish stocks as a renewable natural resource, as well as by favouring fishing as a recreational activity against fishing. This was confirmed by the amendment generally supported by the Parliament, which also ended the issue of commercial fishing licences from 2016. This was also the purpose of the amendment voted by the overwhelming majority, which, from the end of 2015, created the opportunity to settle the exploitation of the right to fish management for the Hungarian State, so that the right to fish management of certain registered fish management waters could be transferred to the Hungarian National Fishing Association by way of a lease agreement, by direct designation, i.e. without a tender. For the purpose of deregulation and practical operation, on 1 January 2019, Mohos was directly assigned to the fees representing the main public revenues of fisheries management and to the public tasks to be carried out using this resource. Overall, these changes have been successful, which clearly shows that the number of registered fishermen is now over 700 000. The need for amendments to this bill is primarily justified by the application of the law, a summary of the practical experience gained through public service activities and the completion of the basic concept of the law. The amendment also provides for a consistent definition of the disability in the event of an exemption from the public fishing test or the conversion of a free public fishing ticket, the regulatory background for issuing an electronic state fishing certificate, and the clearance of the register of fishing certificates. [[1.00]] The linking of the identification number of fishermen to the data of the person prohibited from changing state fishing and fishing tickets helps to apply consistent law by eliminating certain identification problems. It is incorporated into the law as a new provision that, during the course of the procedure for imposing a fish protection penalty, false reporting will not be possible to issue a new fishing document to the person subject to the procedure. The five-year fishing management plan and the current lease contract will serve as an administrative and bureaucratic reduction measure. The draft ensures that sound and image recording is possible throughout the monitoring activities of professional and state fish guards, with precise technical clarification. By way of the amendment, the law excludes access to the re-management right of the pre-profit-owner concerned in a given water area if it fails to comply with the commitments contained in the successful tender in the exercise of the pre-lease right. In relation to the fulfilment of the public mission of Mohosz, the amendment also clearly identifies all public tasks identified by law in terms of target assets, clarifies the objectives and tasks eligible from public service sources, clarifies and unifies the scope of the right holders. In addition to the plan, the deregulation and simplification of the draft will eliminate fish-based compensation in the event of a change of the fish management holder and address the conservation plan for endangered indigenous species, which will be available to all stakeholders in a form published on the Ministry's website instead of a ministerial regulation. The bill also contains a number of technical clarification amendments and additions that are essential for practical operation. Dear Parliament, The legislative proposal submitted on 10 November mainly contains additions and technical clarifications which, in line with the original concept of the law, serve the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks treated as renewable natural resources and as a recreational activity to expand fishing and fishing tourism. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill on the grounds stated and then adopt it afterwards. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-260	Thank you very much, Minister. There are speeches to be made by the Chief Speech. The lead speaker of Fidesz is the first, Congressman Czerván to give his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Minister. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The proposal before us now regulates the conditions for the exercise of the right to fish management, the activities in and on the shores of fish management waters in Hungary and in fish production facilities, the activities related to the management of fish, the conservation of fish and its habitats, and the operators of fish and water facilities in particular, as well as those using the fisheries water area and its shores, the rights and obligations of water users, the tasks and powers associated with the management of fish and the conditions for trade in fish and fish products, and therefore quite a lot. It is a legislation which, when it was adopted and amended so far, has been supported independently of parties, and time has also demonstrated that the consistent application of the means for achieving the objectives set has produced significant results in the sector, whether fish producers, fishermen or the sector's service industry. The Law 3. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Act, the fish stocks of Hungary's fish management water areas are national treasures, natural assets and economic resources, which society must protect and promote natural renewal, and their exploitation must be planned and implemented in accordance with sustainability criteria. Article 5 The development of fishing and fishing tourism shall take precedence over other modes of exploitation in the management of fish management water. The main range of planned changes is the operation of the Hungarian National Fishing Association serving through the National Fishing Organization Service Centre as a public task since 1 January 2019, in order to ensure the exploitation of several hundred public water areas, the registered fishing organisation, the 26 member associations, the members of the company with special status, and nearly 2000 associations, which have passed over 700 thousand people. The spectacular expansion of the Hungarian fishing community in the last four years meant an increase of more than 125 thousand people overall. It should be pointed out that, based on the data produced from the fisheries association HORINFO system, the active age groups are now in the majority of sports fishermen and, in addition, the proportion of women has been growing dynamically in recent years. Today, fishermen are Hungary's largest networked civil society organization, with 99.8 percent coverage at national level. The central system provides more and more electronic services, making it easier for anglers to manage and obtain information. Further practical amendments, clarifications and simplifications are the professional initiatives of the Agricultural Ministry and Nebih with the agreement of the Inter-sectoral Professional Organisation of Fish Producers, Mahal. Dear Parliament, Based on the practical experience of public service provision in the first year, in the first days of November, the agricultural minister and the leadership of Mohos reviewed the tasks, including legislative steps to further dynamicise the sector at the same time as at the level of law and regulation, from 1 January 2021, while also helping to transform the structure of fish production, support fishing tourism and network development. By clarifying the public inventory of 23 main tasks and the related provisions, all tasks which serve the needs arising from the practice have been recorded. Most of the other amendments are technical clarifications or replacements, and I would not go into the details of them now because of time-saving. Dear Parliament, On the basis of facts and daily experience, the government rightly considers that fishermen have proved in recent years that state-owned natural waters are in good hands with them. In the new cycle of the Mahop habitat development, and in the case of fishing tourism and basic infrastructure development, the practical implementation of the government decision on the national fishing management and fishing strategy and the national fishing network programme has the potential to take a new level of recreational, recreational and sport activities, domestic and international fishing tourism, the development of the background industry and the gradual repositioning of quality Hungarian fish production and fish gastronomics. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the proposal, and I ask you to do so, because it is a good and socially useful amendment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-17-262	Thank you very much. It is now time for the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Adam Steinmetz. Here. [[1.10]]
u2020-11-17-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, First of all, I thank you for coming to us at this late hour, so that you would come to us at 8:15 a.m. and personally present this proposal. I can see from this that this is because this law is important to you, and it is important to listen to our opinions, perhaps our criticisms, in order to ensure that legislation is as precise and as high as possible. I think we know each other so well that you know I'm a wet man, and my heart is fish, and I'm a Balaton fish, so it's a special pleasure for me to be a lead speaker on this subject. I've been a Member of Parliament for two years, and I've always been a fan of honest speech, and I'm used to raising my arguments in the tone of respect. And we are people, my honourable fellow Members, politicians, but people, and I really appreciate your appreciation and thanks. Not so long ago, I received a thank-you from Bence Rétvári, because the biggest problem in my constituency, in the case of the hospital in Marcal, I acted and acted on several occasions, and the government seems to hear and appreciate this kind of engagement. So let us be generous and allow me, Minister, to appreciate it and thank you, on behalf of the lake farms, fish farmers, and to express their request, which, this spring, were in difficulty through market disturbances caused by the coronal virus epidemic, and, among other things, were able to solve their problems with your help and hundreds of millions of forints of public contributions, and to sell the fish that could have been extremely difficult. I would add that, since most of these fish have gone into our living waters, fishermen have also benefited or profited from it to this day. They will be the beneficiaries of the better catch. And speaking of which, they'd be very happy if this wasn't just a case-by-case intervention. Help the state to ensure that fish stocks of 17-18 billion forints per year produced in Hungary, of which 30 percent is exported, can be found locally, and this is done by promoting fish consumption on the one hand. This would also be helpful because exports will increase production and generate significant costs for producers. It would be much more reasonable if this could be sold at home and the Hungarian State could help. Thank you for that. But not only because of this, but also because I have contacted several angler organisations and associations in recent years, as well as fish farmers and farmers. They basically welcome these amendments, and some even said that they were included specifically at his request. I am very pleased that the agricultural portfolio asks for the opinion of the profession, but not only does it ask for it, but it also accepts it. It's not like every wallet. I ask you to keep this good habit in the future. On the basis of the bill before us, the amendment of the Law on fish management and the protection of fish: in general, it can be said that this amendment clarifies, updates, makes certain corrections, which is indeed necessary, despite the legislation taken with the greatest goodwill over the last six years. Life brings things that we have to respond to. This is, on the one hand, rationalising and, on the other, sanctioning. There have been sanctions, more severe sanctions than before. But Jobbik has always been on the side of order, and we consider it important to follow the law. I think that those who have not yet sinned against the law will not, and those who have done so will not, and those who have done so may be discouraged by these changes. Basically, I would like to make two criticisms about the law. One concerns the fishing community. The lack of IT tools is still a problem for many investigative fishing associations and fisheries associations. They can take part in state examinations from January, but this lacks an IT equipment park. That's the laptop, the tablet. We ask for this, and we hope that Mohos will find a suitable solution, because, once again, I would like to stress that it is possible to take an examination in principle from January, but the background to this is practically not available in many places. The other concerns the lake farms, the fishing industry. Specifically, the present legislative amendment proposal 16. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 provides that the fish management authority shall impose a fish protection penalty on a person who installs alien and locally absent species in a fish production facility without authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, It's really professional. You must know which is the native fish, which is invasive and which is not native. And it is true that these fish are undesirable in our living waters. This has to be resolved, because these fish are often transferred from the lake farms, unwittingly. However, it should also be seen that, for example, many of the lake farms in southern Balaton are engaged in significant amur and bush production. By the way, none of these are native Hungarian fish. The production of these fish is said to be highly desirable. It is desirable because it has a beneficial effect on the quality of water, on the one hand because the buse consumes the plant ingredients, it can often eat even more than once a day. This is not good in Lake Balaton, because it destroys the reeds, but in the lake farms. And if I may, I would also like to give a brief account of the beneficial role of the buse. This, in turn, consumes the certain blue algae, the toxic plankton that makes carp and noble fish taste mud after preparation, and which the Hungarian cuisine does not like. The average annual fish consumption in Hungary is probably this low, 6.5 kg/person, because such fish can also be marketed. In addition, these fish increase biodiversity, which is also important in the habitat. There is also an economic aspect, namely that these are so-called cheap fish. These are the fish that, when processed, create an excellent culinary experience, and on the other hand, small-money people can access it. If these fish are discriminated against by the introduction of this legislation, then these people will almost certainly not convert to 2500 forint carpfil as a substitute product. Therefore, this does not favour the consumption of fish, nor does it favour the producers of fish. I therefore consider it worthwhile to make an exception to the white and petty busa and the amur, in view of what I have just said. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister and my fellow Members who participated in the debate at this late hour for their criticism and comments, and I very much hope that the tradition of continuing professional debates in the work of the Committee on Agriculture will continue and that laws of the highest quality will be drawn up. I trust that I have been able to contribute to this with constructive criticism. I hope you'll listen. Thank you so much for listening. [[1.20]]
u2020-11-17-264	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP now, Mr László Földi, is the notary of the Parliament. Here.
u2020-11-17-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. I would like to draw your attention to an important legislative and social change. A provision based on the conservation of fish in natural waters has been replaced by a sectoral law that can be considered as a prey-centric. This has created the opportunity for responsible fish management and has served the renewable capacity of fish stocks effectively. The Parliament said: "The fish stocks of the fish management water areas of Hungary must be national treasure, natural value and economic resources, which society must protect and promote natural renewal, and its exploitation must be planned and implemented according to sustainability criteria. In this spirit, the subsequent amendments ceased to issue commercial fishing permits, and the right and responsibility of fish management were transferred to the Hungarian National Fishing Association. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment before this House contains further clarifications and additions which take into account the legitimate needs that have arisen since the last changes. I highlight changes in the state fishing test and the free state fishing ticket and the extension of electronic administration. Dear House, Even in legislative circles, the fact that there are over 700,000 registered fishermen in Hungary may surprise us. This is a huge number, it also shows Parliament's responsibility. When it comes to the protection of fish, the management of fish, the regulation of fishing activities, we need to create the provisions of an area of law that indirectly affects millions of people. That is why it is important to review this legislation from time to time and to introduce further clarifications and additions. Some of these are technical, but let us not underestimate this indicator, this is not the synonym for unnecessary, but on the contrary: these are changes that are essential for practical operation. Dear House, On this basis, KDNP supports the adoption of the draft law and we propose this to this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Nagy applauds.]]
u2020-11-17-266	Thank you very much. Now, Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament. Here.
u2020-11-17-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would also like to thank you for being here with us at this late hour and for trying to answer our questions. I would not be as long as I was at the previous item, and I obviously went back in time because I had several amendments there, and there was a proposal for a resolution, and I tried to give it a little more perspective, because it is really about more than the previous proposal in a broad sense. His present background and environment were indeed heartwarming to many. The number of registered fishermen has increased very, very much in recent years, here we know about a number of 700,000, which is a very serious increase in the last three years, and it has also been observed here even during the most difficult periods, so in spring, too, that there has also been an increase in the number of fishermen. From this point of view, I therefore think that, of course, it is a good endeavour that there are, and there may be, proposals of a technical nature, continuous progress, and that the specific relevant legislation must be kept under constant review. However, I must say in this regard that our faction is now examining the proposals in this period, in the middle of the epidemic, how timely it is to deal with one issue and perhaps a little later or the end of the most difficult period of the epidemic. I think, and I say with great respect to the Minister, that, in contrast to the previous proposal, this might require some rethinking, and there would be time to do so, and there is no urge, perhaps, on this particular issue. Let me mention a few aspects of the proposal, which might be the subject of a rethink, or if you are already going through the Parliament, then perhaps the change. I, too, believe that compliance is very important and of prime importance. At the same time, especially in a situation where so many people are affected by this particular issue and more and more Hungarian citizens are concerned, it may not be the most important issue to increase the amount of the fish protection penalty so drastically during this period. This issue has also been raised for those experts with whom we have been able to speak on this issue, but once again, the law-abiding behaviour is important, but it is not certain that this is the time for this issue. Here the law also regulates the replacement of lost and destroyed documents for several questions and charges, and it can also be said that the administrative burden for fishermen is partly increased, not only by this, but also by other points in the proposal and the introduction of procedural fees. So we think that this proposal actually includes a load increase from retired fishermen to young fishermen, so since this issue is so broad, and the vast majority of the fishing society does not necessarily come out of the top tens of thousands of people, we therefore suggest that the Minister consider that these passes of the package should now be introduced in the middle of an epidemic. We ask you to reconsider this part of the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-17-268	Thank you very much. The leader of the Democratic Coalition is Ms Agnes Vadai. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that all those sitting here today can be two types of people: those who are very committed to fishing, and who love it very much and do it, or people like me who admire those who love this activity, however, consider it important to address the issue of fish farming and aquaculture at this early hour. Minister, you know I have put a number of written questions on this subject, but rather, on the side of consumption, and on the point that Congressman Steinmetz has also said, with regard to intervention buying-in. I would also like to welcome and encourage the Ministry to help this sector as much as possible, because it may be possible to meet the desirable need to make the consumption of fish as much as possible, and indeed Mr Steinmetz spoke about it. I have already indicated on several occasions, in the context of written questions, that it is worth considering how to make fish consumption more widespread through mass feeding. Today, everyone on Lake Balaton is eating the Balaton heck, and I'm sorry to say this, but we know exactly that it's not the world that really ought to define consumption. If we are looking at the bill itself, Minister, let me draw your attention to the fact that, although there really are a lot of fishermen in this country, and it is indeed very important that the technical experience of the past period can be carried over, I do not feel that, like Mr Varga, this is a problem and a task that should be solved now. I would prefer to focus our efforts on intervention buying in and helping this sector and other sectors of agriculture, because that is what I think is important. [[1.30]] However, the proposal will be fundamentally supported by the Democratic Coalition faction. I only have one question. There are a lot of things I don't know about in this regard, and I would like to emphasise once again that I am not really a fisherman, and I am not a fisherman at all. Article 19 The provisions on entry into force are laid down in Section 2 of this Article and set out as from 1 January 2021. There's only one exception, it's 17. § (q) which would enter into force on 1 February 2021. Can you tell me, Minister, why this is necessary with regard to such a not-so-long bill? Perhaps, Mr Czerván, but the other Members have also indicated that the proposal is actually taking life experiences over to change the last period. So, it's not a long bill, why is it even necessary to have two entry into force provisions and not so much difference? I would like to ask you, Minister, while you have seen in the last hour that the Members sitting here are quite committed to agricultural matters, I think that there are few areas in which such a civilised, normal professional debate can take place, because this is typically not the norm, and this is not the decisive factor in submitting proposals to Parliament that alleviate the economic and social crisis caused by the epidemic caused by Covid in agriculture. We will face this, we will face it, while there is indeed an area where we do not, but there will also be social layers within agriculture that will face this very quickly. If the government does not answer this, the whole country will be in a lot of trouble, not just the government, no misunderstanding, because agriculture not only gives the government opportunities, tools, livelihoods, but also the whole country, the population. This is the area, and we talked about it earlier, a national strategy area. So if there really is a national strategic area, I think it's agriculture, because you have to eat whatever happens. Minister, you remember how many problems you yourself faced in the spring when it came to food delivery. So I would like to ask that your existing positive energies, please also focus on finding as many solutions as possible within the wallet to this sector, in particular its victims. It is clear that we have not yet reached the end of the roof, and that the real economic and social crisis will follow. It's obviously a hobby. Unfortunately, it's only between 5:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Many, therefore, were somewhat wagging their heads, for all I know is that fishing is not so social, it takes a sufficient distance to do so. But obviously, that will be decided by those who know best. However, I would like to ask you to present, in addition to such legislative proposals, those which really provide a solution for citizens, especially those living in agriculture, in this crisis of economic and social crisis. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-270	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. As a representative requesting a normal word, MEP Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik may speak. Here.
u2020-11-17-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Fellow Members! I would not like to start my speech with the nice words, because my fellow Member Steinmetz has already said the positive things that I could, by the way, say about the legislation before us and which are really eligible chapters. I would like to start by saying that when we were last able to discuss this topic in detail, when the 2013 Act was adopted in its original adoption, we Jobbiks were very badly beaten. We supported the legislation at the time, and this was also justified by the vast majority of the paragraphs in it. At the same time, in the debate, I asked your predecessor, Minister Fazekas, what will happen to the 170 families of fishermen, who, after the entry into force of this law, are faced with a rather difficult situation, since by law they cease to earn a living, which has typically been driven from father to son for many generations. Then I came up with two suggestions. On the one hand, I asked the House that Jobbik, of course, also takes into account that the world has shifted towards fishing and affects a much wider social layer, whose needs need to be taken into account in the first place, so there is nothing wrong with that, but once the Hungarian state, because of the decision of the Hungarian Parliament, loses the livelihood of these 170 families, at least their means should be compensated. It was one of the things I brought here as their demands, before the House. The other was the proposal to terminate this profession on an outgoing basis. So either one or the other condition must be that they do not lose their livelihood from one moment to the next, but that the Hungarian state does not grant new permits to fish in natural waters, but that the existing ones can run out as long as they think they want to pursue this in health. None of them have been implemented, no forints have been compensated, and the fact is that I have the suspicion that, unfortunately, there is more than suspicion that you are playing for nothing than the five years, and after 1 January, you will have no legal basis to enforce this claim against the Hungarian State. This time, I would encourage them not to wait these five years and fight for their right. Only because, specifically, several ministers and half a dozen ministers of state from three ministries have promised to solve their problems in a wide range of places. These were my written questions, my speech, the speeches of my fellow opposition Members. In the government briefing, I can quote in particular the question of journalists long-term the promises that have been made, and so far they have been nothing. On my last suggestion, about three weeks ago, Secretary of State Sándor Farkas went so far as to call all 170 fishing families practically rapsics. Even if there was one among them who did something like that, it was obviously caught by the force of the law, he was punished. It may have been, but I don't know it, but it certainly doesn't justify anyone, not even a secretary of state, to classify 170 families that way, and to practically wipe out their legitimate claim. There was a promise for them that they would be offered a job, and I'm telling you that didn't happen. I've spoken to fishermen who have visited the most diverse bodies of the Mohos nationwide. Really, speaking of Mohos, I am looking for or looking for Congressman Lajos Szűcs, but he is obviously not in the Hungarian Parliament. Why would the president of the Hungarian Fishing Association be involved in the debate of the Fish Management Act and the debate of the Fisherman Law? That was a rhetorical question, of course. He too was not so generous to the fishermen face - to - face and practically sent them to a warmer climate. I wouldn't quote you right now, because I wouldn't even be able to say the word he used against these people. So I think it is very unworthy and humiliating, the way the Hungarian state was dealing with them, especially in the light of the mass of promises I quoted at length in my speech at that time. I would therefore like to have an answer to this, because it is practically linked to this legislation, since it is an amendment to the 2013 law where they have failed to address this problem. It would be very good if Minister could say anything reassuring about this. It's really not just about these 170 families, it's about the credibility of the state, the seriousness of the Fidesz government, and that if you look someone in the eye and promise them something, you can keep it, and you can keep it. So much for these fishing families, whose personal tragedies and the period since then could still be analyzed for a long time, but it really is not the subject of this law, and I would certainly not want to detail it at 2:30, so we will have a way of doing this. [[1.40]] I told you about the Mohost. I would also like to draw attention to abuses here, for example, in the Minister's constituency, that if a fishing pond, such as Lőrinc Mészáros, was acquired, then, with the cooperation of Mohos, all fishermen could be impossible in practically one day for a daily fee of 23,000 HUF, which would be expected for a day's fishing. So I don't think it's a good way to help private interests, even Mohos. You should pay attention to this, whether it's Lőrinc Ripper or anyone else. If it is the elimination of natural waters and fishing, I am genuinely concerned, and I have already explained in the original debate of the law that there is something to be done with invasive species. And here I am mainly talking about the harmful species of eggs or other invasive species, which, due to the completely inadequate nature of fishing, are targeted at other species of fish, that is natural. But this is exactly where the importance of a conservation fishery would come in, as it may be appropriate to create, say, a selective fishing that can specifically focus on the enemies of the Hungarian native fishfauna in order to maintain our waters. This is really very necessary, in general, in all our natural waters. Also, with reference to late hours, I would not agree to, say, what kind of mortality has occurred in the last decades among aquatic molluscs or indigenous crabs in our waters, which have been accelerated over the past few years. In both groups, indigenous species have virtually disappeared, and most of these problems are caused by invasive species and the diseases they cause and transmitted. And unfortunately, it looks like the fish have turned in this direction as well. There are serious researches about the bad rates in our natural waters that are beginning to develop and how the whole thing is turning to the benefit of invasive species. So I would like to return here again to the fact that fisheries do have a role to play, even from the nature conservation side. But I also meant what I have repeatedly said before, that I would call for an international fight and encourage the government to defend the Hungarian fishfauna. I am thinking of the historical sin here that, since the Iron Gate was built, there has not been a Hungarian government who has been at the forefront of the initiative that basically marine sturgeon species can return to the Szigetköz to quote again the Minister's constituency or the Tiszahat, and we will reach a state that for centuries was natural for the Hungarian great rivers, the Danube, the Tisza and the rest of them to swim up 3-4-5 million motherfish to try to procreate successfully. And that, I don't have to tell you what other useful aspects it would have to offer, especially, in our riverside settlements and in the fishing and fishing community. I now feel that it could be a project, a freedom fight for the government, to which the international atmosphere has given us, because when it would not be more timely to come up with such a natural environmental initiative than at a time when the age spirit would help work in this direction. And then we have not talked about the problem of Hungarian spawning sites and their impact on the whole ecosystem. Here too, very serious promises have been made, and this is also linked to tourism, fishing tourism, because not only will our country be a fishing paradise if we continue to install the fish, species of fish, but these populations will be able to survive and even reproduce from their own breeding. We also have a lot of work to do here, which I would also encourage the government to do, and on which, in particular, only promises have been made. We have heard from many of my fellow Members here about fish meals and fish consumption very closely. I would also like to underline the brutality of the struggles... and I do not take the credit of the government, because there was also a state-supported campaign encouraging the consumption of fish. I certainly think this is a good thing, but this has come to an average annual consumption of 6-6,5 kilograms, a significant part of which, in fact, is sea fish, while the European average is somewhere around 20 kilograms, if I remember correctly. So there's still a lot to do, especially given that this wasn't always the case. There are studies that suggest that during the significant period of Hungarians' stay in the Carpathian Basin, a higher proportion of the average human protein intake was derived from fish. Where are we today? And then, when you talk about the fishing families and the whole problem, you always have the question, especially given the government's past, what interests might have motivated you to find a scapegoat in 170 families, and they've been cheated. On the one hand, it's obviously about getting a vote, because the fishing society is a much more significant voting camp, and we have to give them what goes on, and there's no debate between us. Tourism is also an important aspect, especially since there has been serious investments in this area by government-to-government entrepreneurs, but it is also noticeable, and I know this from the owners of the old lake farms that since fishing was banned in natural waters, and basically scapegoat training, there have been significant government-to-government interests in lake farms since then, interestingly, subsidies have also started after it. So it's definitely a calculating attitude here, which I don't think is a good phenomenon. So, if every sector has to wait for state aid until some kind of government-wide business appears, I don't think it's a normal country. Finally, it is a thought that this intervention was in spring in relation to the purchase of public fish. Here I would urge Minister to consider restarting this programme, since the same kind of shopping panic, the kind of shopping fever and subsequent supply difficulties may not have occurred on the shelves as in the spring, but the health situation itself and the resulting general social and negative economic consequences may be more serious than in the spring; and we can already say that health care is much more serious. So it would certainly be worth monitoring this area, coordinating with the lake farms, and we ask that the state be ready to launch such an intervention programme at any time, even if we can trust that the Christmas season will solve this issue on a market basis, but the government will pay attention to it if it is necessary to intervene. I wanted these briefly for this late or early hour to be told, and I would be very happy to finally find an answer to why it is not possible to compensate those who have been promised this through several ministers, through several state ministers, and perhaps to play a role in reducing invasive species, which can be reassuring to everyone. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-17-272	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Minister, as rapporteur, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Minister István Nagy has the floor, here you go.
u2020-11-17-273	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. I would like to use it for a few words, because I would like to thank my fellow Members for their activities, opinions and contributions for giving their views on this law and for their questions on how to improve this proposal. [[1.50]] I can safely say that we made the right decision when we added our natural water surfaces to the management and maintenance of fishermen, as they show all this in the changes in ecology, in the changes in fish wealth and species wealth, how proximity to nature has changed and how many people have become much closer to nature on the way to fishing. So it was definitely a good decision, and thank you very much to Secretary of State Czerván for confirming and bringing this up. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, for his opinion and for his comments, and it is always good to talk to him about fishy topics, because he is a very committed, enthusiastic man who is very committed to the life and blood of the Balaton fish, and that is a very good thing, because it is very inspiring and very useful. I would like to point out that the government is making efforts to increase fish consumption, because socially, healthly, it would be important and useful in any way. That's why you've got to get on with it. The programme, financed by the Agricultural Marketing Centre with the Agricultural Ministry, or the fish Friday, with which we would like to return it to society at the level of practice, is customary, so that if it is Friday, then fish consumption, and thus help to have it. Thank you for your recognition in support of the lake farms at the time of the corona virus epidemic, because it was an important aspect and thank you for indicating that, yes, those in the profession, farmers support these proposals, because we have concentrated most of their comments and their professional aspects in connection with this amendment. Criticism was the lack of IT tools, and I think Mohosz will be able to help with this through its proposals starting in the spring. With regard to the amur and the busa, and here the issue of authorisation is very important, and I have to say that it is not subject to authorisation, so it has been possible to install it so far, and it can still be the amur and the busa, they are also the exception to our international rules. So let's send a message to the lake farms from here at this late hour that it is possible to install amurt and busa in any case, here the emphasis is on the word "supplier." I would like to say to my fellow Member, László Földi, that I thank you for your contribution that it is important to change the way in which these measures help the natural development of fish stocks instead of taking prey. Indeed, that was the most important goal. My fellow Member, László Varga, raised the timing of this proposal and I must say that everything must be examined from your point of view. There are temporal obligations which represent Mohos' commitments to enter into force on 1 January and cannot wait any longer. And I have to say that the one hour that we're going to put into this debate is in the best interests of 700 thousand people. I must say, of course, that it is possible to look at everything at the point of the needle, what is important today and tomorrow, but it is also important the day after tomorrow. So we need to be prepared for how we arrive at the normal world. To arrive in the normal world, we have to make decisions now. In order to reap, Hungarian farmers must be rejected, and this is what is good for them, that they dared to sow during the biggest period of the virus epidemic, or that during the summer season the harvest can be undisturbed, i.e. everyday bread, food can be provided. In connection with the increase in fines, a criticism was expressed as to why it should be. The truth is, I always say that a fine should be a deterrent, since there is no need to encourage anyone to be worth it or not. This cannot come up, it may never be worth going astray, and otherwise the official answer is, I will tell you this, saying that it must be the same level of illegal activity. Thus, the benefit that can be achieved by illegal activity must be of equal value to the fine in order for this to be a story. That's why there's all this growth. I thank my fellow Member, Agnes Vadai, for his words of appreciation and for the need for more support for the sector. Indeed, we are working on it, and I can tell you the good news for all of you who have pushed and encouraged us to continue on the issue of intervention buying, and I also say to my fellow Member Varga that this law must be dealt with because we are now creating the legal opportunity to take advantage of this opportunity, so that we can repeat, if necessary, the question of intervention buying. The truth is, about how important or how much the other sectors of agriculture are, I would just like to point out that during this difficult period, let us say, we have just closed the ITC applications, and I can give you the best news: we have planned its ceiling for 50 billion, and the demand has come to much more than 250 billion. Now we're working a thousand ways to give you this 250 billion. Because we can go forward in animal husbandry with such a rush, and there can be a renewal of Hungarian livestock farming, which will never come back. So all the falling money and everything is grouped together, and we are looking for the opportunity to support this intention, this trust, this investment intention, will and enthusiasm in the farming community. So we deal with the other sectors. Crown virus epidemic here, coronal virus epidemic there, Hungarian farmers will not be deterred by anything, thank God, from going forward, because they perceive that we will overcome it once, and then in the normal world we must go. From February 1st and from January 1st? The public service mission should be provided on 1 January and, at the same time, under the Act on Economic Stability, a longer period of preparation, i.e. a certain period of time, should be provided as to how the fine can be collected. That's why we have so much, so simple is the legal answer to this question. And then came the black soup: My fellow Hungarian Member, who spoke of something completely different than the law's profession, but if he asked me a question, I will not run away from him, I will tell you. On the comment of the Surkapiszka on the President of Mohosz, I must say that the first man in the sector is here, the minister is here, I believe that the sector is properly represented, and we all have other tasks to bear, because we are not only talking about the President of Mohos, but also have other functions and tasks. And then it's a matter of fishermen and agreement. One very important point has to be said: the agreement needs two parties. These fishermen received various offers, various opportunities, even when I was State Secretary, because I was the first one to begin with. But they didn't want to accept anything but cash. And that was what ran the agreement into a reef, and that's basically why we fought, we asked, we recommended, for all of them, what you raised. There's something to be done with invasive species. That's the solution right there, because they can deliver. It would be so necessary to have the knowledge that they know to go and serve and protect our natural waters, to cleanse them of invasive species. That's why they get paid, because that's what all fishing organisations and associations pay for. It's a good form of enterprise. That was one of the offers. The other offer is to turn this knowledge into a lake economy. We showed them applications, offered them extra points because they had this experience before to run and win to run their businesses. And I admit to you, we're not talking about 170, we're talking about tens of thousands of people who think they're going to go to every international forum to get cash. The others settled, found a solution, and accepted the offers they had made. After all, Mohos has sat down several times, there have been several discussions, so I told you that the agreement is necessary for two parties. Some people don't want to settle down, we can't help them. The only person who can work with you is the one who gives you your hand to make a deal, and you're willing to cooperate. [[2.00]] That's a very nice idea, and as an islander, as a Mosonmagyaróvárian, there's no one who can make a person's heart tingle more than what we see in history, the sturgeons that are unimaginable to be in the water today. The fact is that there are negotiations and there are initiatives for the Romanian party to build a hallift in the Iron Gate, so that even the sturgeons can swim up and find their natural spawning environment. I must say that this is an extremely good opportunity, and there is an enormous expectation that this will be done, and I very much hope that we will be able to look for a tender with the cooperation of the Romanian party, the colleague of the Minister there. When a bilateral meeting takes place, I will tell him that we should even seek Hungarian-Romanian cooperation to implement such a programme, as we will be able to enjoy the support of the people along the Danube. The fact that we're going to find a natural water or sturgeon while we're on the island, I think it's going to be a fantastic experience, and I hope that in our life, whether we're on the beach together, we can enjoy that. Oh, God, that's how it's gonna be. Mr. President. Thank you for this opportunity, and I would like to ask you all to support this law together after your amendments have been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-17-274	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The discussion of today's agendas is already over. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Representative of Jobbik Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-municipal speech:. At the edge of the collapse, the patient care in Győr-Moson-Sopron county? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-11-17-275	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Well, I'm not really in the field of health care, obviously you know that about me. I am interested in the area, for example, because I volunteered and tried to get to know the sector for several periods, and especially the work of those working in it. But that is not why I asked for the floor, but because there were extremely worrying signs from my county, very worrying news has appeared in various press organisations, and I would like to receive reassuring answers about them. It is clear that the pandemic itself cannot and does not need to be pinned on the government, and it is clear that no one can cause panic. But it must be said, and it must be pointed out how health care would have dealt with this situation more effectively if the government had shown any interest in Hungarian health care over the past ten years in relation to the development of Hungarian health care and the appreciation of those working there. We believe that it would have been more effective in order of magnitude, protection, and certainly many more lives could be saved by Hungarian health care. At the end of October, it was reported that the hospital in Győr was practically full of Covid-positive patients and that the new ones were already being placed in hospitals in the county departments of the area, and that they were also trying to arrange it in the midst of various medical acquaintances and private phone calls. So, unfortunately, such a complete chaotic situation occurred in Győr, as I mentioned, by the end of October. Almost all previous classes were converted and used as covids, and unfortunately, by the end of October, it was already known that there were more and more younger patients. A worker told the press that unfortunately, those on the ventilator could be saved at a very poor rate compared to the previous ones. I would like to conclude this story with a quote from Győr:, If you are an intensive worker, you are accustomed to the daily struggle, death, but not to this, which is now taking place, said a worker there, and as far as I have had a personal insight into what has happened, it is truly disappointing, and I can only hope that we will get through this situation as soon as possible. Then, at the beginning of November, news came of the basic supply in Csorna, where another worker said that basic care was practically on his knees. Here, two out of the four adult and two children's districts were doctors. The problem in basic care hasn't started yet. We can constantly see the national maps that show how many GPs are missing from the system, and it is logical, logical, that if these deficits, these practices, were not, and all of them would be charged, then, as a matter of fact, this falls to the knee, which is in this case the example of Csorna, would not have happened either much later or in a much more serious situation. So we can't avoid government responsibilities here. Then, in the middle of November, another sad news came from my county, when the hospital in Mosonmagyaróvár announced that they couldn't pick up children, the emergency child care was virtually gone. All of this on one paper is thirty-paired, but in practice we all know that it is quite worrying about a city with a population of fifty thousand, and at that time we have not talked about the area, as it is also the hospital that has to take care of it. In fact, advice was given that if someone has a serious emergency problem with the child, they should try to reach their home doctor by phone or by video chat, and then they will be able to give him some advice. All this in a situation where not only I, I think many of us have experienced that it is quite difficult, let's say, to reach the GP on the phone, and it is not his fault, because there is a burden that is unprecedented. I think that if we had paid more attention to the hospital in Mosonmagyaróvár and health care here, if we had more respect for the government for the people working there over the last decade, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm sure this situation wouldn't have come up. I would just like to ask you here that if you are not prepared for this situation properly, at least take them seriously in view of the future. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-17-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:30 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone.
