u2020-05-20-0	Dear Parliament, The 26th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be assisted by Attila Gelencsér and notary György Lukács. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that yesterday the T/10526 ban on the placing on the market of certain single-use plastics The rapporteur for the proposal for a regulation No 1 has withdrawn it. I would remind you that this proposal was part of our agenda adopted on Monday. I would like to inform you that today, in line with the withdrawal, the general debate on the bill will not take place. The amended agenda has been published, which is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, General debates are now being discussed. I would like to invite my fellow Members who have taken part in the debate to remain in the Chamber, if possible, only the fellow Members who have spoken in the debate and the two fellow Members who have asked for their next speeches, in order to preserve the health of all of us. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for a special economic zone and amendments to certain related laws until closure. Government referral T/10527. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-20-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Good morning, everyone. In recent years, a number of large investments and capacity expansions have been announced in Hungary, which has significantly supported our national economy objectives and an increase in the performance of the national economy. The high investment rate is, in our view, one of the pillars of sustainable growth. Countries that succeed in catching up, if we look around the world, are typically characterised by a high investment rate of 25 per cent or above. During 2019, nearly HUF 13 400 billion was developed in Hungary prior to the arrival of the coronal virus epidemic. As a result, investment activity exceeded the previous year by more than 15 percent. In the last ten years, we have registered a total increase of 77 percent. As a result, Hungary's investment rate rose from 20.2 percent in 2010 to 28.6 percent last year. This is the second place in the European Union. The fact that Hungary's ability to attract capital has also increased significantly in recent years also supports the use of growth opportunities. Only recently announced corporate developments exceed HUF 4000 billion. This amounts to about 9 per cent of the annual domestic GDP. In the medium term, capital capacity through investments can increase our country's export performance by some HUF 12 000-20 000 billion annually, representing between 35 and 56 percent of current exports, depending on how we count and how these objectives are realised. It also supports positive processes, in our view, that as a significant reduction in capital costs, we reduced the corporate tax rate to 9 per cent from 2017 onwards. This remains the lowest across the European Union. Based on the statistics published by the National Investment Agency, HIPA, a positive investor decision was made in 2019 on a total of 101 projects in Hungary, and the increasingly favourable positions of our country in terms of capital attractiveness are supported by the relevant indices, such as the global best to invest. This is the second time in a row we've been among the top ten investment countries in the world. We believe that this is a result that every citizen of Hungary has the right to be proud of, and we are working to preserve these results, so we can continue to increase Hungary's ability to attract capital and the performance of the national economy. This is also what the bill before us is about, which can be summarised briefly: it provides an opportunity to create special economic zones. These special economic zones are subject to different rules than those for general investment purposes. These special investment zones are characterised by the fact that, of course, every square inch of every area of our country belongs to the administrative area of one of the municipalities, but these investments are characterised by the volume of investments that, in terms of their impact, go beyond the boundaries of the local government, and intend to address this effect beyond the boundaries of the settlements, or to facilitate and support the investment with this bill. In our view, the solution under the bill allows for a more proportionate distribution within the county, given that investments in such a zone, as I have mentioned, can have an impact not only in a settlement but also in a wider area, where appropriate, on the entire territory of the county. The bill offers an opportunity, so it is not compulsory to declare an investment-related target area to such an economic zone; economic analysis, impact assessment is necessary for it, and the conditions under which these ratings can be made are set out in detail in the bill. On the basis of the bill, the tax revenue from the county municipality can then be used by the county municipality to support the development in the county area, in particular in the area of the municipalities concerned by the investment and the operation of the settlements, on the basis of the decree. The regulatory logic therefore seems to be that, since it is an investment involving more than one municipality, I believe that in the case of such a large type of investment, it cannot be disputed with common sense, so it also turns on another municipal operator. Another municipal operator decides on the use of the tax revenue involved in the investment, which must be used primarily in the municipality that is administratively affected by the investment, but, of course, because of the cross-border effects, these amounts must also be used for the development of other municipalities and for the steps supporting the investment there. We can give many of these examples. I think this has been a continuous problem since the change of regime, which many municipalities have already indicated. In fact, I think that this is an extremely unfair situation. [[9.10]] Now that our country's economic capacity... I ask you that we can do this to put the coronal virus epidemic in parentheses for one minute, so if we take this effect, then our country's economic performance will increase, then this problem will increase. The more investments there are, the more such problems are, that in fact the tax revenue per municipality is determined by the exact location of the investment. Even though there are many examples, my colleagues have collected a number of such examples that, for example, the neighboring administrative unit, settlement in life, in practice it is much more affected by an investment that is otherwise positive, say, in terms of its labour market impact, or in terms of its negative impact on infrastructure use, it does not benefit from the tax revenue that the investment brings, because it is realised in another settlement. We all know many mayors, many local players, regardless of the political side, who have been critical of this in terms of concrete investments over the last decades, so I can say that since the change in the system, we have been rightfully critical of it. We therefore believe that this bill is capable of allowing for a more proportionate allocation of resources within the county, with improvements being made in the settlements concerned, so that the other settlements also benefit from tax revenue, or that the whole region's character is strengthened by the county. As I have mentioned to you, according to the bill, such a special economic zone can be declared under strict, defined conditions. This is not an automatic, accidental or uncontrollable process. With the Government's decree, you can declare the location of investments or enlargements that have already been declared a priority issue for the national economy and which are above the total cost of HUF 5 billion, are considered to be of economic importance to a significant part of the county's territory and are intended to avoid the massive loss of jobs or create new jobs. The debate on the bill has already started in the press, which also precedes the debate in Parliament. In this regard, I would like to make a few reflections for you in advance. I would like to point out very strongly that the amendment does not in any way affect the system of the ratio of local and central tax revenues to date, and the State does not in any way withdraw any amount from the municipalities. The conditions for local taxation are placed in a position, on an equal basis with the local government, with a greater area of competence, which can take into account the effects of the wider area and which is much more familiar with it, thereby ensuring a more proportionate distribution within the municipal system. Moreover, this is confirmed by the Fundamental Law, according to Article 32 (paragraph 1) (h), the decision on the type and extent of local taxes is conferred on the local government. By applying the law on the local governments of Hungary, the local government is also the local government and the county government. The county municipality can have the revenue from the tax only in the manner specified in the bill; therefore it cannot be used for other purposes, can not be taken away, can not be made of it. The local government has such an obligation to use: on the one hand, to support the development in the area of settlements, the operation of organisations operating in the area and the operation of settlements, and, on the other hand, we believe that this is fair up to 3 per cent of the revenue, the county municipality can finance the cost of its own task, i.e. the organisation's design. The bill is therefore in line with the main objectives of the government's general economic policy. The possibility to designate special economic zones contributes to the re-launch of the economy, contributes to the creation of new jobs and the preservation of existing jobs. I would therefore like to ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Sándor Hadházy applauds.]]
u2020-05-20-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/10527 in front of us. The aim of the draft law on the special economic zone and the amendment of certain related laws is to promote the development of areas of high economic importance in Hungary, to preserve jobs and create new jobs by creating separate areas that create favourable conditions for the continuation of economic activities. The world and our country are going through a crisis period in these trying months, which not only place enormous burdens on the shoulders of decision-makers but also on the shoulders of citizens. In addition to protecting the economic results achieved since 2010, the government's priority objective is to protect jobs and create new jobs, which can be read among the main objectives of the bill. The bill allows for the creation of special economic zones, which make a major contribution to the goals that I have already mentioned for creating and preserving jobs. The proposal also facilitates the rapid implementation of major investments in the national economy by creating a specific regulatory environment and ensuring the attractiveness and development of the economic area and the creation of infrastructure improvements. Dear House, The bill states that in the special economic zone certain tasks of local authorities will be performed in the future by the county municipality. This is important because, in the special economic zone, investments which are of major importance for the national economy are of economic importance to a significant part of the county. The proposal provides for the possibility of declaring at least HUF 5 billion of full-cost, job creation and preservation investments and their immediate environment as a special economic zone. The bill allows for a more proportionate distribution within the county; investments in such a zone have an impact not only on a settlement but also on a wider scale, or on the whole territory of the county. Dear Parliament, The bill contributes to the development of economic areas, improving infrastructure conditions, which can attract both domestic and foreign investors with hundreds or even thousands of jobs. Investors make a significant contribution to the Hungarian economy, with the result that in recent years a total of 101 large investments have been started and completed across the country, worth some HUF 1705 billion. [[9.20]] In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill before us is for forward-looking purposes, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I give the floor first to Congressman Róbert Dudás, the first lead speaker of the Jobbik faction. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Several times in the past few days, we have discussed this bill, and in many respects, we are hearing conflicting information either from State Secretarys or from Minister Gulyás; allow me to address some of these. First, I would like to quote a few points that this bill, which is situated in a territory declared a special economic zone and which is owned by the municipal government, is owned by a public area, public park, road ownership, free of charge from the municipal government's property, without compensation, and thus reduces the local government's tribal assets... That's one of the things I think is remarkable and problematic. We cannot go beyond the fact that the change in ownership based on a government decree designating a special economic zone under the bill changes the Mötv. the territorial division within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, in such a way as to leave the Mötv unchanged at the same time. in the case of the capital city, this is in breach of Mötv. 22. Paragraph 4 of this Article. However, according to the Constitutional Court decision of 5/2007, legislation is dysfunctional if the legislator makes a specific decision by law. It's also the Mötv. 27. According to Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act, the county municipality is a local government, which carries out territorial development, rural development, spatial planning and coordination tasks. However, with the adoption of the bill, the county municipality will also carry out municipal tasks, which will, in turn, be carried out by Mötv. it does not contain and such an amendment of the Mötv. is not included in the bill. The Mötv. only in the case of the capital, it states that, in addition to the tasks of the local government, it carries out municipal tasks. Furthermore, the regulation of the special economic zone as proposed in the bill also breaks the unity of the settlement. It provides a way for different regulations to apply within a settlement, which can also cause problems for the population of the settlement, as well as for businesses, farmers and other organisations operating in the settlement. In addition to the dual regulation in a given settlement, in the event of the adoption of the bill, the administrative powers of the municipal mayor and notary of the state are also tilted by the President of the county assembly, the mayor, or the county notary, and the main metropolitan notary, the current structure of the municipal system established in 1990 in Hungary, and the co-ordination relationship between the local, regional and local authorities is weakened. And here I would like to point out that, by going through all the posts of the local government, starting with the local government office of the small settlement, then with 9 years of work, mayor and international presence, I think that it is extremely important to find the place of county assemblies in the system, assigning the right tasks. In this, I see we agree with the Secretary of State, but the problem is, you know, that's what the government's been looking for for for ten years. This is what the government's been looking for for for ten years. He found it both in 11 and in 12 when they were supposedly taken away from them, and they said that they had theoretically found their place. They didn't have anything to do, I beg you. In 14 the regional development operational programmes came, with which happy Istváns were placed on the neck of county municipalities and constituencies. Yes, Mr Secretary of State, and more examples of this could be taken. Regardless of all this, I think that finding the place of county assemblies is very important in the system, but this cannot be at the expense of the self-determination of municipal authorities. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] Well, that's what we should be working on together to do. With regard to what I have said in five minutes, let me also say that these opinions have been formulated by the National Association of Municipal Local Governments, which, by the way, covers more than 50 percent of the municipalities. They also stated that, in the course of the preliminary negotiations, they should indicate to the government their concerns or their criticisms of positive or negative ones that move the local government forward, which have not been incorporated, and do not return their comments to this bill. I think that we should work together to create a law that strengthens the local government, but unfortunately we see it, and I say that, by the way, I am not fundamentally wrong about the legislator or the author of the bill, but it also comes back from this bill that it does not have any practical experience. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State how many leaders have been involved in the drafting of this bill, who have seen local governments, the operation of local governments from a practical point of view, who is an ex-government leader, you know what it is that they are local government, and they are not preparing decisions that violate the principle of subsidiarity itself, so that decisions can be made next to the inhabitants, because this is not only in the interest of the local authorities, but also of all people. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The Secretary of State said that a number of large investments have been announced in recent years. I think that we are happy about this, regardless of the parties, but at the same time he mentioned that Hungary has become one of the ten most attractive investment countries, which is also a very positive thing, only if we look a little behind, the Prime Minister's announcement that he did in an Arab country to come to us, because the labour force is cheap in our country, and they can achieve this by keeping the Hungarian workforce at a systematic low level. The Secretary of State also mentioned that it is not compulsory to make this economic zone, it will not work as an automatic. I'd like to ask you how it's gonna work, who's gonna determine that. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Congressman Nacsa, press a button, I think, and you can give us your opinion. I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State and my fellow Members to have one goal in mind when making their decision: the local government; and beyond the local government, people who, by the way, have the closest contact with the local governments, and who, on the ground, can carry on almost everyday activity, everyday life with the help of the local authorities. Their help is vital, we fully support it, but absolutely not their impossibility. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, another lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-7	Mr President, Dear House, So far, the benevolent version has been from a well-trained and competent friend, my fellow Member, who has entered every sphere of the territory. I would like to translate the laws and changes cited: you are about to steal, this is what it says in Hungarian. They are trying to steal from Hungarian democracy, the will of Hungarian voters. [[Towards the pro-government benches:]] Don't laugh, Congressman. It's not funny. And I would also like to say that, yes, they also want to channel forints, scan them into a bed where your people can decide their fate. And believe me, my fellow Members, I am not concerned about the amount of 3 percent that county authorities can write down as administrative costs, because there is a much greater burden of billions for those who have so far been free to spend, I add, resources for local authorities. [[9.30]] When I talk about the theft of democracy, I think that they are indeed putting opposition city leaders in a difficult situation, and they have chosen the only possible and chemical fidesz majority, right, we are talking about county leadership, and interestingly, they are channeling decision rights to this. The thing is, that's not what the voters wanted. My fellow Member, Nacsa, yes, the electorate voted for county leadership and their composition, but not for these to take away the possibility of allocating funds from city leaders and places with opposition leadership. Tell me that the county administration can decide, say, in the case of Göd, that the wages of the local government workers in Göd should be increased from the amount previously spent on this. No, you can't. The county administration is obviously deceiving decision-making powers, it can channel these funds elsewhere, but the possibilities of the so far opposition city leadership, whether mandatory or non-binding, are clearly violated; it may be by HUF 700 million in the case of Göd, and this is small in your eyes, and I see this with ten years' experience and parliamentary experience, it is true that they are bowing down to it, but it is small money in their eyes, but I have to say that at national level this is a burden of billions. They ask us for a blank cheque, to trust county leaders with ten years of experience, that they will provide development resources in a fair and balanced way to government-led and opposition-led cities and settlements. Why is it that the single opposition representative becomes insecure at this time? Why can't I believe to you that after the withdrawal of the paid business tax in Dunaújváros, it won't, say, become a Székesfehérvár square stone? And you can say that the cities with county rights are not; make sure that they are codified so that this is clearly revealed to everyone. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] Because they simply could not put a technically measurable draft on the table, which would certainly reveal this. (Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.) That's the big deal. And it's amazing that we're gonna have to have a fake debate about this, while they're mocking democracy, trying to reach over the electorate's will. Let's see what happened in Göd. After the county administration decides on this amazing mass of business taxes, do you think the impact on investment will become possible for the local population? Can they get in touch with what happened around the investment? Unfortunately, they have not yet been able to take a serious step forward, and this should be changed in order to ensure that forest cuttings, the removal of factory fences to residential areas, and one of the most serious: the organizing of hundreds of Ukrainian and Asian guest workers during a Fidesz-KDNP administration will become controllable and controllable. Is this your Hungary? ! Is that what you wanted? ! Is this a competitive advantage that Hungarian wages are low and the labour code is flexible? Your prime minister used it to promote Hungary in Saudi Arabia to attract working capital. It's a shame and a shame that you want to turn a strong, once proud nation state into a assembly plant that competes with its cheapness! It's a shame. They serve these multi-enterprises in every way, and now they are also doing so to remove resources that can be used locally from opposition city councils in order to make it more easily distributed in the future by chemical fidesz witch kitchens in a way that they want to do. I am sure, fellow Members, that there will be opposition city leadership that will retain its former development resources, perhaps not directly from business tax revenue, but from county leadership, which will also have a price, and this is no longer called democracy. This is a very strange system of bargaining, which is very, very far from what we have known as democracy in Hungary. Therefore, I would like to call on you to stop at this point, to return to the ground of normality, because this, which lies before us, is not about that at all. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-20-8	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, is coming to a speech. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-20-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If my better fellow Member ends up like this, then I will not only concern myself with professional arguments, but also bring the debate to a more political level, since he has already made such accusations to us. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] and published a speech here at the National Assembly, which was not even due to reality. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, said that he asked us to look only at the interests of the municipalities in such a bill. Well, Congressman, no. We want to look at the interests of the Hungarian people, not only the municipalities, but the municipalities, the county authorities, the counties. [[Róbert Honkers: Wow! Ouch!]] people living in cities with county rights, people living in villages, people living in the capital, everyone. I understand you're a municipal lobbyist here in Parliament. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Z. Kárpát Dániel: You are a lobbyist for Turkish migrant workers!]] but we want to look at the interests of the Hungarian people, not just the interests of the local authorities. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Is this in the interests of the Hungarian people?! Shame!]] Obviously, I refuse to be accused of stealing from Daniel Z. Carpathian. Congressman, the whole country is not Ozd, so let's put that aside. Don't accuse us of such accusations, which, of course, we reject. [[Róbert Honkers: No? How about happy?]] It is clear that our goal is to re-launch the country together, even after the coronal virus epidemic, gradually, but with maximum security in mind. We will solve the economic difficulties caused by the epidemic with investments, developments and job creations, which we have already done once after 2010. We will create as many jobs as the plague has taken, every man who can and wants to work will have a job. Our work-based approach is, of course, in stark contrast to the failed left-wing aid-oriented approach. In two months we have heard nothing else in Parliament from the opposition, from Jobbik to DK [[Interjection and publicity in the opposition's ranks.]] to extend the duration of unemployment benefit. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: You're reading last week's paper!]] They never demanded, never once demanded that everyone have a job, but always demanded that people sit at home and wait for aid. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] We know this failed left-wing policy, the Balliberal side has kept hundreds of thousands of Hungarians on long-term unemployment benefits instead of making a living from decent work. [[Róbert Hondas: Mr President, this is not on the subject! That's not on the subject.]] and, in the meantime, introduced the concept of crime of livelihoods. Once against this left-wing nihilism, Jobbik played radically, unfortunately, he joined the choir today. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Pathetic! This is yesterday's paper!]] Radical left-wing parties and their new henchmen, who even took the double cross out of their party logo and replaced it with a hashtag [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are sick, seriously!]] They demand the same failed left-wing aid policy today, but some go beyond that: they want extended unemployment benefits, unconditional basic incomes, and people with little work to pay unrealisticly high taxes. Tax increases and aid policies are unacceptable to us. [[Róbert Dudás: Where is the economic zone in this?!]] We support Hungarian people and Hungarian families from work [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You are simply the bitches of the multinationals!]] And jobs will be investments, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we regret that the opposition is constantly attacking the investments and demanding that they be stopped, as they did here in the choir yesterday morning, for example, on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] In our view, investment must not be stopped in times of crisis, but should be accelerated in order to create jobs, just as there is no need for austerity, but for support and burden reduction. Under our government, we continue our tax reduction policy during the crisis, from 1 July 2020 the rate of social contribution tax will decrease from 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent. With a further reduction in the tax burden on labour, more money remains in companies [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Lőrinc, to which item on the agenda are you reading?!]] which they will be able to devote to higher wages and the following investments. The national government [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: National Government?! No kidding.]] during the crisis, it preserves outstanding Hungarian family support measures at European level, and Hungary has never spent so much on family support before this year, when this amount exceeds HUF 2200 billion. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Bond!]] The bill before us allows for the creation of special economic zones in order to create jobs and to preserve jobs. We need investments that create valuable jobs, because they give decent work to Hungarian people, ensure the livelihood of families, and contribute to the development of settlements. In today's world, investments that are of major importance to the national economy no longer take into account the boundaries of settlements, but also create wider economic areas that affect the economic lives of several neighbouring settlements. It is therefore appropriate to apply a completely new approach to priority economic zones, which helps development more effectively than before, makes the area attractive and enhances its infrastructure. To this end, it is necessary to create a new, special regulatory environment that enables the location and environment of investments of major economic importance for the economy, with a total cost of at least HUF 5 billion, to be declared a special economic zone. The impact of such high-priority investments extends to several settlements, so it is unfair that people who take their share of the work, work the same and as well, but live in other settlements, cannot benefit from the tax income of the investment. [[9.40]] Please acknowledge, fellow Members, that this is an unfair situation. I'm sure you've had countless examples of such places in this country. You go to work there, you put value-making work in it, but they don't see anything in their own settlements. The legislative proposal sets out the objective of ensuring that investments beyond a given economic life can benefit the other municipalities concerned in a fair and proportionate manner. The solution under the bill allows for a more proportionate distribution within the county. To this end, in the special economic zone, certain tasks and powers of the local government will be exercised in the future by the county municipality. The county municipality can carry out comprehensive infrastructure improvements covering several municipalities, for which individual municipal authorities do not have the possibility, because their powers end at the borders of the municipality. For example, the road section used by commuters on a daily basis to get to work cannot be renovated by a local government, but county authorities can effectively develop infrastructure connecting settlements for the benefit of residents in the region. These are precisely developments that you, for example Mr Keresztes Group leader, have repeatedly called upon us here in recent years: infrastructure development of roads connecting small settlements. Therefore, the county municipality will be able to use the tax revenue received by the county municipality in a targeted way to support the development in the county area, especially in the area of the municipalities affected by the investment and the operation of the municipalities. The bill does not withdraw tax revenue from the municipalities against opposition lies, it does not go to the government, but the county government distributes it among the municipalities in a more proportionate and just way than before. The proposal does not include the withdrawal of funds, nor does it include the bleeding out of municipalities, but constitutes a territorial development approach involving several municipalities. The use of these development funds is not decided centrally by the government, but by the county authorities democratically elected by the people in the county. I believe that my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpath, is ill-advised that Jobbik has not been able to collect half the recommendation for departure in two counties, and therefore they have not even started in the last municipal elections. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We don't have any Cubatov lists!]] But admit that this is a democratic election, where people living in the county who do not live in a city with county rights could express their will. The fact that even in Fejér County, where your citadel is located, you called Dunaújváros unable to leave is just the state of your party. In addition, the bill states that when the special economic zone is designated, the government must seek the opinion of the local government concerned, so the bill is based on the spirit of cooperation, not on the class-fighting approach of the opposition. The bill does not impose any obligation to establish special economic zones; it merely gives the government the opportunity to designate such special economic zones in agreement with the municipalities concerned. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's not true!]] This proposal does not affect county-righted cities and the capital, and the county-righted cities and the Metropolitan Municipality receive tax on the investments carried out there. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Again it is not true! You're lying again!]] On the other hand, opposition mayors of certain county-righted cities are spreading false news again, such as [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's not true! That's not true.]] which are not included in the proposal. It should also be noted that the bill does not apply to the investments already made, so it is also a huge lie that municipal authorities would be entitled to less tax revenues than they have been entitled to. This bill concerns only new investments in the future. It's not about bleeding out the municipalities. Once again, the opposition lies, tries to defuse responsibility, try to explain the certificate, try to draw attention to why the opposition city leaders lost their savings in less than six months. In the future, every municipal government can receive only more revenue than it currently does in the face of opposition lies and false news. The opposition is asked not to spread lies or false news. If you have criticism, you can argue against it here, just as my better fellow Members have done, but you must respect the voters by not spreading lies about this bill. The bill is about the development of Hungarian settlements. Each local government can develop according to the bill, and a comprehensive approach to the development of settlements can be achieved. It is important that those living there benefit from economic areas. It is important that the other municipalities, from which a lot of value-creating work is put in, benefit from these developments, therefore the KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-20-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to make it clear and clear: this bill is a political and economic wrench in the hands of Fidesz and the government. It's easy to call it lex einstand. If we want to look at the history, then it is a pity to look for any reason that has been said earlier. I think that we should go back to the parliamentary elections in 2018, when Viktor Orbán, President of Fidesz, is not far from us, in Kossuth Square, if I remember correctly, clearly stated that after the elections they will be satisfied in political, legal and moral terms. This bill is part of this package, honourable Members. If we want to put this bill in taxatically, it will be prominent in the series of the greatest rogues of the Orbán system, you know, right next to the name laws, otherwise not far from their bill filling up the oligarchs, and the retroactive laws will not be too far from this volume. They're gonna be ashamed of this. The time will come soon. You know, revenge isn't paid by political opponents. In this bill, as usual, it is not possible to take money from the municipalities. You can take money from people in the settlement, and that's what you're doing right now, that's what you're doing. After all, if a local government's revenue and planned revenues are lost and, let's say, we are talking about a settlement where the business tax is a serious revenue, then the consequences of this will be nothing more than job losses, dismissal of people, possibly elimination of civil or sporting subsidies, destruction of public services, deprivation of social costs from families, elderly people, people living alone, or even children. That's the stakes. All the rest is bullshit! Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should also clarify a few things about the text of the bill. My first question is where will Gregory Gulyás be? The entire Hungarian press is entertaining itself, and also the nice customers of newspapers and news consumers, that every bill is submitted by Zsolt Semjén, and there is certainly a reason why we are entertaining ourselves with this saying on both sides, but if someone looks at the bill, they know precisely that it is a bill managed by Gergely Gulyás and the Prime Minister's Office. Gergely Gulyás, who was able to say to the public twice that this would not apply to the capital and the cities with county rights. I see my colleague Nacsa is nodding right now. Then we interpret it a little, let's say, according to the rules of Hungarian grammar, in case anyone has read the proposal itself! [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: It went well last time!]] Article 1 Paragraph 4 of the Act states: in the case of a special economic zone to be designated in the territory of the capital: in the case of a special economic zone to be designated in the territory of the capital city, the capital city or the Municipality of the Capital shall be understood as the special economic zone to be designated in the territory of the capital city. But I would also like to read to you the reasons for the same paragraph. The proposal makes it clear that regulations on the settlement and county and municipal and county municipalities should apply in the case of a special economic zone to be designated in the territory of the capital. No wonder they're all pushing their little phones, their little things, because it's very uncomfortable. I'm not saying it applies to the capital, it's the 1st. It is included in Section 5 and not only in the text of the norm, but it is also clearly stated once more in the justification of what will happen in the case of a special economic zone designated in the territory of the capital city. [[9.50]] Gergely Gulyás stands for this and we know from Viktor Orbán that we must not listen to what they say, but what they do, but that this government's second man as the Prime Minister's minister, and he lies in the eyes of the country without blinking at it? ! Show me, please, Mr. Secretary of State, the only place that rules out county-righted cities in this text, apart from the fact that our wise leader says that it is not justified in the capital, is not justified in cities with county-rights. As far as I'm concerned, government information has no norm. I may have missed something, but in this bill, my fellow Members, it is the municipal authorities, including the cities with county rights, and the special rules for the capital are well-established. And I would have expected Gergely Gulyás to come here and apologize for what he said, or here he might have announced that the government would (a) withdraw, (b) amend these rules in accordance with what he said to the public on several occasions. But in this case, there is still no exception in this bill. Not only is the capital not included as an exception, but, once again, it is even specifically arranged, so if they are assigned in the territory of the capital, then who should do what. So much for Mr. Nacsa, don't spread a lie to tell him. That's what we're asking of you. And the fact that these funds are transferred to the county authorities, my fellow Members, is indeed to the Fidesz majority of county municipalities: I would just like to confirm that we are no longer just talking about fiction, not just trust. I think that at least two of their parliamentary representatives standing in front of the three courts for corruption are in front of a criminal court concerning the fraud of county regional development EU funds, because as a Fidesz Member of Parliament, through the Fidesz County Assembly, the money was stolen from the common register through their contacts there. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Shame!]] Then why do we think that the systematic transposition of this will be a good solution? I think, on the one hand, it won't be, and on the other, everyone knows what their real motivation is. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I don't!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you have been kind, Secretary of State, and you have read the relevant provisions of the Fundamental Law, which literally says that these revenues belong to local governments. Mr. State Secretary, you do realize that the county regional government is not a municipal government? You know what they're doing is literally and literally against the law, right? And if you say it's all right, by the way, because you're going to send this money to another local government, I'd like to make a low record that, at the rate of 3 per cent to be used for the operation of the county government, it's absolutely against the law that you're doing, and I'd just like to confirm that this is not the money that the glory of the world will depend on, but it's legally totally unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, You could put a proposal on the table that would put, say, the injustices that have indeed been given in some places, that a large investment in a large city and the allocation of resources for small settlements around it are not synchronised, but that should not be done by such a law, Mr. Secretary of State. Then work out how to automatically distribute these resources fairly among these affected settlements, and not make a law that, once again, leaves the government's discretionary individual decision to take money and not to whom! Or will the rule be that, before going to bed, Viktor Orbán will write in his little notebook the name of which settlement and which settlement he does not? Are you planning, Secretary of State, to declare BMW's investment in Debrecen as such a priority economic zone? Are you planning to take away the Audi investment from Győr? Are you planning on taking the Mercedes from Kecskemét? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes. Dániel Z. Carpathian: There's that defense money, isn't there?]] This bill is completely false and unacceptable. What we're asking is that if you have the guts to send this bill to pre-standard control. If not, we will ensure that the rule of law is at least given a chance to uphold the rule of law or not of the Constitutional Court. Mostly withdraw this bill. Thank you for listening.
u2020-05-20-12	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-13	Ladies and Gentlemen, So if we kill the municipalities, we'll definitely kill the country. I have heard from you countless times that the sovereignty of the nation is such an unquestionable common interest, the maintenance of it is so important for all Hungarians, for which it is worth fighting even the dragon, but it is absolutely important to Brussels, Soros and everyone else. If they wake us up from our sleep, we'll be able to give up this line by heart. But what is the nation? Is the nation a homogeneous political community? Or is the nation a community of people who think, organize, share different beliefs and, of course, agree with and share their Hungarian beliefs? Are we homogenic nation states, or are we a differentiated community within these nation states? If it's the former, then otherwise you don't need a municipality, and in general you don't need anything. You must ban the associations, the churches, Lord, forgive me. The Catholic Church, which, by the way, proclaims the verb across countries as a world church, is perhaps the most, not what I think, creator Father, is coming from this, and in general everything should be banned, please, which gives us the opportunity to join forces, gather, and act together with people of different minds, mentalities and cultures. In my view, what you are doing is trying to take us from one side to a homogeneous nation state, which calls into question the existence of independent communities on any basis, professional-scientific workshops, civil society organisations, municipalities, or we acknowledge that because we are Hungarians, there are still many others. And by using our civil liberties, we are not only willing to organize, we also require that the state that we have created defend this right of freedom. Here's a fundamental debate. Since 2010, you have done nothing but eliminate these freedoms, small circles of freedom, free universities, civil society organisations, free churches, free courts, free self-governments. You're going forward, step by step. I could classify the law with relatively harsh words, but the truth is it's pointless because it always turns out that you can do something even worse and worse. This is not the end of this story, but, by the way, it will certainly not be an important step in the obscurity of history to eliminate social civil autonomy. [[10.00]] I don't want to tell you long stories, although it takes me 15 minutes to hear the rational stuttering and dry reasoning of the government's presentation, and then the rather shallow reading of pro-government politicians, sometimes struggling with the problem of syllabling, let me tell you something. You come to the countryside a lot, and you are the party of the countryside in principle, and obviously you have encountered the phenomenon that there are 3-4 settlements next to each other. Even their culture is similar to that of people living in a mercenary line before, settlements depopulated and repopulated after the Turkish occupation, and yet one settlement flourishes, and the other is surrounded by ten kilometres. Well, I suspect, as I do, you've asked me what the hell is going on here. It doesn't take you long to think about it, but try it once, and it turns out that there are 2-3-4 excellent people in one of the settlements. He's got the settlement in his neck. He was working, thinking, organizing, and they got from one to two. There's a lot of life going on. On weekends, they have stories, they come together, they understand that people have to live with businesses, they have to take care of each other, and it works. That is, how you lead your settlement, how much ambition, diligence and talent you have, that brings some people out, well, and you leave others out of hopelessness. If this example is too ordinary, I'll say something more complicated, more sophisticated, if you will. I suspect they know the name of John Kornai, although I think we have a different view of him. Kornai is an excellent man and an excellent economist, certainly one of the largest economists in our region. Many years ago, a very exciting study was published in Hungary in the Economics Review, perhaps in 11-12. His question was what really helps mankind to live more and more comfortably, to feel more comfortable, which is the social features that sooner or later produce new solutions and products, I say again with elegance: they innovate from which it is a better life than it was a hundred years ago. The reasoning is long, but well understood. And at the end of the study there is a long annex: Kornai makes a list of hundreds of products that have fundamentally changed the lives of today's people in the last 30-40 years. Well, it's got everything, from the dishwasher to the transistor, from the fax to the digital signal. And what do you think, in the last column of the list table, when the question is, and these innovations, innovations, where did they see the light of day, what is the objective answer to this question? It will be very accurate what I quote to you, and I did not look into this study this morning: about 92 of the hundred were created in the free world, in the Western world. Where there is individual and group freedom, where there is scientific freedom, where community freedom is the widest and most complete. 'Cause there's new ideas, new cases. Now, all this stuff you're doing, it goes against that. Well, there was central control here, please. You are constantly communistizing the opposition against you. But if there's a Bolshevik party in Hungary, it's you. Stop croaking and suck on something. Be nice. Noticing that everything they're doing is a mindless centralization and everything for the government power, even everything for the Prime Minister and nothing for the people, that this Soviet model, well, doesn't require much intellect. To be honest, I'm surprised that you have intellectual or moral problems here, or both. Is this the free Hungary? Are you proud of that? Here local governments will compete to get from one to two; who better to make an investment, who has more work, who has more tax revenue. Do we want to break down this initiative? Do it, but if it's too good, we'll come and take it. Well, congratulations on that. By the way, I have heard the interpretation that you represent and that I have heard in the presentation by the Secretary of State that it is a work-based society, or perhaps you have just said it, Member, that we do not agree with that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I told you.]] Did you say that? Well, congratulations on that. Then let's stick to this otherwise highly controversial approach, as you say. Let's just stick to this. There's a settlement, they crush themselves, they work, they pick excellent people, they hire consultants, they make something happen to them. What will be the fruit of their work? Einstand! Here come Feri Ács, they were also red shirts, maybe... Oh, my God, we found it again. That's what you do! You guys are out of your minds! You have to do the reverse: work, do it, we'll help you! Is there going to be a government investment in this, by the way? Of course! But don't pat your boobs. If they buy a kilo of chicken tail, one fifth of it goes into the joint. You're not supporting that investment. You're supporting my pensioner. To get the hell out of their faces for you! You don't give money to the municipality, you give money to anyone who buys a glass of milk, a chicken tail, a kilo of dry noodles. That's what I'm asking you to understand. But we're past this because we're building two different worlds. You're building a world of corruption, selfishness, self-consciousness against free people, and we're protecting that. That they're gonna run us over now? Of course! Well, we're gonna have great speeches, and our audience is gonna applaud us, and we're gonna have a good time for three minutes, and we're gonna tell them, and then you're gonna bet on it. The author or one of them says it's the law of partnership. Really? How many municipal alliances did you negotiate with before? How many? Tell me! How many have you given your blessing? Tell me! How many economic, social studies have you done and published that this will be good? I was sitting here in this chair. [[He points to the Prime Minister's seat.]] While I was in another office, when Mr. Head of the Navracsics Group was sitting roughly in the place of the Secretary of State, and every time we presented a law and there was no pre-study before him, he said that he should be thrown out immediately, it was not acceptable. [[10.10]] What kind of pre-study do you have, ladies and gentlemen? Tell me. They will regroup at least HUF 200 billion, which is in the order of magnitude of the higher education budget, because that is the resulting business tax revenue of small and medium-sized cities and large communities. What did you do? Nothing! You guys represent a despicable gang! They kill the country and the municipalities. Shame on you! Shame on you, nation-destroying people.
u2020-05-20-14	Dear Parliament, Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP Group, will be here to speak. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2020-05-20-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, From the words of the speakers before me, I think it can be felt that something of extraordinary importance is happening here, and I would also like to add that we are experiencing a huge step in a very bad way of legislation. It is quite clear, my fellow Member, that this law is about everything but what we read in the statement of reasons and not what the Member said on the part of the governing party or as an introduction by the Secretary of State. This is not about the development of the economy, Mr State Secretary, Member, it is not about job creation, it is not about infrastructure development, it is not about proportionality. Congressman Nacsa, allow me to point out that you also spoke about economic development, job creation, abusive opposition representatives that we spoke yesterday about the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. I suggest that you do not use the word composition that is "national government." You are already unworthy of this, you are embarrassing the word "national," Congressman. You have sacrificed 125 thousand jobs on the altar of serving Chinese great authority interests. You said you could create 70,000 new jobs with an investment of HUF 80 billion. You spend 140 billion forints from this year's budget on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Well, with this money, Congressman, it would have been possible to develop infrastructure, with this money it would have been possible to create jobs. The reason why they cannot create an adequate number of jobs from their monthly job creation programme is because they spend the money on this investment, which cannot be justified in any way, contrary to Hungarian national interests. You, fellow Members, Honourable Secretary of State, do not use this word, you are embarrassing it! Let's see what this bill is about. This bill is directly about the theft of opposition-led municipalities, citizens living in cities. Don't think we're protecting the local governments here. What is the municipality? The municipality is a body that protects the interests of the community of those living there, providing the services they can provide. It's about the people who live there. Everything they take from a local government is taken from the people who live there, it's perfectly clear. This law is about manual control and what is most typical of you: complete self-destruction. They were talking about investment, investment promotion. Well, how does a government that lies to the national authorities encourage investment with a vulnerable, cheap wage labour force? ! They are proud of this, by the way, of their lobbyists, of the members of the government, and they can come here, because they cannot defend themselves here, and they can be worked for cheap wages. They're breaking the rules on environmental protection. That's what this law is all about, anyway. All barriers are broken down, everything is sacrificed on the altar of the interests of multinational companies and other investors. It's not the people you care about, it's the investments from which you can fatten your own moonyard. That is what this proposal is about, fellow Members. Let us look specifically at the quite amazing hypocrisy that Congressman Nacsa and the Secretary of State have said that they are not taking anything away from the municipalities, because these investments are being transferred from the local government to the county municipality. Mr Belló pointed out the contradiction that the capital city, a city with county rights, should not be affected. Well, Mr. Secretary, where, in particular, what paragraph excludes county-righted municipalities? [[To Dr. Balázs Orbán speaking to Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Honourable Congressman Nacsa, I see that you are talking very well, you are not really interested in the opinions of other Members, but answer the question: if, for example, in the case of a city with county rights, such a zone is appointed, that investment is taken away and given to the county municipality, then how does the vote of the county-righted city prevail? I don't know, you know, Congressman, people who live in county-rights cities can't vote in county council elections. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oops!]] In particular, these investment lots will go out in such a way that decisions will be taken over their heads by bodies, a local government, the county municipality, which had no opportunity to influence their composition in any way. It's quite amazing, and even in your practice, it's an unprecedented measure. But if, let's say, a county-righted city is not affected by such a withdrawal or the establishment of such an economic zone, it is quite clear that a agglomeration is largely borne by the efforts of the people of the county seat, a county-righted city, an agglomeration built around a rural city. For example, the system of public transport, the running of travellers, the financing of public transport, from which the state also exits on the basis of this bill, must be financed by the people living in that city, but they would take away these opportunities and the region and agglomeration. That's pretty amazing. Not to mention that they're talking about county councils, and we know about county municipalities, that they're only fidesz-led everywhere, and you empties them, you empties them, you don't have professionals, you don't have an apparatus. So if you look at this alone, although this is not the biggest problem of the law, it is hypocrisy in itself that these county authorities will be better suited to prepare the area for a serious investment than, say, the municipality of a county-righted city, where there are various regional development and administrative experts organized into classes. Local governments of county-righted cities, county authorities, are not prepared for this because you bled them out. So much as an introduction, the law gives the government the right to make a decree, as has already been said, based on the Prime Minister's decision, to invest in certain investments, and you take them away and throw them to the county government. But it also involves taking away various properties, rights, property rights, removing the possibility of regulation from the hands of those living there, specifically those affected. Let it be clear that you do not go against the interests of investors in any way. They're willing to do whatever it takes to get the money, and they can distribute it in your economics station. But now they are also taking away the possibility of municipalities, cities that are still willing to make any restrictions in the interests of the people living there or in order to protect the environment. They're taking this! It is quite clear what specific features will apply to these economic zones, in particular spatial planning, environmental regulation, and even the possibilities of heritage conservation. It is included in this proposal that special regulations will also be authorised in the county municipality in the context of legislation on the protection of the environment. In English: An investment may start in the territory of a given city, we can see an example of this in practice, directly near residential areas, residential environments and in any way the people living there, or the city leaders who are truly democratically elected by them, or a body will not be able to create regulations that can determine and protect the lives, health or peace of the people who live there. It is quite amazing that they are bringing this limit down to HUF 5 billion, which is practically valid for a larger hotel investment. You do not make any other restrictions, so how much jobs you create, what economic impact this investment has. It is said that 5 billion forints and the government on the other side said that this can be done, and practically anything can be done about it in a given settlement, because they give the county government under your manual control the right to do so. Let us be clear, because it is here that it is quite amazing to say that any opposition representative would be a lobbyist for the municipalities. It's not like that. You are ignoring the local government, we have heard it from the solo before me, but I think it doesn't surprise anyone, especially the self-governments where the citizens who live there choose an independent leader of opposition or non-government. We've been over this a lot. But let it be clear that if these resources, these opportunities, are taken away from the cities, they are taken away from the villages, they are not punishing these elected leaders or the bodies, or the local government alone, but the people who live there; the people who live there, regardless of who they voted for, regardless of whether they are oppositionists, pro-government or whether they are interested in a local government election. People living there are deprived of the possibility of accessing public services, which are essential to their lives, in the right capacity. After all, the kindergartens have to be run from business tax revenues, the kindergartens have to be renovated, the drinking water supply has to be maintained, the sewage treatment is to be solved, the waste transport is to be managed from this, and the roads can also be renovated from these revenues. Local authorities are in a very difficult situation, but such a measure puts them in an impossible position, putting the supply of these basic public services at risk. I repeat: you are not punishing local governments, you are robbing local governments, you are putting people in these cities, in these villages, in these districts, in an impossible position. So no one here is a lobbyist of the municipalities, we speak for the interests of the Hungarian people, whose interests you have once again submitted a bill. This is quite unacceptable, in addition, of course, to raise other constitutional objections. [[10.20]] But what are the effects of this proposal? We could list environmental protection here, health care, and there will not be an opportunity to influence the calmness of the people there. And here is a very important aspect of this bill, which has not yet been discussed by a speaker before me, which is linked to an extremely important public service. By the end of last year, you have had the desire to withdraw state support and price supplement for the financing of local public transport and to implement it here, in this bill. So, in Hungarian, they make a provision that, in the case of municipalities, local public transport must be paid first from the business tax. This is once again a say in local self-determination, but in particular, this means that it is formally expected that a local community, a local government, will pay its entire cost to public transport. I think you know, too, ladies and gentlemen, that there is hardly a municipality, there is hardly a city that can do this in itself, and if they do, it means that the quality of service must be reduced. This will punish the people who live there again, whether they are opposition or pro-government voters. They will also act against public transport, we heard here yesterday, we can say that false speeches in the climate protection debate, if you make it impossible for community transport to operate in an appropriate capacity in certain cities, then how can we talk about climate protection and environmental protection here? Well, they expect people and municipalities living there to finance public transport and to withdraw their state price supplement and state support. Otherwise, we can say that the system is quite wrong and disproportionate. Here I have referred to the fact that, say, there is a city with county rights, there is a large rural town, and the people who live there will then have to maintain public transport in its entirety, without any government assistance, so that local transport in that town should not only serve the needs of the people who live there, because the workers, students and the population of the whole agglomeration must also be provided for transport, and this is also entrusted with the taxation of the citizens who live there. So this is quite amazing, and it is once again a totally disproportionate system. Let me ask you a question, Mr. Secretary. At the end of last year, the government also took a decision ordering Minister Palkovics to develop a model of public funding for local public transport, and I recall that Minister Palkovic had been given a deadline by the end of March. I asked you when you said that you were going to lose the price supplement, you were going to lose the support, how this is in contradiction, because it is quite clear that public transport is one of the most important public services, it is not expected that the settlement itself will solve this, provide funding and hope, obviously with the appropriate caution that the state might consider and use the appropriate resources to help the local financing and maintenance of public transport, and now virtually take away the funds by drawing a pen. But then you must resolve this grave contradiction, in order, on the one hand, to instruct the Minister to develop this model and, on the other hand, to say that you do not want to deal with it. By the way, did Minister Palkovic do anything? Did you put anything on the table? Did you give a report to the Prime Minister, the government, on the difficult situation of many cities due to local public transport? So I'd like you to answer that, Mr. Secretary. Overall, I would like to say that this proposal is quite shameful, but let it be clear that it is not because and not because it is the main problem that it causes the local governments to bleed out, but because it is because of a specific attack and the concrete robbery of the people who live there that you are doing. And I repeat once again, Mr Secretary of State and Congressman Nacsa, that, after what decision you made yesterday, and by encrypting a thousand billion forints, in connection with the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which is not supported by any document, you do not want to call yourself a national government. It's quite an outrage. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Dialogue, not surprisingly, has a devastating view of this amendment, but we are not surprised by the amendment. This proposal fits well into the fidesz policy of the last ten years, which revolves around two things: power and money. They want more power to make more money, and when they have money, they take more power from it, and this cycle continues. This proposal is about the people of power deciding from now on and trying to coup and hack people's power. 'Cause what are we talking about here? The government, in particular government and listed county representatives, will decide against the directly elected mayor and directly elected individual representatives [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: You are also on the list!]] and the elected list representatives, and that's not the case. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You are also a list representative!]] The thing is, they're the only ones who decide. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: The Prime Minister is also on the list!]] Once again, it's not that they decide, and that's not the problem, it's that they're the only ones who will decide. So this thinking is totally against any kind of democratic arrangement. Not to mention, what someone has already suggested here is that we accept that this law does not apply in the case of county-righted cities, but I am also curious about the guarantee of this, but it will also affect the inhabitants of county-righted cities, while they have not voted, they have not been able to vote for the county representatives who will decide. In particular, I believe that this is also against the law, but obviously the Constitutional Court will examine this issue. Mr State Secretary, my question, too, is what kind of negotiations were held and what kind of municipal alliances, and how they felt about this proposal, which I am very curious about. But if we want to talk about this a little seriously, then the truth is that there are injustices in the system, so that is true. Some settlements are lucky in some ways, some are not a matter of luck, and they gain more income. Is it worth asking whether we can build a fairer system than we are now? I think that this question is worth asking, so it is worth talking about, and I do not dispute it, but it is certainly not in this way, it is not with the people of power, for example, with the operational programmes for territorial development, the more efficient spending of EU funds, EU funds and similar methods. Mr Secretary of State argued that there is a more proportionate allocation of resources here. Then my question is why not the leaders of the specific settlements decide. By the way, this method is not far from you, because, for example, in the capital city, it was done by loading the district mayors, the district representatives who were directly elected, into the Capital Assembly. Interestingly, this method works here, but no, no, probably because you know there's a fidesz majority in the county assembly, and your people, the people of power, are sitting there, and we need to raise it to this level. So if you really wanted to have a more proportionate share of resources here, which the municipalities concerned would have had a say in, you might have used this method, but of course you didn't use this method. On the one hand, there are rubber rules in this whole amendment, it affects the whole county, and that will be decided naturally by the government. So he's gonna be looking at the investments, the improvements he's got his hands on, the ones he's not. It is likely that it will address the opposition settlements. Mr Secretary of State has identified the creation of jobs as another goal. A settlement accepts a larger investment there for two reasons, usually these two reasons, for many reasons, but two main reasons, one that people can work locally, there will be jobs, the other that will be revenue from business tax. Now you're taking away one of the most important options from the settlement. I am of the opinion that this will not help create jobs, because the municipalities accept that there will be a larger development, which affects the environment on the one hand, uses the infrastructure of the settlement, but, in compensation, they accept that it is there, because the local people can work there, and there is revenue. [[10.30]] You are now taking away one of the most important reasons for these settlements to accept various investments and developments. There is also a strange philosophical contradiction with your policy, as the Prime Minister has suggested. After all, all you have said in the last ten years is that those who are talented must be supported, those who want to work in a work-based society and the others to whom it is worth giving money, because they are striving. Compared to this, you will punish settlements where there really is a talented mayor, there is a body of representatives who plan ahead, who would like to develop their settlement, they have a good application team, and they will take these money away from these settlements, these settlements will be destroyed. It's totally against the conservative economic philosophy you've created so far! By the way, it's closer to my left-wing philosophy to try to balance the disproportionateness within the county, but it's not what they've been talking about in the last ten years, but we've gotten used to it. So this proposal is not about what the Secretary of State listed here, but rather about what happened on 13 October 2019: in several places, in several settlements, Fidesz lost the municipal elections. And what proves that? The numbers. I looked at the settlements, not the cities with county rights, just the other settlements, and I put them in order. In the first twenty, there are only six cities with fidesz, and the rest are all opposition. By accident! But I think that you have done this, and that is precisely why this amendment was proposed. So the biggest money will be taken from opposition cities, most likely, as this is what the 2019 figures show. But it is also evidence of the background to this amendment. There was the lex Baranyi with the withdrawal of the public domain charge, there was the outbreak of the Crown Virus, and they wanted to take the mayors into custody, of course, and then they withdrew it, and then when they didn't want to make any unpleasant decisions, they entrusted the mayors with the restrictive measures to be taken in their own settlement. So first it's guardianship, then it's the transfer of responsibility; it's also a very consistent position. They then continued to take away the car tax, citing the fact that, in addition to banks and multi-enterprises, municipalities should also play their part in the fight against the epidemic. So you're comparing municipalities to banks and multinationals. That's pretty amazing. By the way, to date, I cannot come to the agenda as to how to compare local governments to banks and multinationals, who, for example, in most cases give support to people who lose their jobs, as opposed to you, who do not help them outside the basic income for three months; the municipalities who nurse and help the people you sent home from hospitals. These municipalities are likened to multinationals and banks. Well, congratulations. But it's not the end of the line either, it's the 8th. District IX district. Annex VIII is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. more than 1 billion from district IX. 400 million were taken from the district. And why do I bring this up as an example? The reason why they can pull me away so selectively is because, for example, they did not take anything away from Kisvárda, or even received extra support of 440 million, obviously not opposition leadership. But I can bring up XII. a district with fidesz driving, where a penny out of 7.3 billion was not taken. There is an aid of 7.3 billion, but in the spirit of the fight against the epidemic, it was not possible to draw it away. Here, too, they really do make a very fair decision and, of course, their hands are leaning towards the Fidesz settlements. This political decision is clear because the government will be looking at you here, and the government will decide on these economic zones. I ask you honestly: do you not find it a concern that these decisions will be entrusted to a body that is far less familiar with the problems of the settlement, the challenges in the environment of the settlements, such as the elected representatives in the settlement, the people working in the settlement, who are likely to manage the cases there with a lot of experience? Good or bad, that's what I'm talking about. By this step, the leader of the LMP's faction mentioned that they will also cause terrible environmental damage. After all, they know exactly what environmental challenges such a development presents, what dangers, what problems may arise in the locality. This knowledge, this knowledge, will not be involved in these decisions, in these rules, will cause enormous environmental damage, so these improvements, which will be revealed afterwards. And who's gonna suck it? Local settlements are going to get hurt, and they're practically out of control. In summary, of course, the Dialogue will not support this proposal, and I would be very surprised if this proposal could be accepted by the Constitutional Court in accordance with the Basic Law, but unfortunately, the logic that has already been put in place in this proposal is that it will probably pass. But we trust that the Constitutional Court is sober and that it will not pass this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to apply. Here comes Congressman Tibor Bana, independent. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important achievements of the system change was the local government. If we look back at the three decades left behind, then we can see that this has been continuously dismantled and emptied by various governments. This was increasingly true as time progressed, but this has been particularly true since 2010, since the Fidesz governments, after a two-thirds victory in 2010, did everything they could to reduce the leeway of the municipalities. By the way, this was true not only for municipal authorities, but also for county municipalities, there were also transfers of powers, and their assets were taken away. I'll come back to that later. Of course, if we look at this bill and I am pleased that various arguments have been raised here during the general debate, then we can really say that, and if we reject what has happened since 2010, then we could hope that we could actually create a fairer situation. After all, it may be considered that not only a given municipality should benefit from the positive consequences of the investments that this is primarily affecting, in which the development takes place. But here I must add, ladies and gentlemen, that if, on the other hand, we look at what has happened in the last ten years, I cannot be in good faith at all, because, unfortunately, the Fidesz government has always tried to shape the laws in such a way that it controls its various decisions in such a way that it meets its authority interests. On this basis, I am sure that this would also happen in this case, i.e. move towards a political-based distribution of money. Nevertheless, as I have mentioned, it is worth debating that it is worth reviewing this current system, and it would be good to have a professional debate in this respect at Parliament level, and, of course, it is very important to involve various city leaders in this debate regardless of party positions. [[10.40]] But let us look at the other side of this story, ladies and gentlemen, because it has also been seen in the last 30 years that there have been a lot of settlements and I am not talking about cities with county rights here, and not so much about medium-sized cities, but about smaller settlements, where the focus was that a certain town manager, a particular community, could take steps, attract investments that the settlement had evolved, and it is necessary to put salt on that in many cases they could do so. Well, if this bill is adopted, this is the other side of this issue, then these municipalities will be less interested in attracting such investments and thus trying to improve the quality of life of people living in settlements. So, Honourable Parliament, this may be more in the direction that you will wish to distribute these funds through the county councils on a political basis, through the county assemblies, through the county assemblies where there is a pro-government, fidesz majority everywhere; and it is no accident that you have embedded this proposal in such a framework. And, yes, they're ignoring the opinion of the locals. Because if we look at the results of October 2019, we can see that from Szombathely to Dunaújváros through Eger, there have been numerous opposition victories in cities with county rights, and we will now accept that the cities with county rights will not really be involved in this proposal, although I am skeptical in this respect, like my opposition colleagues, as I have before speakers, but let us accept this because it would be really legal nonsense that cities with county rights would be affected, as their name would include county rights and delegate such powers to the county self-government. This would therefore certainly be unacceptable, and I take it from Mr Secretary of State's indications that perhaps this aspect has actually been taken into account, and I hope that is the case. However, let us look at the other settlements, which are not county-law, among which we can find countless where last autumn there were opposition victories: Baja, God, Jászberény, Szentendre, Vác, to mention just a few examples. In the case of Göd, we have already seen, we have seen the power arrogance of your ability to act, and I think that unfortunately this fate would wait not only for the towns and villages listed, but also for other towns and villages, because it is worth adding that this issue should not only be approached by the fact that there is pro-government or opposition leadership of a given settlement, but also, in many cases, a local patriot-style effort to lead the community in a local patriot manner, regardless of colour, would also mean a dereliction for them in all cases. Unfortunately, I must say once again that, on the basis of the events of the last ten years, I am sure that the Fidesz, clearly linked municipalities would be surrounded by their specialities from this point of view. If we look at the measures taken by the individual municipalities in the emergency caused by the coronal virus epidemic, then we can say that the municipalities have been out of control. They tried to do their best to improve the situation of those living there. Several examples could be set in this respect from Western Hungary, in the neighbourhood of Budapest, to Eastern Hungary. I'd like to mention one. For example, in the case of Szombathely, a decision was made by Mayor András Nemény to grant a HUF 100,000 grant to those who lost their jobs in the emergency situation. It would be good, by the way, if the government were to complement this for all settlements, since not only in the county seat of Vas, but also in countless other settlements, they made similar decisions. And what did these municipalities get in return? What did the people who lived there get in return? You have withdrawn your share of the car tax in the municipalities and are now preparing for similar steps in terms of business tax on a political basis. Let us look at one more aspect, ladies and gentlemen, as developments and investments find a positive welcome on the part of the people who live there in the overwhelming majority of cases. However, there are cases where this does not necessarily hold up, and in these cases it may in particular increase the conflict situation if even the trade tax affecting the settlement is withdrawn from the given community, as it can continue to live off conflicts between the locals and the company. Therefore, even this reference could not remain in such a situation that, yes, there really are some problems with this investment, let us say, I am thinking of environmental considerations for certain investments, but at least from another side the settlement will benefit. Now, with this proposal, this would not be the case in the future, so this is also the argument in the other pan, and it is one of those arguments that it would not help at all that the individual municipalities have an interest in what improvements and investments should be made. And the county authorities; I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that I would like to return to this. What you are doing is very shady, honourable Secretary of State, my fellow members of the Government. Why do I say that? Because county assemblies and municipalities have been continuously emptied from 2010 onwards, their assets have been taken away, this has been a priority for all county municipalities, and now that they see that there is such a political opportunity and that they have been able to obtain a majority throughout last autumn's municipal elections here in county assemblies, they believe that it will be good if this power is delegated, and thus put them in a worse position by the opposition and, as I said, by the overwhelming majority of cases of local patriotic leaders, which have tried to do everything to improve; which, in fact, had an impact not only on the residents within the boundaries of the settlement, but also on a small region and surrounding settlements. So, in this respect, back to my first thought, yes, it is worth discussing. It is worth considering how this situation could be changed, but we should have said that, before this proposal was made, there was a sufficient degree of consultation with the stakeholders, the mayors, but unfortunately it was not so in the overwhelming majority of cases. I can only give a very minimal example of the fact that there have been substantive professional discussions in the course of the preparation before the submission of certain legislative proposals. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, has a very sound introduction, which is about creating jobs. The government will do everything in its power to ensure that, once the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic has been resolved, this can happen, develop the areas in question, create new jobs, and replace the job losses. Unfortunately, that is the case, and as time progressed, it was increasingly true from 2010 onwards; for I remember that when I came to the Parliament in 2010, I was even more optimistic about certain decisions, and I thought that they would indeed be done on the basis of professional considerations, following substantive debates. For a year or two, they were missing, and then it became more and more disappearing, and it is not typical in Parliament at all. And indeed, it can be said, Honourable Parliament, that the Fidesz government regards the whole country as a special economic zone; a special economic zone where only your little kings can rule. That is the case, then, Honourable Parliament. For my part, as an opposition MP in Vas County, I will do everything in my power to get this over with as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-20-20	We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. [[10.50]]
u2020-05-20-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ferenc Gyurcsány, former Prime Minister, Head of Group, spoke about many things: transistors, economic analyses. He did not mention how much the municipalities were indebted when he was Prime Minister, nor did he say that they were constantly putting an increasing public task on the municipalities, while the real value of the normative state contribution was constantly being reduced. He did not mention that by the time the debt consolidation started in 2011, the state had to take over 1364 billion forints of debt from the municipalities, all because of Ferenc Gyurcsány's far from being a blessing. These were left out by the former Prime Minister to talk about the fact that the local government sector had reached its destination because he was the Prime Minister, and the municipalities had to deal with the huge shortages of bonds, loans and, of course, the sale of real estate assets, especially the county authorities and small settlements. It would be worth a separate speech as to where these sold-out real estate assets went in the Socialist Berk, but about this some other time. You only make assumptions about the law, you don't talk about facts. You tell me what's gonna happen. Dear fellow Members, You think of cart camp logic, you have a opposition voter, a pro-government voter. These developments will affect everyone, as well as opposition voters and pro-government voters. Do you believe that in opposition settlements run by opposition politicians, there is no pro-government voter? That's exactly how we'd feel if we started riding on this, where all the pro-government voters are. It's not that. It is about ensuring that all Hungarians have access to development, that all Hungarian settlements have a fairer and more proportionate distribution. So you don't want a fairer and more proportionate distribution. My fellow Member, Mr Kocsis, tried to make a little effort in this way, so that a fairer and more proportionate system would be closer to his left-wing economic policy. This is now a fairer and more proportionate system, honourable Member. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-22	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The thing is, the rhetoric of the government and the ruling party is amazing. It's amazing how they involve more and more enemies in their own battles, otherwise they're totally insane. So far, someone's been a lobbyist in Brussels. The opposition is Brussels' lobbyist, the opposition is pro-European. Now the opposition has suddenly become a lobbyist for local governments. But I beg you, what are we talking about? If the state of the house, then the municipalities in this house are building bricks. And, yes, shoot me here, I'm a lobbyist from the local government. The municipalities who, I must add, are slowly the last bastion of the democracy that you are tearing down from brick to brick. And I must add that there is a creepy symbol of the fact that the nighttime democracy killer Zsolt Semyen announced this law, that he notes it again. He's the one with all these laws that break democracy over the past few years. And no matter what they say, I'm from Debrecen, an ex-member of a county town. You say that cities with county rights are not affected by this. We have people in despair about what's going to happen, because they know your drills. You know very well that you have to read behind the lines, and now you don't have to read behind the lines, because the bill doesn't say that it doesn't apply to cities with county rights. There are seven such projects for Debrecen. And we also know very well in settlements, not usually, industrial parks are these investments, and industrial parks cannot be separated from settlements, or in industrial parks it is not possible to separate that one investment is a priority economic zone, and the other is not, because the road is common, all the infrastructure leading there is common. This is gonna end terribly, I'm afraid. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-24	Thank you. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes for two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-25	Thank you, Mr. President. From what I can see, Congressman Nacsa is getting to the right place. Indeed, if a measure is taken that seriously affects cities and municipalities, then the people living there are being punished, whether they are opposition or pro-government voters or not. And when such an outrageous decision is made, as yesterday, that a thousand billion forints will be spent on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, then not the opposition Hungarian voters, but all Hungarian people, all members of the Hungarian nation, will be punished, and every member of the Hungarian nation will be harmed by the fact that you serve the great powers of China. When you refuse to help people in times of crisis who are in the most difficult situation, who have already lost their livelihood, not only the opposition, but also the pro-government people are let down by their own decisions. So in this respect, I consider what Congressman Nacsa has said to be a step in the right direction. I wrote a letter to the leaders of the most important local government associations about the bill, asked their opinion and asked them to listen to their voices, to speak up, to express their views on how this proposal affects the local government system itself. From the few answers that have already arrived here in the last few days, it is quite clear that there is a negative intent on your bill. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, have you spoken to anyone? Does any of your government's opinions of professional organizations matter to anyone? I would like this issue to be clarified here in relation to county-righted cities. The letter of the law does not rule out county-righted cities, and a situation can indeed arise here where they highlight a zone, an economic investment from a county-righted city, and a body will make decisions about a given city, the composition of which cannot be voted by the population of a county-righted city. Let us be clear on this, I believe that this is a serious problem in itself. Thank you.
u2020-05-20-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to make a two-minute speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. It is now up to the speakers who have been notified in writing. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We've been hearing a lot of opinions for the last nearly two hours. I particularly agree with my fellow opposition Members, that is not a question, as we have seen what has happened to the municipalities in recent times. I would now go back to February 25, 2020; then there was a debate on a bill, which was a debate on the bill on investment in achieving the public interest objective, and then we had already covered the business tax. Commissioner Orbán remembers when he said that there was such an intention, and then, in a later speech, he quickly withdrew that it would only be due to one competitiveness thing to affect the withdrawal of business tax revenues from the municipalities. Then it will be less than three months, and we will face this bill here in the Hungarian Parliament. It was expected, since I said that even then, after the removal of motor vehicle taxes and the freezing of the tourist tax in 2020, it is likely that they will touch the largest public revenue in the municipalities. In the spring of 2019 I wrote a study in the Local Government Review of Comitatus: the impact of tax changes on the municipal budget, in which I examined how the proportion of public revenue and the intensity of investment in some municipalities could be achieved. I also think it is important to highlight this here because most of the investment can be covered by public revenue. Not only does this tax affect local governments to this extent, but it is the legislation introduced in 1988, but it is no longer living, which allowed a part of the personal income tax to be left with the municipalities. You erased it. Why was it important, and why did I bring the personal income tax here now? At the time, this was particularly important for local authorities' bodies of representatives, decision-makers, to be motivated to make better investments, to improve the development of the locality, and to create more personal income tax funds in the locality, because of this they will have more revenue. So motivation and making the settlement attractive were one of the directions of this personal income tax refund to municipalities. You don't have that now, do you? What this bill is about, and my fellow opposition Members have already expressed their views on this for a long time, is that you are the county general assemblies, which form a pro-government majority, the path that will set out in each county what kind of investments should be made in which settlements, and given that there may be investments in a specific economic zone designated in a settlement, which will take place in a settlement 100-150 km away from the settlement. Because it has just been said from the lips of my fellow Member Nacsa that we will need improvements in the surrounding settlements, and that is exactly what this will mean, because that is where they come to work, then they too will benefit from these investments. Yeah, but that's not in this legislation. So really, ad absurdum may be 100-150 kilometers away, in my opinion, pro-government settlements will receive benefits and benefits from which they will then be able to make these investments there. [[11.00]] The aim of public revenue is precisely to play a role in maintaining settlements, making them as beautiful, attractive and livable as possible. Yeah, only if they're cut off, then obviously settlements will suffer damage to a degree that's irreversible. Believe me, people will not go to the county assembly members to knock on the door, but they will go to the mayor, and we will allow this investment to come here, we have authorized them, even in terms of environmental damage, and we will not build roads and sidewalks here, we will not park here, we will not build playgrounds here. Well, then the mayor will tell you to move 150 kilometers to another settlement, because that's where those investments were built from the business tax. So it's pretty amazing and outrageous. I would like to deal with the procedure itself a little more in this speech. Not so long ago, on 17 April, when this decree of government came out, the concept of a special economic zone must now become familiar with more and more of these concepts, and this is a good indication of your legislation that new concepts are always emerging, it was still that, in the case of investments of HUF 100 billion, an area is likely to be declared a special economic zone. Almost a month goes by, it decreased to HUF 5 billion, so it was destroyed. Now my question is that if they wake up in the morning in a month, they're going to need another push, then they're going to cut this limit to 250 million forints. Because then let's face it, practically everything in the whole country will be decided by the county authorities, the county assemblies that are in the pro-government majority. And, of course, I continue to believe that with these steps you will respond to 13 October 2019, because at that time, a large majority of people said that there was enough of the governance that you are conducting, and that is why they very rightly gave the government into the hands of opposition and independent city leaders. I hope that the speeches that are being said here today will get you back on doing this, because, as my fellow opposition Members have already said, social consultations have been cancelled, the National Association of Local Governments, as the largest municipal representative body, has also issued a communication in which it completely rejects this bill. I hope that, in the next and further stages of the debate, we will be able to get to the point where the bill is withdrawn, just as it was done yesterday with plastics. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-28	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You say that the municipal elections have nothing to do with the fact that this package of proposals is now coming before Parliament. Then I would like to ask the Secretary of State, and if he is going to take part in the debate, he will be able to answer it, and it would be possible to argue if he did not just say in the closing words why they had not thought of it five years ago. Why not then? Were the municipal developments even more balanced then? Or were the taxes collected all over the place that they didn't want to centralize? Or did it come to your mind only after you lost many cities with county rights, lost many smaller settlements, and then you want to take away the resources of these settlements? Nor is it true that there was no mechanism called tax power, which they did not want to compensate for in these settlements, since not all settlements were in the same situation from the beginning, that they could collect the same amount of taxes, that they could carry out the same same number of mandatory tasks at the same level, that they could carry out the same number of tasks they had undertaken, or that they could have done the same amount of improvements. Therefore, the territorial balancing norm served either the residual local tax surplus or the central tax surplus, such as the weight tax or the attempt to balance this on an objective basis. Not on political grounds, Mr. Secretary. On an objective basis of calculation, this calculation was made in the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, and more money was left in the municipalities. Then you came and started centralizing. First, government offices were created, the powers of the municipalities were taken away, then the local government's money was lost and the local government's institutions, educational institutions and health institutions were taken away. I can't say the quotation mark, it was very well centralized at the educational institutions, when they created the institution named after Klebelsberg Kuno, the failed three or four years, and then you expect it to be better that they did 19 instead of a large institution, and then maybe it will work. They also took the hospitals of the municipalities at the health institutions, stuffed them into a huge ministry, and then they didn't work any better. I didn't mean it for a long time when I was told that you used Pécs as such a laboratory where you try things, and then, if it works, you might be able to introduce it elsewhere, or if you don't, it'll only be bad for the Pécs. You first set up the Fidesz Party Committee that decided instead of the mayor: Péter Hoppál MP, Péter Csizi MP, and Zsolt Páva, as mayor, could participate in it, or the city where he was elected, led it. And this party committee was created by you, by the way, to the greater glory of the dear leading Prime Minister, although, if we have heard correctly, he was not so pleased that this party committee was set up, but the fact is that the result was that Péter Csizi was replaced and Zsolt Páva was replaced. But now you want to turn the county assembly into a party committee. Let us face it, however, that, not five years ago, not two years ago, and not ten years ago, after being taken away from the local authorities, you have come to your mind to move additional tasks there, but you have now come to your mind to move more tasks there, not without any practice of how the county government distributes development money. Well, what a scandal it was, Mr. Secretary of State, when the TOP applications, the regional operational programme's development applications, even the elected county representatives could only look at what they would decide after signing a nondisclosure statement? ! Those were the central sources. You've cut off the normative funding system, and you've replaced it with this pass-by, doorknob, front-door, hair-bogging system, so please, who's a good friend, to say the good comrade, you can get extra funding here and there, well, other people won't get it. And now you want to bring this to the legal level. By the way, every speaker who said that it was nothing but money; this is about 710 billion forints, that's what business tax revenue is usually for cities. Most of this happens in Budapest, mostly 70 percent in Budapest and in cities with county rights. You want to put your hands on these, and the only question is that you can stop this kind of centralization. Let's go back to the beginning. First, the powers of the authorities were taken from the municipalities, then institutions were taken from the municipalities, educational and health institutions were taken from the municipalities, and now they have taken away their tax revenues from the municipalities and now they are even taking away territories. Well, imagine how you created this law. In a local government, in the administrative area of a local government, where, by law, only the local government can impose local taxes, how many taxes will there be now, Mr. Secretary of State? [[11.10]] Can the county government also levy taxes? Or will the county government also have an area that will be ripped out of the municipality, and you will take these resources from there? How are you going to do this? Of course we know how. Just as you will be raisining, and then you will be cherry-dipping in the investment that exceeds HUF 5 billion. You will choose which municipalities you want to punish, which municipalities you want to reward, which investments you want to invest, which investments you do not want to touch. There was talk of local government alliances here today. We do not know of any local government alliance, not even TÖOSZ, led by Mayor Jenő Schmidt Tabi, supports this proposal. Of course you don't support him, why would they support him? ! [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] While you are here in this House continuing to talk about popular sovereignty and self-determination, while you are constantly withdrawing the right to dispose of the municipalities, centralising, re-establishing the hierarchy among the municipalities and building up exactly the system against which you are supposed to have fought. City affairs will be decided again in the county, no different than the party committee. That's the system you're building now. Which was produced in one of the cities, and then the county decides, because they're going to be in a hierarchy of subordinations. The county government will be able to withdraw these funds, and the party people in that county will decide where and what developments are, in your opinion, justified or unsubstantiated. You're going to give up the municipal charter, you're going against your own local tax law, but you're not interested in that, because there's one thing you're interested in, that's money. This is 710 billion forints, which you want to give out as a treat to those who do a lot of lynching, pre-rooming, bowing, there may be improvements, and of course, there will be some people who will definitely get hurt. But what about those who get hurt? What about the people who live there who get hurt? They'll have a state education system, which the municipality won't be able to contribute to, because their own income has already been taken away by you, either by reference to the epidemic threat or by this law. They'll have a state health system where they are. If they want to develop and even perform their basic tasks properly, then they will take out loans. You say that the municipalities were indebted before 2010. Well, let's not pretend the world started in 2010. Well, what municipalities were the most indebted? Hódmezővásárhely under the mayor of János Lázár, under Károly Szita's Kaposvár, the mayor of Lajos Debrecen Kósa. Pécs had to be consolidated twice because it was consolidated once, and then in four years they created the same amount of deficits that had to be consolidated again during the Fidesz leadership. Since your consolidation, what you said, 1300 billion forints, since then 1300 billion forints have been reported by the central bank as 1268 billion forints have been borrowed by these municipalities. And, Mr. Secretary, it took your consent to do so. Well, at least let's not make that argument. You will simply centralize, take away the remaining self-determination of the municipalities, take away their revenue, and then the county party soldiers will decide what developments will be made in the county and in the cities, namely for those who are kind to you, thereby completely emptying the local government, which was one of the greatest merits of the change of regime. Therefore, we will not support this. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-20-30	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-20-31	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, In this debate, we must say some of the things that you are ignoring, even if I do not trust and believe that anything would discourage you from adopting this law. The adoption of the law in itself is a shame that, 30 years after the change of regime, 30 years ago, they are now submitting one of these, which is essentially the slaughter of that, I would say, of course, that may sound better to you, but that is what is very, very far from their behaviour as democrats. Today they pretend, or they do, to spit up in the air, to stand down, and now they can bear all the consequences. I would like to address not only domestic but also international aspects of this. Why I said the same thing, there may be more examples. It is not only the political adoption of the law itself, which it shows well, by the way, that all the Fidesz Members have practically escaped from the room and refuse to participate in the debate. And to just make one of the simplest arguments about how different you are from what you are doing, you know who I am referring to by adopting a law on the impact assessment of such a prominent piece of legislation. You have not prepared such an impact assessment. As punishment, I deserve to read to you the legislation you have adopted, word for word, to see what you have decided before, and then to ignore it. The impact assessment shall examine the impact of the proposed legislation on all relevant impacts, social, economic, budgetary consequences, environmental and health impacts, administrative burdens. Otherwise, these investigations must be given to the committees of Parliament. For example, you have not provided this to the Committee on Budgets. You are violating legislation, it is unconstitutional and it is illegal what you are doing. I understand that with the power of the majority, you will legitimize this, but those who are personally involved in this should not hide behind the cover that you otherwise agree politically. You're taking orders to do something anti-popular, which is an act against the change of regime, and it goes against the rules you've adopted. They therefore essentially do what they do, according to their interest at the moment, where they drag the various processes into this and to that end. This includes in a very shameful way, as I said, 30 years after the adoption of the municipal law, the entire municipal system will be introduced into this practically dragged logic. The second is to draw attention to how they are acting again, in a way that I would like to draw the attention not to you, but to everyone else, because you are simply ignoring that when you cross the border and start talking about how important national self-determination is, and how important it is for Hungarians, Hungary, to do so, to argue with this, and then, when they come home, you will immediately forget this, and there is only one thing that is that everything is about Viktor Orbán/government... and then the majority of governments will have to follow, that you will otherwise contribute to this and decide accordingly. You're trying to blow cold and warm at the same time. That is impossible, by the way, except for fraudsters who may claim to be capable of doing so. You are not able to do this, but you are doing one thing: the municipal system is being reduced in this framework and they are trying to dominate it. [[11.20]] There may be political reasons for this. My fellow Members have repeatedly said that this has an electoral consequence, a criminal action. We accept that, I accept that, I agree with that, let us accept that part, and let us see what you are using in this framework and do it accordingly. What I see is that in the concrete text of the law, international practice, when we talk about special zones, is essentially ignored unless you want to take into account the Russian and Chinese interests that are becoming increasingly present in this Parliament. I am now talking specifically about the Chinese interests, the attempt to act in accordance with the practices of the special economic zones established there. But what we do know is that it's a different system, even if you've become representatives of this interest here recently. I think that professionally it is necessary to draw attention to the very big change that will result from this law, that you will restore the hierarchy that will enforce and give rise to the higher rights of county assemblies. They're assigning new types of government tasks and powers. I believe that what you have developed in this way will create a whole new situation, whether in terms of asset management or taxation, and will create a system in which you will introduce control of a telephone. We have seen examples of this in history. Indeed, this can be done, and a system can be set up that can be reached by a few steps to the head of a settlement, to whom instructions are given, despite the fact that he was previously elected by the people and made a decision contrary to their interests. In any case, the international category includes my fellow Member, who has already mentioned with a half sentence the fact that the European municipal charter is essentially ignored. You are completely opposed to that spirit, while Hungary accepted it. I mentioned earlier that you are unable to bring about the harmony of different laws. Here, not only were they unable, they do not want, but they do something quite different from this point of view, and I believe that this is accompanied by the termination of the system-changer values. I cannot help but stress this from this point of view, and I would like to continue with the idea that my fellow Member László Szakács has already discussed how you have carried out the consolidation of the municipalities. You are very enthusiastic about what cities or settlements have done this. I bring this up because among these cities there are 24 former Fidesz-led county municipalities and urban municipalities, where, with your cooperation, they took on a very high-rate loan of several billion forints. From the multibillion HUF loan that you later consolidated and claimed was of great interest to the local government, you deliberately owed these municipalities before 2010 so that they could pay the commission of 24 of these cities with government control, and you also did so. You did this. And then they'll try to make up for how much you're saving the local government. He had nothing to do with this! [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: This is quite amazing!]] Mr. Secretary, after me, you're welcome to state your objections. But the measure you've done in this is unacceptable. Moreover, the same debt has already been accumulated by the municipalities in general, in Hungarian, your move has led to nowhere. You did this. I'd be happy to discuss this with you, Mr. Secretary. But I'm telling you, take out the documents of the Office for Government Control, and you can see what László Domokos did at the time, the local government manager of Békés County, who contributed HUF 6 billion in borrowing to enable you to campaign. Yeah, that's what happened. And a number of other people can be listed from this Parliament, because they are still sitting here today, those who were indebted to the municipal system at the time. Let's go into the details. Mihály Orbán, opposition leader at the time, promised the local government leaders in Kaposvár to tax it calmly, because if we are next, we will consolidate it. That's what you did, and you're going to lie in the face of the world that you would have done anything for the authorities. So what do they do now? They eliminate those who are being played in this because of their current political interests. Yes, you have cheated, and politically, Parliament's budget, the central budget, has been used for everything you've done. By the way, this has also contributed to the fact that the deceived people have supported your political role. Your lie didn't start yesterday, it started a long time ago. In my opinion, what we are seeing here is, in fact, seems to be just the beginning. They are looking for solutions and catch on how to take as much revenue from the municipalities as possible. What is currently happening is that the tasks are being increased, the powers are being lost and the resources needed are being deprived of the municipalities. As regards the business tax, which represents a substantial revenue for the municipalities, several of my fellow Members spoke about the interest of local authorities in investing, creating jobs in the local government, in the local government. But this opportunity is being taken away from there, and in this way the source is being taken from them at the same time. However, if the area that is linked to this is also lost, it also follows that not only the part concerning the business tax, but also the part concerning the construction tax, does not fall within the competence of the municipality. This will be the next step that you have put forward in this way. I believe that the doubts that are raised against you are justified. We could list what they've done over the past few years when they put their hairy paws in the door, and then the whole wolf showed up in there and tried to make everything theirs. They're desecrating the local governments here too, which is why I'm saying that you're unworthy of dealing with this at all. As a last thought, I would like to mention in any case that you must clarify whether Minister Gulyás is a source of law or not. If, after his words, it is necessary to interpret this law as to who this law applies to, which cities and whom it does not apply to, then I would respectfully suggest that instead of this type of legislation, they should switch to the fact that at least the Hungarian Gazette clearly shows how this applies to the capital and the cities with county rights, while I do not wish to distinguish between settlements. This law will be revoked. We certainly don't support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[11.30]]
u2020-05-20-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I will inform you again, because it has been said several times in the Chamber that we are too few: Honourable Parliament, today we have started our work by announcing that, in order to protect our health, only the two Members who spoke in the debate and who then asked to speak will be present in the Chamber. I think I had to repeat this for the sake of fairness, which is why there are so many of us in this room, I think, even more than we could possibly be in order to protect our health. Thank you for your understanding. This, I think, was something that I had to say to all of us and to inform the public. Here comes Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, independent. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-20-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is a very special bill, which we are talking about, because it is an electoral fraud with retroactive effect. That's what's happening. That's what this bill is about. So, my dear Fidesz and dear KDNP, there are many forms of fraud, and I myself have personally experienced such fraud in elections, and there are many discrediting campaigns, propaganda, and you do not hesitate at all if it is the silence or inability of your opponents, but this is now the electoral fraud with retroactive effect. You cannot accept that the democratic will of the people in the municipal elections has not chosen you in many Hungarian settlements, in many places coffee has been brewed for you, and you refuse to accept it, so you will use this typical Orbán mindset and you will rob these settlements. At all, the fact that this bill lies before us is an open confession, an open admission to the unconstitutional nature of the regulations made on grounds of an epidemic threat, such as the special economic zone established in the area of the city of Göd and the regulation on special economic zones itself. Why are they unconstitutional? Well, because they had nothing to do with the emergency, they had nothing to do with dealing with the epidemic, but they had nothing to do with dealing with the economic consequences of the epidemic for three reasons. Gergely Gulyás himself said the first reason, and he said that in the case of Göd, the aim was to provide a large investment to expand the factory. Now, this is completely independent of the epidemic, completely independent of the emergency, and the government is simply trying to push down the throat of the local population an investment, a large investment, against which these local residents are protesting. The second reason you have called it, I quote, is that the aim is to protect more than 1,500 jobs put at risk by the emergency and to create more than 2,500 new jobs. However, this does not depend on the area of the Samsung plant, or the business tax itself belongs to Göd or the county government, but on the government. What will happen to these jobs depends to a very large extent on what kind of job retention measures the government will apply at the right time, at the right stage, with the right amount. It's not a matter of going here or going there, it's up to the government. You are constantly mixing the levels, constantly washing these levels together. I understand that you would like to centralise the entire power at one point, and this point is called Viktor Orbán, but the fact is that we have not yet succeeded in breaking down the rule of law and democracy. So don't slide. These levels are not by accident different levels in a well-functioning rule of law and democracy. Then there's the third reason we need to talk about, right, why we're not talking about this regulation that Göd has been brought into, the disease management, the third reason that the government has no say in what taxes are being spent on, precisely because this level of government is supposed to have nothing to do with you. And then I have to ask here why the tax transferred from one municipality to another is a greater guarantee. And the answer can only be one: one municipality has a majority opposition and the other municipality has a fidesz majority, the opposition majority led by one opposition mayor, and the other one is a Fidesz majority body. So, obviously, you want to put the money where you and your own party soldiers can decide as you please; that's how the government and Fidesz will prevail over money that you shouldn't, shouldn't dispos. Now, I've got some bad news for you: just because you guys ripped this off in front of the House, and here you have just committed a retrospective electoral fraud, doesn't mean that this situation is going to stay thick and unconstitutional, or it's going to be against the law, we can call it whatever it is, so it's definitely an illegal measure. I'm really sick of the fact that since you've been ruling, we've been going through a lot of personalised legislation, and we're constantly seeing what kind of economic lobbys are, disguised as individual representatives' motions, nesting in this House, and then voting these laws as machines. And here we have this, which is really an election scam, and that's what we should be talking about here and talking to each other, and it's a shame, and everyone who's not blinded sees what's going on here. My fellow Members have mentioned here that they are even getting protests from Fidesz on this, so they cannot say that you are being attacked by some opposition activists and George Soros, so they should probably have more insight on this. Now, why is this unconstitutional? I would like to show you this, but the Constitutional Court's submissions, which have just been signed by the opposition, will be analysed by the Constitutional Court itself, and I have no illusions about this, but we will exhaust the Hungarian remedies. So why is it unconstitutional? On the one hand, there is a prohibition in the Fundamental Law on the right to property and non-indemnity ownership. In order for the municipality to be able to perform its tasks, these principles, principles and principles guaranteed by the Fundamental Law must apply. Now, if the withdrawal of either Göd or any municipality in relation to their own property is made without complete, unconditional and immediate compensation, then it clearly jeopardises the maintenance of operational capacity and ultimately the performance of the municipality's basic tasks itself. The second is that there is the principle of self-government and popular representation, which is also part of the Fundamental Law, which states that a municipality may own its own property, doesn't it, on the one hand, ensure that the municipality can carry out its own tasks and, on the other hand, forms the basis of the management of the municipality, and otherwise falls within the sphere of autonomy of the municipality. This bill is therefore a serious violation of municipal autonomy. What I would like to talk about, and it also belongs to this, and it is also the unconstitutional category, the treading of environmental rights and, overall, the intervention in making decisions about our own health, because according to the Fundamental Law, everyone has the right to a healthy environment, which is included in the Hungarian Fundamental Law. Now, we have seen in Göd that there is this industrial-innovation development area, which Gergely Gulyás also mentioned that the government would definitely want to expand, and you do not mind at all that the Göd population is protesting it hand and foot, precisely because they fear their health and are afraid of the impact of this expansion on the environment. I was in Göd not so long ago, I saw you in the industrial area, I talked to local people, I've been talking to them for a while, and I can see exactly what the problem is. It is not by chance that the local residents do not want to increase the facility to such a great extent, and it is infinitely unfair, because by doing what you want to do with Göddel and many other municipalities, it will result in those who live locally and suffer pollution, dirt, stench, dust, harmful substances, whatever we talk about in the case of a particular investment, negative externalities throughout the country, they will not benefit from the money, others who do not absorb all this, dusty air, who will not be so threatened by the range of pollutions, vapours, gases that come out of a particular plant, they will receive money. Well, how is that fair? That's not fair. That's definitely not fair. By the way, the rights granted by the Aarhus Convention are also violated by what you have done specifically in connection with Göd, but this will also be read by the Constitutional Court in the submission. [[11.40]] So it's deeply undemocratic, and it also clearly shows how much Fidesz and KDNP's so-called green rotation is worth. If anyone, after yesterday's operation, had finally made a good decision about plastics, quickly withdrew it... You really can't be disappointed. Now, given this, I think that if you had a little green in you, you would have a hand-to-hand protest, say, against this proposal, not to the extent that you are trying to justify why this is necessary. I really see Fidesz and KDNP kneeling down without thinking about the interests of large investments and large investors, always against the will of the people and always against nature and the environment. This is your trademark, this is XXI. In the century, it is a sin that is not an apology, in the age of climate change, in the climate crisis. You can read exactly that this weekend there are frosts along the ground, you can see what the weather is like, we also know that the epidemic threat is related and will be related to climate change, as scientists have been saying for decades that the emergence and spread of new viruses is one of the side effects of the climate crisis. So if you had a little bit of rationality, insight and sense of responsibility, you wouldn't be bringing such laws here, and you wouldn't be using the Hungarian Parliament for this, but rather for a change that would be able to mean our lives and the lives of the generations after us in the coming years, decades or even in the century. So, ladies and gentlemen, for my part, I can say that a new version of electoral fraud can be learned by this bill. What is happening in the Hungarian Parliament is a disgrace, it must be said, but I think that further action must be taken at least by the opposition side, and we will be on it to do so, because we will not abandon the Hungarian self-governments against you.
u2020-05-20-34	Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Varju of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-35	Thank you very much. I take the opportunity to add two more points to the debate. One of the things you have done, and I will quote you in this regard, since it was Vice-President Lajos Szűcs who drafted it and sent it to me in a letter about Göd, that unfortunately a political situation had arisen in Göd, where the elected mayor, by the way, argued constantly against the investment by the ally of DK. And as a criminal action, you have passed that legislation and have made a decree on what you are doing with this investment. And you seem to like this method and extend it, because it has huge consequences for municipalities and even for political opportunities. You are taking advantage of this opportunity, which is why this draft law is unacceptable, and we must say yes, we must say that it violates the right of self-determination of local society 30 years after the change of regime, that local governments are drastically restricted in this respect, and that it must therefore be withdrawn. It must be withdrawn because of the uncertainties that have already been mentioned before that it is inaccurate to whom it applies at all. And to bring up another example of their inaccuracies: This is about what the regulation itself considers to be of particular importance for the national economy, whether it is necessary to be above HUF 5 billion at the same time, or to be of significant economic importance in the county, or to be a job creator, or, by the way, to be valid separately, and to be able to shape it at your convenience, I do not know that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's why they're revoking the law. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-36	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-20-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see anyone here who's ever seen a county council inside. If there's one... [[László Varju: Nana! There's one here! For several cycles!]] One. Then, especially from you, Congressman Varju, I would have expected you to begin your speech by apologizing. [[László Varju: Are you from me? It's okay. The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't know what time you were a county rep, but between 2006 and 2010, I had the pleasure of being county general meeting president, so I'll tell you the numbers, okay? The hospitalless budget of the Somogy County Municipality was HUF 10 billion, and we received 5 billion normative state aid, and we had 1 billion tax revenues and all our own income from the food fees. Now, we should have run the social institution network, public education, cultural institutions and so on. And it wasn't so loud, I didn't hear you speak anywhere or hold a press conference, that otherwise the county government budget was missing billions. You just told me what Mihály Varga said in Kaposvár. He said, "If it doesn't work out otherwise, take out a loan, because it's impossible not to feed the children, the sick and the old." Otherwise, the amount in the current legislation serves the common good. I don't understand hysteria. Where do you think this money will go, abroad? They've never been against it. Going to rural development hurts you. Or maybe it's just that we've had six months of experience with opposition-led municipalities, consulting contracts, buddy commission fees, filling media companies, maybe that's what you're worried about. That's why they should apologize. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-39	Thank you, Mr. President. I am very pleased, Mr Nacsa has come back at just the right time, although several Members have spoken here now, my fellow Member has also spoken about the situation of the municipalities. Congressman Nacsa said that the Fidesz government consolidated cities, municipalities, deprived them of their debt. Let me get this straight. Some things were done not by the government, but by the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayers. So, basically, the debt accumulated in the local government sphere was spread among Hungarian taxpayers, that's all that happened, it wasn't the government's benefit, but, on the basis of a government decision, all Hungarian taxpayers had to bear these costs; the government debt remained. It is very important that, when this step was taken, tasks and funding were removed from the municipalities, so they completely transformed the system, but not in the right direction. Thus, overall, the problem since the change of regime of underfunded municipalities has not been solved, but has been further distorted. So now there is much less revenue for the municipalities compared to their duties, and we could give a long list of the various measures that you have affected their municipal operations. With regard to the withdrawal of the car tax, I have already indicated to State Secretary Orbán that two thirds of small settlements may face serious liquidity problems. Last week, the Secretary of State promised me that if this problem arose, this decision would be reviewed. I would like the Secretary of State to indicate that he has been informed and that he has taken the preliminary steps, because I hear from all directions that a very tragic situation is about to emerge. But likewise, and we will talk about this, or we should talk about it, and I hope that the Secretary of State will respond to the withdrawal of support for local public transport. Similarly, it is a huge problem that no exemptions or deadlines have been granted for the payment of the utility tax, leaving the municipalities to maintain the water utilities. Nationally HUF 3000 billion is missing from the system within 15 years to maintain the most important public service, drinking water and sanitation. So, overall, I can say that Fidesz has not only done something to improve the functioning of the municipalities in ten years, but has taken very drastic measures to the contrary, and has made it empty, making it impossible for the proper management of the local government. Thank you.
u2020-05-20-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to independent Congressman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-41	Thank you for the opportunity. The thing is, Minister Süli just busted you for giving an interview to the People's Republic and said that Paks II investment would probably not be a special economic zone. János Süli, Minister without a portfolio for power plant expansion, said that the Paks II investment would not be taken away by the political leadership from the 19 thousand inhabitants of Tolna County. According to Süli, the government would hand over the large investment to the counties in cases where they see that the implementation is not going smoothly because of the host settlements. Mr. Pakson doesn't have that problem, the minister explained, so... 15 ounces? You can stay. So, what's this? Would you kindly, honourable Secretary of State, press a button and explain to me what Minister Süli's statement means in your interpretation exactly? [[11.50]] Because if we understand this interview well, then that's the answer to this bill, and what I'm talking about, if the public objects, and you don't like it, they'll lift it up to county level and shove it down people's throats that they don't want. Democracy? Soros? Are you kidding me? Money! They want money, and man doesn't matter! That's the problem with you! [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-05-20-42	Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take advantage of the two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us fits into the efforts of the system of national cooperation, which has been aimed at completely emptying the local government for about ten years. This is something that opposition colleagues have spoken about, but I may be able to make some new points in this speech. If I may, I would like to make a few comments on this in general, and then I would like to turn to the bill before us, because this step that you are about to take is not merely a step in the clay of a change of regime, but is completely contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, which is not just an idea that the challenges and problems that we are about to have in place must be solved by the community that is closest to it in order to preserve efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this is not just a matter of principle, but a very serious practical question: neither are you, nor I, but no one here in this House, Kossuth Square, the capital city of Attila József, from Akadémia Street will not be able to decide where each source is best located. Nor will they be able to answer that when there is no money, a local community has to choose between two different developments, which is the priority, and which one is listed a little back in time. This will not be possible with centralization or in the hands of county authorities, which the local community will be able to assess. This is the task that voters have entrusted to elected representatives of local governments, who now, either as individual winners or as colleagues from a list, perform the task of listening to voters look around their own districts. 'Cause I'd like to tell you that you can talk to 4 or 5,000 people in person. Those represented by our colleagues in the local government can personally tell them what their problem is about, what they expect from their elected representatives. By the way, we Members of Parliament have the opportunity to have some kind of, if not direct contact with 100-150 thousand people who form a constituency here in the Parliament, we cannot keep personal contact. At the same time, in this proposal, there is a point that is as far away from the problem as possible to address the challenges. This is not working, fellow Members. The fact is that this system should be built in such a way that local elected municipalities, county governments and Parliament are fighting hand in hand to develop this society, to develop infrastructure and to develop everything that talks about the lives of the citizens of this country. You, fellow Members of the Government, have contributed to the destruction of this in the last ten years. Only a very good reading of the legislative amendment proposal before us is what we can read from it, by the way, that certain tasks will be taken over by the county municipality from the elected representatives and directly elected mayors, and from their most direct colleague, the notary. However, I believe that these tasks do not in the least overwhelm local governments where there is local industrialisation tax revenue to finance locally created tasks. The fact is that the direction in which we should go, whether with regard to the offer of state organisation or social organisation, is the opposite direction. What should be created is the possibility of keeping as much local revenue as possible in the settlements, as many of the opposition colleagues before me have already said, yes, these local communities would very much like to work for themselves and their own voters, and also for those of my fellow members of the government, because this has been raised among your speakers, perhaps my colleague Lőrinc Nacsa mentioned that these city assemblies and mayors, who were not their constituents, also represent them. That is the way it should be, fellow Members. But the thing is, this proposal doesn't represent pro-government voters, but it doesn't represent anyone. It represents only those who, due to the transfer of powers and the transfer of funds, are now experiencing some kind of increase in power, and that is not fair. Not only isn't it fair, it's definitely destructive. It is in the common interest of all of us that the economic and social crisis caused by the human epidemic should be brought to an end as soon as possible and jobs which have ceased to exist should be re-established as quickly as possible on a market basis. For example, I myself do not believe in the creative power of public works, although as a temporary solution I consider acceptable to a certain level. The large investments that this bill is about, that is exactly what I would like to promote. What I would do is help the local authorities, from which the central government has been able to recover at the moment, because they themselves have incurred additional costs not only by preventing the further infection of the epidemic by disinfection, by distributing protective equipment, but also by increasing and stressing this, the growing lists, the lists of needy ones served by the local authorities at the moment, by supplying them with food or whatever they lacked. Ladies and gentlemen, we have asked you not to withdraw funds, because, in the past few weeks, the epidemic has caused additional costs that would overwhelm local governments, but if, at least locally, the car tax could have remained, this would not be a question of countervailable invoices. At the moment, you have put the municipalities in a very difficult position, and this legislative amendment before us puts them in a very difficult position in the long term, that is to say, to preserve the situation that has arisen. I think that if you are referred to as some kind of weird social organisation background, that justice is controlling you, when you say that if one settlement has an investment, the other doesn't get it, then the local industrialisation tax revenue is unfairly distributed, one settlement becomes richer and the other poorer. But I would like to draw your attention with great respect to the fact that, at the moment, settlements with large local industrialisation tax revenue are paying solidarity contributions to those of their peers who are less fortunate or less skilled, because that is also the case with local investments, that we should be able to be clever, that we should be attractive to the investment area of which I am the mayor, a local representative, and that I would like the area to flourish. I'll give you an example. You are also breaking down the motivations of mayors to start negotiations with foreign or domestic investors that would help make the most of potential investment zones. This must be a step backwards of the national economy. I'll give you another example. If the jobs that have ceased in Budapest could be created in the agglomeration thanks to various large investments, a significant part of commuting could be removed if these investments were to be made. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Honourable Member, if you press a button, I think you can comment on the thoughts that I am sharing here, so that those investments would not only create jobs locally, but I am sorry. contribute, for example, to environmental protection by reducing commuting levels. [[12.00]] They could contribute to the deployment of public parks from local forints through local industrialisation tax revenues, for example by trying to improve bicycle transport. Try to provide opportunities for leisure activities that many of our countrymen do not now have the opportunity to do because the municipalities are suffering from a lack of resources. I will give you a few examples in particular that, in the rarest case, Pest County can control, for example, the fact that Hernád, who suffers not only from job shortages, but also from the lack of infrastructure, the lack of cultural center, and the fact that it can be used otherwise to put it nicely, has not spent well in this city. Ladies and gentlemen, You can't decide from afar. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] But I'll give you another example, one that's closer to the capital, and one that you might drive away with every day. Can you tell me, or can the General Assembly of Pest County, which street in Budaörs should be renovated at the next pace? Or can you tell me how many Turkish Ballinians suffer every day from not creating a sufficiently noisy wall next to their city on highway M7? Or can you tell me that, for example, when they land at the train station in Tárnok, they may feel, believe me, that they are in a backward Szabolcsi settlement, where there has not been money for a long time, but there is no intention of development. Ladies and gentlemen, What lies behind this decision goes beyond that. I think, and this is what the opposition colleagues have been talking about, that, yes, at the moment, 3 million of our countrymen live in a settlement that is now run by a majority of opposition mayors and opposition bodies. A good part of them has remained very popular since the elections in October 19th, and you have preserved the majority in county assemblies. That's what I see and I know. I do not want to detract from the situation so much that it is simply a question of money, but you do not always want to appear in the role of those who only know what is good for citizens, because with this step they are drawing you away from citizens and not only money, but also opportunity. These new leaders are now suffering on a number of points from the lack of funding that you will achieve with new regulations or legislative amendments, but honourable Members, I would like to set a very close example a few days ago. It is not always possible to look at the life of society and the lives of our fellow citizens from the point of view of how you can make political gain and how you can prove that the elected opposition mayor cannot otherwise be as successful as a fidesz or a KDNP. It is a striking example of this endeavour that, recently, a town with the right of the county of Érd won the right amount of money for a tender for parking and the promotion of mass sports, of course, he was willing to pay for his share. Then, after the decision, when the city had already started planning this investment, five days after that, the Prime Minister's Office withdrew this grant, saying that such a park had already been established in this city. Ladies and gentlemen, There are almost 74,000 people in this town, and the fact is that I think a public park is not enough for them to have sports activities, leisure activities, without a sidewalk, otherwise even the possibility of pushing the stroller. A single park is not enough for this, honourable Members. I would ask the rhetorical question where the elected representative of the district is from here from the National Assembly, András Aradszki from KDNP, but the thing is, I know the answer, because I can see what has been released in this city since the Democrats took over the baton in the city. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, your colleagues in this city and in any other city led by democrats are not in the interest of their fellow citizens in order to prove that a Democrat can't run a city. But believe me, people will see this, they will know it, because the elected Members whose rights and obligations I have been talking about here for almost 15 minutes now have a very direct relationship not only with the problems, but also with our fellow citizens. They'll be able to tell them that I wanted this, and that's the obstacle I've come across. And you know, fellow Members, centralising funds is always very easy, but then you will notice that not only Democrats, but also their own countries, have been systematically destroyed in the long term, because they will not know what is needed here or from the county assembly. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-05-20-44	Welcome, fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, The pre-notification speeches have ended. We now have further speeches. Congressman Attila Mesterházy was the first to speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-20-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said here in the debate, so I would like to respond to one or two things at the beginning of my speech, or it is time to pour clean water into the open cards. Unfortunately, my fellow Member, Gelencsér, has left the room. I just made a quick stats. He accused opposition representatives here of not seeing a local government from outside or inside. As I look at the people in front of me in the horseshoe, almost everyone here besides me has been a council rep or mayor, by the way. I think it may be that my fellow Member, Nacsa, was not one of the main speakers of Fidesz. [[János Bencsik, independent: KDNP!]] So I think that we should be more careful with such statements, especially if we do not have any information. Then Congressman Gelencsér also spoke about the treaties with whom they conclude in opposition settlements. This was strange because we have not long known that not only did Lőrinc Mészáros become a very successful entrepreneur, but Mr Gelencsér also became a very successful entrepreneur in Somogy County, from one moment to the next. In fact, his associates are so successful that the owners of a tobacco empire with a turnover of 1.4 billion, so Somogy's county is probably also affected by the success story in Zuckerberg, and probably has nothing to do with what kind of relationships there are and what kind of favors have been done in the past. So in Hungarian, I think that Mr Gelencsér should also be more careful in accusing his fellow Members of various lies. The other thing that Mr Orbán, State Secretary, yelled at earlier to Congressman Varju, and Mr Gelencsér also mentioned is the local government loan. I would recommend to Mr. Secretary of State, after counting all the lights in this room on the ceiling, that there was a Kehi report about the fact that there was a person who took commission from various bond issues. In 24 Fidesz municipalities, the same person received the commission. So it wasn't just that the municipalities had to raise funds to give money to poor elderly pensioners, because a lot of municipalities then invested the money that they took out as loans, so instead of spending it, they were carrying out almost stock exchanges with it, but there were other Fidesz entrepreneurs who benefited from it, because they received the commission from issuing the bonds. So nothing has happened from what you've been talking about, but this story is just that you're interfering with the government's activities at the time and making money out of it. It's not new to put it mildly, on the subject. They're doing the same thing about government today. The other, and here I would also like to turn to the draft law, that I have heard two arguments in the interviews and in the debate about why these special economic zones are good. One argument referred to international examples of how good these special economic zones are in China, or there are such special economic zones in the European Union, but these international examples do not sit in this law. After all, they created such special economic zones in China because, by the way, there is a communist state, and in these special economic zones they wanted to create market economy, capitalist relations, so they opened them up, so to speak, to make them such free economic zones. We can think that this example can be interpreted metaphorically for Hungary, but the environment and its purpose were different. [[12.10]] But also in the European Union, as there are such special economic zones in many areas in the European Union, but they are always specifically for territorial development purposes, they serve the purpose of catching up the most deprived regions within territorial development. Now, it is worth stopping here because my fellow chef mentioned in his comment where this new idea came from. I was just telling him that the idea is not new, because in 2012, Matolcsy, Minister of Economic Affairs, suggested that such special economic zones would be needed in Hungary. Then he wanted to turn the most backward regions of Hungary into small tigers, the Ormania, a small region or region of Borsod County, which I think was a fair suggestion, because it was about how to help the most backward regions of the country by declaring it a special economic zone, and then by tax incentives, simplifications of rules, faster administration and infrastructure development, they help that small region and thus make it more attractive, they discriminate positively to investors to go there. That would have been the point, was it not, as is the point of the European examples, that the state would invest extra resources in these small regions or make facilitations; plus resources for infrastructure development, for many other things, and, of course, that infrastructure there, for example, with a European example, will be owned by local authorities. So the state puts money into it, and the municipalities and the people who live there are thus, so to speak, enriched by this project. Now, then, in 2012, the Orbán government did not implement this special economic zone, and now this new proposal has come forward, although it is now just the same name as it used to be, and otherwise it would have served a local and correct purpose. The other argument that my fellow Member Nacsa has said here is that this system is good because it is fair that it will finally make this system fair. Please, that's the one example we've been talking about, and I wanted to bring it up to you, it's specifically a matter of the Paks municipality. Pakson almost over HUF four and a half billion business tax comes from the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The development that takes place there will mean an additional increase in business tax revenue for the municipality. Well, then I ask you that it is fair that only the city of Paks gets this, while this nuclear power plant operation or investment is absolutely clear that it determines not only the lives of the Paks, but also the existence of many surrounding villages and then many other settlements could be helped or supported by this business tax revenue. But one of your ministers was in a hurry to make it clear that, well, Paks is not gonna lose any of these resources, because everything's fine there. Probably because there was a major Fidesz victory in the last municipal elections. It is therefore quite clear that this special economic area does not serve real territorial, territorial and catching-up objectives, nor does this current initiative mean any justice system. So what does it mean? What all my fellow Members have said is that there is a political argument behind this, it is quite clear. They want to regulate the municipalities that you do not control, or even their own, because they may not like one or another of the government's measures and, of course, want to regain control of the money. And that's why I said there's nothing new under the sun, just as they always wanted to gain power, influence, and gain money. The story is the old one, but it always appears in a newer and newer robe, and I think that this is exactly what shows that when Fidesz makes such a decision, there is no need to look for any other argument, no matter how nicely they try to dress it here in Parliament, it's always about power and money, and how they can stuff their friends' pockets with this money. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-20-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member.
u2020-05-20-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We've seen hair-freaking legal assassinations from the ruling party in the last ten years, but this one is really beyond anything. I find it quite frightening that from one day to the next, virtually a feather stroke is used to take away factories, assets, industrial parks from local people, municipalities, communities, as if we were living in state socialism. It's quite terrifying. It's just that the whole country is against the law because it threatens the functioning of the city of Göd. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The whole country is against the law...]] I agree with my colleague Mr Bernadett Wind. In this case, there was also a submission to the Constitutional Court, to which I joined, and I very much hope that this will establish the whole non-law of the law. It is also outrageous, and my fellow Member, Tibor Bana, spoke in quite detail about how this law ignores the principles of local government, and, by the way, this is not only thought of by opposition representatives; so read the opinion of the National Association of otherwise fidesz-led Municipal Self-governments, who likewise protest against it. But I think that this whole law is not just about money and not just about power, and not only about another opposition settlement being bled out now, but also about another red carpet being laid on by a foreign multi-party, which is now in front of South Korean Samsung, facing the will of the local population and bypassing EU directives against support policy. It is again that everything is subject to the interests of multinationals and foreign investors, and I said in a debate the other day that Fidesz is a national, communist in its method, and, by the way, in its economic philosophy, a tasting neoliberal party. This is the present procedure, my honourable members of the Government, the most eloquent proof of that. And this fits perfectly in the line of steps when you tour Saudi Arabia and the Gulf countries by how cheap the Hungarian workforce is and to come here to invest, because Hungarian people can be worked cheaply here. In this spirit, the slave law was passed at the end of the year, in this spirit the state now exits practically from education and health care, leaving the scorched earth behind. Just yesterday, we voted on the looting of the rights of cultural workers, and part of this economic policy or philosophy is that you are able to pump such huge money into economic projects that are not refundable in a hundred years, such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which we also encrypted yesterday for more than ten years. This neoliberal economic philosophy, which does not look at the protection of built heritage, does not look at environmental aspects, does not look at the interests of local communities, looks at only one aspect of how to dissipate everything from the interests of foreign investors, buddy companies and capital. And, by the way, this dozering is often meant literally, for example, in the case of the Közlőhíd, where, right, István Tiborcz, the son-in-law of Viktor Orbán, had to hide the built, protected heritage from the economic interest of his Turkish friend Adnan Polat, in order to build a residential park there. So no matter how I look at this law, any of your readings, one is worse than the other. If I look at the purpose of this bleeding out and punishing opposition voters in opposition settlements, it's a disaster. If I'm looking at the purpose of serving foreign capital, it's even worse. But I would also like to argue with my fellow opposition Members on one thing: this is not just about being picked on by opposition voters. What is happening now affects it in the same way, and this has already been mentioned, someone has mentioned this, including the Fidesz-led settlements. And it's no coincidence that a lot of people are feeling pressured against this law right now, and I'm sure Mr. Secretary of State won't admit it, but I know that the State Secretary's phones are on fire, and the phones are coming to us to tell us what's going to happen to us. Because there is a reason why the Fidesz-led settlements are freaking out, and I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, over the past decade and a half, the municipal authorities have done a great deal to maintain your political power. [[12.20]] In practice, since autumn 2006, the political regency of Fidesz-KDNP has been given by rural settlements and rural municipal authorities. With the current law, these municipalities, these local leaders and the people who live here are being supplied, leaving them virtually completely defenceless to foreign investor interests. I have no doubt that there is a moment of doubt that if a rural, lowland small town, the population living there, is confronted with the interests of a foreign multi-national, whose interests and whose benefits you will consider, when it comes to deciding whether the interests of the local people are being taken into account or the interests of a foreign multi-group. They are protesting for a reason, and they are now outraged for a reason, even if they do not always express themselves, even government leaders. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that they are sailing into very dangerous waters when they hit settlements, rural municipalities. I'm not even saying that they kicked their own political base's knees or heels, but they're kneeling on their necks, and it's gonna take a lot of revenge in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-20-48	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr. Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group, Daniel.
u2020-05-20-49	Mr President, Dear House, It can be seen that while at the very beginning of the debate there were pro-government comments and yellings that dominated the process, the pressure on the phones is now dominant. Nor did the debate that pro-government representatives, politicians, try to communicate with their own camps, not getting out of their own bubble of opinion, and self-criticalally mark it, is sometimes true for the opposition side, for our side too. When you try to approach the issue on the ground of reason, yes, you encounter massive pro-government rejection. My main problem with you isn't what's unfolding here, it's your behavioral patterns that are really scary. It is especially true for older pro-government representatives that, when they were young and I was not in a position to argue about something. They may have tried to break down a system, although I am not one of the believers in the change of regime, but rather as a method change, I can post that period. But it is certain that many young democrats sincerely tried to break the system as they could with their abilities or courage. Thirty years later, however, I see you and this is not speaking to the Secretary of State, and not to some of my fellow Members, who are younger, but obviously to your staff, who give the orders, I see that they have started using the same behavioral patterns against political opponents that have been used against them in their late youth. It's quite frightening that young Democrats have turned into old Bolsheviks, and the scariest thing is that they've only used this base against political opponents, and I don't want to use nasty markers, but it smells like blanket rhetoric. But now they have stepped out of this bed, and they are now using the same thing not only against political opponents, but also against local governments and ordinary Hungarian citizens, the chemical-clean Bolshevik rhetoric that I have fought all my life. The scary thing about all this is that, heated by a false sense of choice, creating ideology for this, you create your own false reality, and you often believe what you're saying, that you're fighting a world conspiracy. And I'm asking you to think about this: aren't you part of the conspiracy, if any, and it couldn't be that the mass of false ideologies along the economic moonyard is being manufactured and fed false realities? Isn't it possible that this behavioral pattern of Fidesz-KDNP is part of a fake news factory? Can it not be that when they plan to do such orbital crap in complete opposition to common sense as this bill, they not only break down Hungarian democracy, but they may also eat up the Hungarian future? I'm just asking you to think this through. What we're talking about here is over 700 billion forints, the fate of this. It is typical that the Government of Hungary, its State Secretarys and its politicians cannot be clear about the fact that around 70 percent of the amount affects these people in the way that concerns the capital and the cities with county rights, yet what the plans are. They say the county-righted cities are exempt from this withdrawal, and we see in the proposal that there is no evidence of this, this exemption is not on the paper. We have two scripts. One of the things I don't want to assume is that your codificators have done a mean job. I respect everyone's work, and I say this without any cynicism, obviously you have well-prepared lawyers and experts who try to do good work. I can only think that this was the intention, although they try to deceive the opposition, the public, and what is most ugly is their own voters, but the obstinacy, the Hungarian reality, is that the paper does not have what you want to talk about. Indeed, the most irritating to me is the national robe: to mention as a national government that is an organic, servile, kneeling government that provides our country with multinational interests in an unprecedented way, and, in an unprecedented way, in the whole region, not only does it not tax the multinationals that produce us record profits, but they do all their wishes and all their lobbyists in a servile manner. I see that this proposal, which lies before us, has become a proposal on a slightly larger scale, which seeks to move larger amounts, due to the laboratory experiment in Göd. Once again, in addition to trying to rape and transcend the will of the electorate, stretching over their heads in terms of decisions to spend certain development resources, the story could still be defended if there were indeed a common concept of territorial development, so that if Mr. State Secretary had stood up in Parliament saying that my fellow Members, it is untenable that four of the poorest regions of the European Union are in Hungary. This is not a party political issue, it is in the interests of all Hungarian citizens to overcome this horror, because there is no raging economy in Europe's poorest regions. When in Hungary these regions have to compete in quotes with Bulgarian and other completely disconnected areas, no one can get an exemplary certificate because it is not possible to imagine such a thing. If the Secretary of State and his associates wanted to change that, I think that all the good-hearted Members, who are important to his nation, would have supported you in this, there would be no debate between us. But that is not what this proposal is about. This proposal, in its present form, concerns the fact that if, say, Dunaújváros successfully invites and arranges to invest in job creation, after which there will be a business tax deposit, it is included in the deck that this payment will be made to the Fidesz-led county municipality, who will decide to make it in Székesfehérvár or its region, or in other cities with Fidesz-led management, a new facade at the hospital, in which, where appropriate, there is no work or useable tool in its quantity and the necessary amount, and a chemical communism in Hungary, where it really decides on development resources, who has good friends, who can effectively and effectively negotiate with Fidesz leaders. Once again, I would like to emphasise that there will surely be a opposition-led municipality whose development resources remain. But they're gonna have to pay protection money for the development resources they've been able to spend on the subject. Let us be honest: the municipalities, for example, God, but any other one could be mentioned, even those with pro-government leadership, are typically spending resources on non-musical cows, as many have done, or are not building a dog's fitness salon, as was the case with European Union money in Nógrád. So these net insanity is not usually carried out by local government leaders and mayors, but these net insanity is included in the system. I would like to clean this system, to purify it, if you will, but this proposal, however, takes a step in the other direction. If the 710 billion forints that appear here as revenue in the system only encounters a 10 or 20 percent loss of effectiveness because of what lies ahead, Hungary will suffer irreparable damage to all the goals that we could jointly put together, whether it is a demographic, family support or a family policy goal, because they are the most important to me. I see that if protection money is to be paid to the opposition authorities to keep their development resources so far, and the administrative costs of 3 percent can be described by county authorities when they are redistributed, we are not necessarily moving towards the construction of local communities. When the majority of municipal authorities are likely to object to pro-government plans, I would take a breath if I were you, and I would at least sit down and talk to those on my side and understand this area. We're not asking for any more, really. Have a seat with your own. I'm telling you that you have the operational mechanism that didn't happen. Either their boss or someone figured it had to be that way, and it would go through the system without any obstacles, and maybe a lot of people wouldn't dare or want to speak out against what would otherwise be in their own interest. I claim that this proposal does not serve the political interests of the Government of Hungary. [[12.30]] The economy will certainly move here, so serious billions will move and go in different directions than before, but I am sure that this proposal will destroy Fidesz-KDNP politically and in a manner that can be measured in votes. It must not be the result of political rationality that lies before us. What hurts me the most is national rhetoric, and at the same time Hungary's vulnerability. I love national rhetoric, I like to listen to it, only if the actions behind it reveal something completely different, then it becomes irritating to use the national indicator by you, while we can really see that the Prime Minister in Saudi Arabia is touring by saying that the labour code is sufficiently flexible a few years ago, since then it has experienced two amendments, a serious one, and that Hungarian wages are, according to him, sufficiently low. Yes, if we look at the standard of living of the Visegrád countries, we find the lowest in Hungary. These are chilling, dramatic data, and the fact is that the inclusion of multi-segment under public burdens could help this situation. It would also help if, during the renegotiation of strategic contracts, the Government of Hungary concluded the intention of at least a slow increase in Hungarian wages; so let it appear somewhere in the system. That's not what's happening. The Government of Hungary has chosen a double path. On the one hand, with whom did you now conclude a strategic agreement, in recent weeks, with whom, Mr. Secretary? A labour agency with a large company that has successfully brought in Ukrainian, Southern Slavic and who knows what other countries are working in order to work on investments in Hungary, probably instead of Hungarians, or at a lower cost than Hungarians or young Hungarians. It was one of the ridges. The other thing is that they did not go as far as determined patterns of behaviour, at least in addition to the intention of raising the Hungarian wages organised, but they allowed the labour shortage to raise wages somewhat, which were still at a very, very low regional level. But there is no doubt that it was not a public-sector wage increase programme in Hungary that raised at least a few percent of the wage level. And they also tricked, after taking the cafeteria elements, to let employers, the people with better feelings, put it in their wages, and then they stood out to hold a press conference that wages had increased, even though you had received the cafeteria you had already received in your salary, and it didn't change much. So they created a pretty amazing fake thing. I would like to call you back from this, to withdraw you, if you like, to the Hungarian reality, because the Hungarian reality shows that such proposals, although economically short-term and medium-term, may benefit you, will destroy you politically, which I am even more interested in, and the most painfully painful future of Hungary certainly will. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-20-50	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Sándor Hadházy of Fidesz.
u2020-05-20-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few hours, we have heard a number of clever thoughts and many mistakes. I believe that good proposals must be considered, and errors must be put in place. I would first like to deal with the local government world, because from 1990 to 20 years I have been in the position to participate actively in this work, not only as a municipal mayor, but also as a county municipal representative, and I have seen the processes that are taking place in this sector. It started very well, you can say, and as time progressed, they were constantly distorted. In particular, the financing necessary for the provision of tasks has been distorted significantly, at the expense of the municipalities, as appropriate. There was a temporary improvement, this is not debatable, between 98 and 2002, but there was an amazing deterioration between 2002 and 2010. This may have started from the fact that the then Prime Minister, Péter Medgyessy, was quite right to pay the wages of civil servants; he only made one mistake, that he did not charge the central budget, but paid it to the local governments, and from then on a process that led the municipalities to collapse by the end of 2010, I can safely say that. It was not possible to avoid the consolidation of municipalities, and quite rightly, the government did this fully during its first cycle, 2010-14, and put the local government on a new footing. The tasks had to be reviewed, the way in which these tasks could be financed, the differences between regions or municipalities in the provision of tasks and the financing of these tasks, as appropriate. This resulted in a radical change in the municipal law and a new foundation for the local government world. Quite rightly, the debt process had to be stopped. Thus, one of the reasons for the debt was that the provision of tasks was not accompanied by adequate normative State aid. The other reason was that, after the accession of the European Union, resources were opened, and, in an understandable way, I do not say that they were trying to achieve as much development as possible in a correct but understandable way, but these developments needed a significant amount of own resources, and these own resources, as they did not have any reserves at the time, had to borrow as their own resources, and this accelerated the debt process. In fact, it was not a particular problem if these improvements led to savings in the costs of maintenance or resulted in an increase in revenues, but rather to the type of development that did not result in such additional revenue, but rather to the expenditure side. Institutions have been established, established, activities carried out by municipalities that were not previously undertaken. There was, of course, a third basket: this could have been a rational, incompetent farming for many municipalities. According to the government's proposal, these factors have been taken out, these risk elements have been taken out, and therefore the funding of municipalities has been put on a new footing. This is very important, because, in recent years, the EU aid scheme and the domestic aid scheme, which has been operating with increasing resources, have required less and less self-employment by local governments, quite rightly, and therefore there has not been a significant level of indebtedness. Where there was an increase in loans, it was under government control and the government had to examine all the improvements that the municipalities wanted to make. The proposal, which lies before us now, seeks to bring justice, as there are some types of local authorities or those in a situation that have been able to make significant progress over the past period, either through risk taking, debt accumulation or through their lucky talents, and they have made progress compared to other municipalities, and this has also resulted in a significant increase in their own revenues, in particular their local tax revenues, or in their tourism tax revenues, which have increased, and they have therefore essentially been able to stand on their own feet. I believe that regional cooperation between municipalities should be strengthened in line with previous practice. [[12.40]] After all, it is obvious that there are tasks that can be performed by a larger settlement, a city, and there are tasks that small settlements can do with comfort. However, this amazing difference between the financial situation has ultimately led workers to have to take a bus in the morning, get on a train, get in a car and go to the city, to settlements where there are any job opportunities at all. This is causing a very serious tension in the agglomeration here in Pest County. Here, some of my fellow Members have said about the extent to which Budapest must participate in the financing of local transport, and what a burden that is, in fact, due to the fact that very many of the agglomerations, which are actually true, are involved. However, they are not happy to do so, but this is a burden for them, because it takes them a lot of time and costs. At the same time, the fruits of their work come down in Budapest, where the capital is enriched, where cities with major county rights and major economic operators are enriched. It is therefore necessary in some way to strive for the establishment of enterprises around and around cities that can keep workers locally. In my view, this is a very important instrument, because let us face it, whether the capital city or Debrecen or Győr itself alone can not represent a significant force among the world's economic operators, there is a need for state involvement, there is a need for the government to increase the amount of capital flowing into Hungary with an appropriate institutional system, to improve cooperation, and there is no doubt about the significant role of the government in this respect. That is why it is important to be able to look at these issues from time to time. On behalf of several speakers during the debate, wages are at a very low level in Hungary. I can say that there has been considerable progress in this area over the past ten years. Obviously, you always set new goals, but I would like to say that there was a three-way agreement between employees, employers and the government, which determined the rate of wage growth for several years in advance. This pace has been above and below, so in this respect I can say that we would rather catch up with the European Union's average than be left behind. We have a number of things to do, but I think that every small step and the step taken by this bill will also serve our progress. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-52	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László László Keresztes, Head of the Group.
u2020-05-20-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and welcome to Mr President. Dear Parliament, I see that we have to give up on the fact that you are taking part in this debate, Mr Secretary of State, and it is very strange, and it is not customary for Congressman Nacsa to intervene. I was a little surprised, by the way, that Congressman Hadházy had spoken to him. You can say that you have agreed to a general political discussion involving local governments, in which I agree in many respects, but it does not have much to do with this bill. I would also add that these problems, which you have been talking about, will not in any way be addressed by this bill, and will even generate counterproductive effects, and will do much more harm to the local government and the local authorities than to use them. The debate on what this proposal is about, and the fact that it is true, as set out in the explanatory statement of the bill, and what the Secretary of State and Congressman Nacsa said is true, was concluded today by Minister Süli. We have heard several speeches today, and he has made it clear what it is about. In particular, political decisions are taken here, based on which investment will be a classified investment of this kind, which will be taken from the local government and which will not. Mr.Sándor Hadházy also said that justice must be done, that there are such disproportions, that there are settlements in a particularly good situation. Well, what example could be better than Paks' situation? Let's see, though, Tolna County, what poverty the whole region is suffering from, and compared to Paks, it's not the city, let alone the county, but the entire region's economy. Thus, in particular, Paks distorts the economic performance of the entire South-Transdanubian region in a positive direction with the fact that it is essentially a falling region. We know that since the accession of the European Union, it has been among the 20 poorest regions of the Union in South Transdanubia. So if an example could be given, or if the first example could be given, which is the case, which is the investment that is fundamentally unfair in this respect, and which calls for a solution in terms of disproportion, then it is Paks. You have said here, Mr President, I am sorry, my fellow Member, that you have denied your own minister that this is not the case, that there are no obstacles, that you have no reason to take this huge investment away from a city of 20,000. So it failed. In this regard, I ask Mr. Secretary of State this question: if Minister Süli has not yet been adopted, this law has said that Paks II investment will not be taken away from Paks, so the Minister knows exactly, then you obviously know in which case you wish to take such action, or in which cases such action is planned, we may have a list of the ones I would like to put your hands on, or hand it over to the county municipality, and in which case we do not. Obviously, these political decisions were already taken at the time, together with thanking Minister Süli for at least clarifying this situation, and then it is not for the opposition representatives to say more than once that this bill is a complete lie, but has been put in order once and for all. With regard to municipal operations, I must respond to Mr Hadházy's thoughts on the way in which the funding of municipalities has been put in order and resolved. I don't think we should talk about small settlements. I'm a Pécsi, but I'm very fond of small settlements, I've done a lot of work as a civilian to develop small settlements, and we've seen that in the last ten years, there's been virtually an empty space for small settlements, they've taken away their space of manoeuvre, they've barely got a chance to make their own future better. This is why it would be important to have real resources behind the program, and to be able to help in the difficult situation of small settlements. But in a similarly hopeless situation, the big cities are now in the same position. I am Pécsi, and the largest city in Transdanubia is in a position where it is now unable to perform its most important mandatory tasks independently, regardless of whether it has opposition or pro-government leadership. Between 2009 and 2019 he was a pro-government, fidesz leader of the city of Pécs, and several times the city was bankrupt, and the only way he could escape was to get a state-wide temporary lifeline. They couldn't do anything, they couldn't solve these problems in ten years. Here, by the way... I don't know, here, Mr. Szakács, I have a bit of an argument with him too, I basically agreed with his speech, but let us be critical here in the case of 2010 and in the case of Pécs, with the periods before 2009. I think that the socialist-liberal city leadership that led Pécs failed the election in 2009, there was an interim election on a very sad case, nothing good can be said. So, specifically, it was the net destruction that the MSZP-SZDSZ coalition did in Pécs. This was due to the fact that the city of Pécs accumulated the largest debt pool among county-righted cities, 44 billion had to be taken from Pécs' debt, which, on the one hand, was obviously due to problems that were not adequate to finance the city, so it did not receive the funds for important tasks and investments that were really essential, but on the other hand, it was clear that it was the fault of the then Balliberal City Administration. Only then this debt transfer did not cover the debt existing in municipal companies. So Pécs, by the way, carried on the 14 billion-dollar debt in 2009, which remained from the socialist period, and together with it, the Pécs city administration managed to raise it to HUF 22 billion. So it is not true, by the way, what Congressman Nacsa has said that savings have been wasted in the last six months. No, the city of Pécs was taken over by the new city administration in a vulnerable situation with a debt of 22 billion dollars, and the fact that, for example, the deadline for payment for such a lifeline has expired, should pay back the city a billion-dollar item, and obviously the government is no longer willing to discuss it. [[12.50]] Similarly, in connection with the financing of cultural institutions, a few years ago, the Ministry made an offer to the Fidesz city administration to partially finance these important institutions. Well, well, after a change in the structure of the Pécs city administration, he refuses to discuss these earlier commitments in substance. So we can say that the largest city in Transdanubia cannot finance its own mandatory tasks, which, I say, is the faults of previous inadequate city management, Fidesz and MSZP management, but behind it is the inadequacy of the system, which, Congressman Sándor Hadházy, has not become better or even worse in the next period. However, I would also like to say to my fellow opposition Members here that self-criticism must obviously be practiced by everyone, and, for example, in the case of Pécs, I very much hope that Member Szakács will also intervene in the fact that cities and Pécs in such a difficult situation should also explicitly immediately get rid of all political positions, political positions, various Councilmen's salaries on political grounds. It is quite clear that if the city is already in such a difficult situation, then it is clearly not the city's management that has been working for the past six months that is primarily responsible, but it is necessary to set an example, and these payments must be stopped and these political positions must be dealt with. I would say, in closing, towards the end of the debate, Mr Secretary of State and fellow members of the Government, that it could be quite clear that this proposal is not supported by any professional organisation. Yes, it is supported by the County Council of Local Governments, it is a completely fidesz alliance, but it is not supported by meaningful alliances, thus bringing together local governments. I think and I would also like to refer back to Mr Bencsik, because I have repeatedly referred to this debate because it is not the point that the government is attacking opposition or pro-government cities, this attitude will damage the people living there regardless of their political views, just like yesterday's outrageous decision to vote for HUF 1000 billion for the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which is, indeed, again, the damage to all Hungarians regardless of party standing. You have sacrificed 125,000 jobs on the altar of Chinese great authority. I therefore stress once again that you will stop talking about national governance. There is not much to discuss about this bill, I think you should withdraw it, I suggest. Do not look at the political aspects, listen to the opinions of professional organisations and local government representatives: withdraw this proposal. However, I am very confident that if they do not do so, then the Constitutional Court will have to remove this bill, and I trust that the local government associations will now stand very firmly in order to protect municipal rights and operational possibilities, and that will be sufficient political resistance to you to withdraw from this. And then I will be curious that if, let us say, the Constitutional Court or the political pressure that is emerging overwhelms this shameful proposal, then they will be open to debate whether the existing disproportionateness here and there, and the disproportionateities in many places, can be dealt with with by a consensus proposal that really seeks to resolve them. I can promise you that if such an intention comes before the Parliament, we will participate in it in a constructive way that it is indeed a solution that the serious investments here and there can remedy the otherwise significant territorial differences and differences in development in the interests of all Hungarians. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-54	Thank you, Congressman, Mr. Group Leader. I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát in two minutes.
u2020-05-20-55	Mr President, Dear House, I have no reason to question the good intentions of my fellow Member of the Government who has just spoken, but I would like to refer you back to the very different world of false realities that I have spoken about, that you too are living in your own false reality, and that many times everyone is trying to argue from their own bubble of opinion. This hasn't been about convincing the other person for a long time. After all, you mentioned, quite rightly, that the process of indebtedness of the municipalities had to be stopped. I totally agree with that. In fact, by 2010, there was a situation where there were plenty of government-owned self-governments, but there must also be opposition. I recall a consolidation of 1,300 billion. The problem is that if someone is looking at the MNB's study in this direction, not opposition claims, not pro-government research institutions, but the MNB's, they find exactly that 1268 billion loans have been taken out by the municipalities. So you have consolidated 1,300 billion, and since then, 1268 billion has been taken up as a loan by the same municipalities. I understand the intention, and believe me, my fellow Member, I agree with him with good intentions, that was the case in 2010, but since then it has been a decade, which, even if we are benign and we count the effects of inflation in the system, we can still say that it has brought an enormous amount of debt. I think the distribution of this is as unhealthy as in the pre-2010 era. It was also very unhealthy, but we cannot say that we would have overcome these problems at systemic level. That is why I am afraid of this proposal, because it puts additional municipalities in a difficult situation. I fear that some opposition-led municipalities, which lose resources, will not only not be obliged, but will not be able to carry out binding tasks, if necessary. If they can, they'll take out a loan somewhere. Even worse, they will not be entitled to do so and mandatory tasks may be put at risk. That's what we should be avoiding together. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-05-20-56	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc in two minutes.
u2020-05-20-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Let's get one thing straight. These funds will not be taken away, but will remain in place and will be distributed more targeted, fairer and more proportionately to the municipalities concerned who are involved in the investment. You are always talking about taking, there is no taking, and it will not go entirely to other purposes, and the investment in Dunaújváros will not go to Székesfehérvár. It will continue to serve the lives of the people living in the region. In every speech, Mr Crusade Leader paints a darker picture of Hungary as we move forward in the number of hours. Now he said that not only small settlements, even big cities, are in a tragic situation. How is it possible, Mr. Group leader, that during 2019 13 400 billion HUF worth of development was made in Hungary? Last year we were second in the investment rate across the European Union. In the last ten years, improvements have increased by 77 percent. These investments have all come to settlements, cities and villages, and they are obviously staying there. It is not my duty to protect the Deputy Prime Minister, but it is you who regularly attack him and all of us; if you knew the Government's statute and structure, you would know that these are the government's proposals; the Prime Minister's Office coordinates and submits it on the basis of a legislative programme, and the Deputy Prime Minister, as the Deputy Prime Minister's general deputy, signs the submission letter, only you always attack Zsolt Semjén in person. Once again, you don't need my protection, just to make sure you know the rules, and then you know exactly what you're talking about. I think what Daniel Z. Carpathian said about the debt of the settlements, I think it is a completely different structural debt or we are talking about it now. Because it is not the continuous operating holes that have been filled and sold out with bonds or real estate sales, as it was during the socialist period, but the part of these investments, the part of the tenders, from which the settlement is developing, is realized. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-58	Thank you, Congressman. We now return to the normal speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga.
u2020-05-20-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I promise I will be very brief, because I can see that Mr Secretary of State would go on, which I am not surprised at at all, because since Minister Süli's briefing, we know that this has been decided for a long time. At the ministerial press conference, not only the horse's foot hung out, but also a full stud. Basically, it has not only been decided, but it has already been distributed to all pro-government stakeholders in this matter. The pro-governments can sit back, and the whip of the head of the opposition authorities is there. Obviously, there is much left to talk about in this matter, perhaps the consequences of everything. Several Members have already spoken of this in a touching way, but let us see clearly what this is all about. Indeed, Hungary signed the European Municipal Charter in 1997 and it appears in the Charter in black and white, and I would like to say once again that we have signed this, that it is only by referendum that it is possible to modify the municipal boundaries. Now, that's not what's happening here. There is also a 2011 municipal law, which also states that a local referendum is the only way to transfer territory between municipal authorities. In fact, you could say that you've done elegantly over these two things, but it's not nearly elegant what's happening here. [[13.00]] However, it is likely that this will result in a great deal of EU procedures. So when we talk about what the Constitutional Court will say about this, I must add that we are most likely to know the answer of the Constitutional Court, this story will not stop here. So it is likely that because of you, Hungary may once again be on the bench of shame, simply because it simply does not exist for you tomorrow. They're pretending to end the world here, and they're trying to get everything right now, but it's not gonna work. I'm afraid this story is about to end. If I live with a football like that because everyone knows it very well on the other side of the horseshoe, then I have to say that every game is canceled sooner or later, even if it was an extension. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-60	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu.
u2020-05-20-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill, which is before us, I believe as part of that series, was already here at lex IX. district, so Ferencváros, there was the lex Castle District, District I, and Zugló, on the grounds of City Park, now we are discussing the law of God, the law of God lex, where the mayor did not behave that way, it wasn't the color, then we will make a law on it. But if we're gonna make a law, let's get one to touch all 3173 municipalities here in Hungary, just like that, from the hips, without any preparation. I think that's what we're witnessing. I see you're leaving Congressman Hadházy, whom we've known for a long time. And we were colleagues, and we were on a committee, and we were on the municipal committee. At the time, the local government had the rank, at least for about 20 years, that the local government committee was responsible for this 3173 municipality in this country, where their affairs could be discussed by an independent committee. Now we need to look into which committee the municipal affairs are being discussed. Essentially, the fate of the municipalities, in the sense that they are local government, is lost in this House. That's why we have a three-hour or four-hour meeting here, I don't know how long it's gonna end, because we can finally talk about settlements in connection with a law, even if it's not possible to agree with this law, and it's against government and everything. I only mentioned Mr Hadházy's name because you mentioned that the situation of the municipalities had improved since the period.98-2002, but especially since 2010. I would like to mention, and this is the most important thing, what the municipalities have received since 2010 since their situation changed so much and improved. In the past, the resident portion of personal income tax belonged to the municipalities. The mistake you mentioned is that they're coming to work, and they're bringing money to Pest, because the personal income tax on the employees who came in was there, at his place of residence, and it was the government's income. This was taken from the settlements, the personal income tax of many commuters was taken. That's a lot of billion forints, I don't want to bluff, in my case, I was mayor, I know how much money is taken from us, the resident personal income tax. The other one that was taken from the settlements is the car tax. This was first granted to us by a hundred percent, and the law which allowed the car tax to do so, who also said why it belonged to the settlements, and then from 2010 they first took 60 percent, and now they took 40 percent of it, so the entrance who, commuting in the traffic on the M3 and on the motorways was also entitled to the car tax. They took away the car tax from the settlement. And if I take it that, say, there was an agglomeration law in Budapest and the agglomeration, after 2010, in this cycle we are in, Parliament abolished the same regional development law, the Balaton Act. But the small regional partnerships have also basically ceased. These were all municipal law, and they were all gone. I do not want to say that many people here have mentioned this threatening situation of the trade tax, and the trade tax itself is affected by this bill here. As a Budapester, I think I will allow myself to think about the fact that Budapest will not have such a special economic zone in Budapest. It will not be because if any of the outer districts, including the inner district, were to be designated as a special economic zone, that mayor should be named Gergely Karácsony, since it is a county according to the law, and it was the same in the previous municipal law. They're not gonna give you any money to redistribute to one of the districts, and they have a lot of them. So I could get it back, if I had a zone like this, I'd get it back, because I have a majority. So it won't be like this in Budapest. So I might as well take it easy. And if I take it there is, it's because of the next one. The person who's levying the business tax, right, in this case the tax authority, the NAV, seems or I don't know who the tax authority is, but let's say the NAV is taking it in. This will be a very special task for the NAV. So far, the municipalities have had an apparatus, a competent specialist who collects taxes, and the law says that the NAV refers daily. The person who wrote this does not know that this tax is not paid daily, but once a year, also in September. We have also just received from this government as a presentation that the business tax we received twice before is only once, and this is just the long stage where the local governments will bleed out in the register, because they will only receive money in September. So there's no money coming to the municipalities, we're at that stage. This will cause an incredibly difficult liquidity problem. Many liquid loans must be taken up by the municipalities in order to be able to complete this marketing year until September. As of September, it may be that they plan to pay this trade tax once a year, where it is significant, and there are municipalities with greater tax power, about 176 where they can switch. But where there's only a small business tax, you can wait a year to get the business tax... Obviously, this one-year slip was meant to benefit businesses, especially those who paid taxes, because of two references a year. If I consider that the Gödi lex, i.e. on the basis of the Gödi example, is introduced, then what about telling this company that I'm releasing your construction tax, I'm releasing your land tax, I'm reducing your business tax, because even when collecting the business tax, it's also possible for the municipality to give a discount, it's going to be able to give you discounts and discounts. It will be untraceable that at all in the special zone that will operate within our own administration, it will pay construction taxes and land taxes at all within that administration, because each of them has a function of what to pay for and what to use it for. This will become unfollowable in connection with this law. [[13.10]] I would also like to comment on the debt, because we get this 1300 billion every day, although Dániel Z. Karpat shot this joke. But compared to that 1368 billion, I believe that as much is consolidated now, from 2010 onwards, the same situation has been restored, about as much credit as it has been consolidated. So, Congressman Hadházy, if you say that from then on it has become a better situation, it is, unfortunately, that it is necessary to re-credit. In the case of Budapest, the capital can operate with loans, take out loans, not for development or operation, because we cannot operate public transport in any other way. I'm guessing there might be one in the districts. In my constituency, the government contributes to development credit, if you can justify it well. What was the problem before? It was that he didn't need a government license, simply the bank and the municipality discussed it with each other, or an agent came along. What has been said here is a concrete and sad fact that the sum of 194 municipalities brought together a certain 1360 billion, not 3173, only so many municipalities, they worked on different things. In some cases, there was a debt of HUF 11 million per population for each resident, including the infant, so they have gone so far and had foreign currency loans. That's exactly the settlement, right now I don't want to name the colleagues here, they had currency loans, and they had 152.3 Swiss foreign exchange loans, and they exploded in a flash, and they went up to 70, 80, then 200 percent, 250 percent. But this currency loan was taken by an agent, and he told you to pick it up, that's what's gonna happen. But we don't need any trouble. Put it in the bank. You're gonna take $1 billion. It's got 100 million in interest, because it's gonna have such a good interest rate, you're gonna be very good at it. So they set him up. I admit that it took expertise, and perhaps even a little bit of thinking about corruption, that all of this could be done. But I think it should be known that only 194 municipalities, 89 percent of the 1368 billion of which were involved. So when we say this to the municipalities that we consolidated them because they were mismanaged, we have to think about this narrow circle, not the entire Hungarian self-government, that it was inoperative. It is true that consolidation went so unthinking that some people had 200,000 forints in some way, they also consolidated the 200 thousand forints, the secretary's salary was about this much of the debt, and it was also consolidated. This is also included in the State Audit Office's report, so I take these data from there, not from the belly. Overall, I think that this bill, which has been brought before us so suddenly by the government, out of anger, I think, and the example of the Gödi will excite this anger, would be very good if we did not make it a practice. It's a cross-financing, by the way, I think. It is taken away from the more solvent settlements, say, in the form of such a special economic zone, and I assume that, let's say, they collect this tax with honor and thus finance the smaller settlements, this is already working, it has been tested, it is called a solidarity tax. It is necessary to pay the municipalities with greater tax power so that the KLIK can operate the nationalised structures taken from us. He can run it, say, my constituency pays 600 million forints per year, which is exactly what we ran the schools for before they took it away from us. So on this basis, cross-subsidisation is carried out with this particular solidarity tax. If this is one of those solidarity taxes, then I think it could be a lot simpler. It is too complicated to have tax laws and tax regulations in the county, to carry out tax collection, to have incredible bureaucracy if it actually expands and is introduced. I do not think it is reasonable, I would reject its idea, and I believe that there is also a Court of Auditors here, and there is also the Hungarian Treasury, and they cannot be pleased with this ad hoc task that must be carried out. The Democratic Coalition cannot support this law. Thank you very much. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2020-05-20-62	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kálló in two minutes.
u2020-05-20-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to my colleague Mr Lőrinc Nacsa in two minutes. Honestly, I've been looking forward to this moment for a long time. [[Defiance from the opposition. Nacsa Lőrinc: I'm here more!]] You said it wasn't a take-off, but at the beginning of the debate, you said it was a take-off, because in six months, opposition-led cities were doing so badly. Let's make a decision. Taking it in the morning, not taking it in the afternoon. I hope you'll have the law revoked by tonight, because they're gonna change everything. I'm happy for you. So let's get this straight. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The other thing. What I'm asking is that I understand that there's always a rumble here, it always goes to who is Agent Soros, who is he, who is he. We're not over a very harsh virus yet, and I'd like to ask the opposition mayors a little bit more respect by taking away the car tax, also exempt from tourist tax. And you're accusing them of misfarming? They fight, they fight, they try to survive. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] A little more respect. And the other thing is, let us also clarify the status of county-righted cities in this debate. You say that this will not apply to cities with county rights. But what did you say? The money of Dunaújváros will not be used to stone Székesfehérvár. That is not what should have been said, but that my dear fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, cities with county rights are not included. So again, they're in conflict. Let me tell you one last thing. Business tax is not for the good of the two eyes of a local government. It goes because it provides the area, the infrastructure, the utilities. Don't take these away from the municipalities, because then they'll have an unplanned budget. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-20-64	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér.
u2020-05-20-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Here, it's nice to watch the DK and Jobbik coalition on this law. [[Gergely Kálló: Seriously?]] And so I'd be happy to talk to both of them. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You face common sense!]] One: former mayor Hajdu, who should know the world a little better than that, what the municipal world means. What he did here was to try to compare municipal funding before 2010 to today's situation, to relativity the situation at that time, and to present the situation worse, it is simply not true. Congressman, talk to local government leaders, and not just the opposition, who now fear for their money and see devils everywhere, talk about when they had reserves, when they were able to improve, before 2010, at your time, or now. You'll get some pretty interesting answers. In addition, I said in my previous speech that an apology would not be a problem. I can see DK is the most demanding of this law. You're the one who should be doing it. Sorry about the reruns. Congressman Kálló, we have received 50 percent of the budget of 10 billionaires without hospitals from the Somogy County Council from the state. Is there anything like that here today? Fifty percent. Can you imagine how it was supposed to work during the Gyurcsány government when there were 10 billion expenditures from the social sector to education for the county government? Did the Gyurcsány government give you $5 billion? And you're talking about how we were deliberately indebted to anything at the time? We had maintenance responsibilities then, unlike today in the capital, as it seems. I'm sorry that Bernadett Wind isn't here, but he said a little bit of a blur, because it was his speech that made the picture of what was going on in your head. He said that this law was election fraud, that is, he believes that the sources that are not coming to certain opposition authorities now, from which, I think, he wanted to make a campaign, because I cannot interpret this sentence any other way. So apologies and preparation would be very important. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[13.20]]
u2020-05-20-66	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to tell Mr Zoltán Balczó that if he wishes to speak to him, he can do so in a normal time frame, because he no longer has the opportunity to make a two-minute comment, because he has already had a better representative. But he also pressed the button. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-20-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's not gonna be two minutes, it's gonna be 30 seconds. I would like to ask Mr Hajdu whether the background of the display is red and white and green. Please give me an answer. I think it's red and white green. And if you say so, Congressman Gelencsér says that our two parties are in a coalition. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-20-68	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat indicates that he did. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-20-69	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Of course, I do not wish to abuse the normal time frame, let alone 15 minutes, but I may not need two. Quite simply, the pro-government arrogance which, along with the withdrawal of the right to decide on resources for opposition-led cities, argues that opposition leaders want to use it for campaigning. Well, sober up, fellow Members. Little humility. What you are talking about is the amount that Hungarians can spend on the salaries and wages of people working in local governments. From this, local authorities are implementing improvements locally, better case scenario, in the case of luckier cases. But to explain this with campaign goals is the impression of a sick, paranoid way of thinking. You are saying that what is not yours, because the opposition, if any, has won an election and control there, is a hunting ground to be acquired, must be withdrawn, because they are certain that they want to do something evil, campaign against you, if any, even though the Philosopher's Stone seems to be in your possession. A false sense of choice is a terrible quality, and I have fought it all my life, and in fact no matter what kind of government color we can talk about, I have always encountered it; yesterday I said that the least perhaps in the period 1998-2002. Of course, it wasn't the norm either, but it may have approached him in certain elements. But it's really scary to see, from the perspective of 30 years, whatever color there is on the steering wheel, this sick behavior pattern and the impression of it coming back and back. That is why I ask you not to see campaign money in this when we are discussing local government resources, because this is the amount that Hungarian workers, working people, can spend on salaries, road renovations, and then could be used for job-creating investments. I do not expect them to show more respect to opposition representatives, because I have not believed in children's tales for a long time, but I do expect that the voters behind us will receive this respect, as well as those working in the municipalities. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-20-70	Thank you, Congressman. I'm gonna ask you again if someone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, if you would like to comment. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Yes.]] Of course I do. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-20-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We've been through a four-and-a-half-hour debate or conversation, where after we've told you what the purpose of the bill is, what the provisions of the bill are, we've listened to a few of us look around, there's a few of us in the room who have been here from the beginning and I've listened to a lot of things, a lot of personalities, a lot of political mud throwing and a lot of pointless, unnecessary lurking. I don't want to use the word stronger and clearer on purpose, because I don't want to provoke you, I just want to record it. I think it wasn't entirely in vain. It was not entirely in vain, because there was a moment that greatly strengthened me. This moment was when Ferenc Gyurcsány, former Prime Minister, came in and listened to himself and went out in 15 minutes to talk to us about this thing, everything, it was actually very difficult to summarize what he was talking about, but I felt the same way when he was Prime Minister of Hungary and I was a university student. At the time, I saw on television that I heard arguments every day, that new reform measures were introduced every day, that they used the most varied rhetorical images and expressions every day about how good it would be for our country and how good it would be now, compared to that, when I wanted to live with my constitutional right of assembly with my friends, we were beaten. And I've seen that nothing in this country doesn't happen the way it is on television, but the opposite happens, and we're heading for collapse. Well, this Ferenc Gyurcsány came in today, said his speech on this bill, then went out, and received a beat-up iron applause, received congratulations, subsidies, slapping of the opposition representatives. So it seems quite clear that what Ferenc Gyurcsány represents in this case, what he said about the municipalities, and obviously his government's activities in relation to the municipalities are an alternative to you. I'm sorry to start with a general political comment, but I'm sorry, I listened to the general political comments for four hours, so I'd like to respond a little bit. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you respond in the debate?]] So it seems that with the approval, support and consent of the entire political side, the nutmeg washing or writing of reality has been carried out, which we have been constantly listening to from the DK Members here. And when someone tries to step out of this choir to the right or to the left, for example, from the right hand side, then what happened this morning is that the party has to apologize publicly, because the lead speaker of that bill in the National Security Service forgot that the music, the narrative, is that there is a fidesz dictatorship, that we are restricting freedom, and on a bill, he once accidentally said, "Yeah, it's totally professional." [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you dare say so in the debate? I could have responded to it.]] After that, you had to stand up and apologize publicly for being called out of the narrative and for breaking up the unit. We also saw during the morning talks that everyone here, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who beat the Hungarians, who collapsed the country, and who made the bed for the narrative of the local government's gravedigger, strengthened his narrative. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You're not normal!]] He took it, took it, and took it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't reproach me because you didn't dare to stand up, you were a coward.]] Mr Z. Kárpát, I am sorry, you can start every second speech by saying that you are a representative of constructive policy debates, that can be said only when, in the subsequent speech, you attack pro-government representatives, members of government, and many other institutional leaders and personalities in person and politically, it becomes discredited. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I have never attacked you in your person!]] It won't work if we say one minute that we're constructive, and the next thing you know, we're going to say political tops, which should be read out of the DK sheet music, and if you can't read it, you're going to have to stand up and apologize publicly. These two things won't work together. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Tell me that you don't believe it yourself, but you think it sounds good.]] I wanted to make a few comments on the operation of the municipal system in general. The period 2002-2010 has two tragedies. One of his tragedies is that the government was a coward, the government was powerless, so he did what he did to shift the tasks into the municipal sector, he gave them the tasks, and he took the funding away from the municipal sector. There's no other way to say this. I am very pleased that you think the SAO is okay now, because SAO statements can be referred to in certain cases, in some cases they cannot, because they are also building the Fidesz dictatorship. As I understand it, in the debate of this bill, the SAO is a good boy in your narrative. [[13.30]] The SAO may have made certain findings regarding the operation of the system, but the story is, after all, simplistically, that the task was given, the funding was taken away, and therefore the municipalities had to turn the loans into operation, as well as the Fidesz municipalities and opposition authorities. It is quite clear that everyone was trapped in this debt trap. What was the country's true tragedy, because it could have been dealt with in itself, could have been treated as being okay, but then the state, the central budget, is in good shape, and the country's economic performance is okay, because then it's just a structural problem of how we can move resources from one hat to another, but it wasn't about that, but that the central government and the central budget collapsed. So it wasn't just that they pushed the responsibility and took the money, but that the state that took the money collapsed after that. And that's how we got around 13 percent unemployment, so we lost our employees, so we pulled out of key sectors, such as health care, and that's how the debt ratio got out and rose to 80 percent. Then, when the municipal system had to start in 2010, it was not only about rethinking the division of tasks and resources between the two hats, but also about the need to fix the big state hat, the big whole, so there was economic growth, debt reduction, tax reductions, jobs, real wage increases. In the last ten years, this government has probably not done everything perfectly, but it has done this task, and otherwise it has put the municipal system in order, taking over the debts. There are debts now, but they are not used to finance operations, they are used to finance development. In the meantime, I had time to look up the stats for these four and a half hours, and my colleagues put it here for me. If we look at the resources allocated to the municipalities between 2010 and 2020, we see that, in addition to the fact that some of the tasks, the financing of which was the most problematic for the municipalities, were taken over by the State, and the amount of State aid is still 80 per cent of the 2010 funding, and if we look at the other revenues of the municipalities, which can also be said to be linked to the operation of the State and the good performance of the economy, and not because the municipalities would have imposed more taxes, we see that we were at 540 billion in 2010, and we are talking about 1040 billion this year, so that the revenue available to the municipalities was doubled, so that the state aid remained at 80 per cent, and the majority of the unfunded tasks were taken on by the State. So, I'm sorry to ask you this, but because... So, I wish that everyone should be punished at home or anywhere else, as the civilian government has punished the municipalities, because it was not a punishment, it was a help, it created a normal, healthy, manageable financing structure on the side of the municipality and on the side of the state, and behind it is still the economic capacity of the Hungarian people, the economic growth and the potential from which we can then finance job creations and the coronal virus epidemic, unfortunately, at the moment, the costs associated with the control of the coronal virus epidemic. And to maintain this favourable situation and this equilibrium, we would like to ask for your support in this bill, because it is related to this. If we were to go back to the bill in particular [[Car Cake Olivio:]] I am sorry, I may have been long, but I have listened for four hours to the comments indirectly related to the bill, so I would like to ask the Member for a very little patience, and it is quite clear, as Minister Gulyás said, that our intention is that the capital and county-righted cities are not covered by this bill. We are told, and I think they are right, that this is clear from the bill, because cities with county rights perform completely different tasks, because they carry out tasks throughout the county, otherwise they have a special status, so it is quite clear from the bill that they are not covered. But we are open to the intention to amend, and we will make this even clearer. However, as regards the fact that from one area to the other, what Mr Z. Kárpát said here, that Dunaújváros revenues are going to Székesfehérvár, it is quite clear that there is no such intention in any way, there is no such idea in the proposal, so it is simply not true. With regard to the negotiations: I report that there have been discussions in which all professional organisations have taken their positions, as you know in advance. I have also consulted the president of the National Association of Municipal Governments, the President of the Association of Local Governments of the County, two serious representative associations, the two largest such associations of local governments, and it may surprise you, I am not surprised: the leader of one alliance was more supportive, and the leader of the other was rather not supportive; but the obligation to negotiate means that we listen to everyone, we are integrating everyone's opinions. It is clear that this proposal strengthens the municipalities of the county, i.e. one of the local government's legs, and the other does not strengthen the leg of the local government, so one leg of the local government will obviously support it, and the other leg of the local government will not support it. But if you are already clearly planning to base your claims on the opinion of these municipal associations in the next period, then I would ask you to talk to them in detail, because the bill is full of points that they still support, and not just the county people, but also the ordinary settlements, not the County Municipality Association, but also the leaders of the National Association of Municipal Governments. For example, the proposal not to have a limit of HUF 100 billion, because there is another statistic here is not going to be a waste of time, because, thank God, there is quite a lot of investment in Hungary, but unfortunately there is not enough, and they said so, and the proposal was made that if we keep this ceiling, it will not actually be suitable for the purpose of achieving the goal that this is intended to achieve, because the investment amount is too high and they themselves supported the reduction of the investment amount. So I suggest that you talk to these local leaders, not just use their opinions, and get to know the problem that you all clearly confirmed, because the president of the National Association of Municipal Local Governments and the head of the other local government associations, as well, will tell you, no matter what political preference they have, that it is a big debt and problem of thirty years after the change of regime, that we have not been able to solve this situation fairly, that there are investments that can be linked to the place, the location, to a single settlement, their volume, their impact and their environmental burden, and their capacity to use infrastructure, but that are not fair. It is quite simply not acceptable in this situation that the neighbouring settlement is entrusted to the goodwill of the locality, the mayor's willingness to cooperate or his own ability to assert interest, i.e. ad hoc factors. This system is suitable for ensuring that if all of the conditions set out in the bill are met, i.e. the total cost requirement of HUF 5 billion, the economic impact on a significant part of the county's territory, that the investment is used to create jobs or to avoid job losses, and that the government makes such a priority economic zone a priority for the national economy, and that the allocation of resources can be made more proportionate. This does not mean that the source will disappear from that settlement, but that the source will not only be used directly in that settlement, but also in the neighbouring settlement and neighbouring settlements. [[13.40]] So the same source will be used in the same place; neither will it be the case for the Göds that they will receive the investment from now on and otherwise will they not receive any development resources. Why, where do you think you're going...? So I understand that there is no trust between the government side and the opposition side, and we can discuss this in political theory, and I'm happy to talk about it, but how can I put it? at least here, within the walls of Parliament, we should debate this issue responsibly within the framework of normality and rationality. So those resources will stay in those settlements. And that is just one of the political theorems, Congressman Kocsis-Cake is one of the few who listened to the entire debate with me, but he said in his speech, if I understand it correctly, I did not understand it, but starting the legitimacy of the county authorities, that they are listed representatives, and that their mandate is worth less than those of the individual district or directly elected representatives. First of all, I think that you, Congressman Kocsis, are a list Member, and I do not think that your mandate is worth less than here. [[Turning to the pro-government benches:]] I turn to this page because there are several representatives from individual constituencies here, so your mandate under the Constitution is exactly the same as in the case of individual constituencies. In addition, in the context of this bill, it is logical to put the county government in position, because those living in that municipality are also voting specifically on the composition of the county municipality as well as on the composition of the leaders of their own municipalities, but they are voting for both. So it is not possible to say that someone who is not supported by the citizens of that settlement will be placed in a decision-making position. And I'd really just put it there as the parentheses of the parentheses, that you may paint the county governments in public as if they were painting every constitutional institution as if it were some kind of Fidesz executive organization, but on the one hand, on the basis of the citizens' vote, the county body in which they are there in proportion, I'm sorry, it's not cynicism talking about me, I don't know if it's a representative of the county of dialogue, but it's DK, MSZP, LMP, it's better, it's momentous, and who knows what else, it is. Those people get paid, they get the mandate from the electorate so that the county can benefit both the pro-government and the opposition. There is also a committee structure there, as I understand it, that it also has opposition presidents, and there are officials of the county assembly who are not pro-government, so this is a body like this parliament: mixed. It is undoubtedly true that the vast majority of county voters have now put the pro-government majority in the majority, but all political sides are still sitting there, and it is everyone's job to work for the good of the county and it can create conflict situations. So when both settlements rightly want to benefit from tax revenues between the two settlements, because I think it is legitimate, that all the development needs coming from the citizens' side are legitimate, but there is a certain amount of resources available, and someone has to resolve this conflict between the two equal municipal authorities, then who else would be capable of doing so than the county government, which also has municipal autonomy? That's why I just can't understand the error is probably in my device, but I can't understand what could be unacceptable in this context. And as I listened to the opposition speeches, I do not know, for example, that you remember a five-minute monologue about the cooperation between Members of Parliament and the mayor of the city of Pécs, elected in the individual constituencies around Pécs, in the previous system. So, if I understand correctly, Congressman Kács had a problem with the fact that the mayor of Pécs and the Members of Parliament of Pécs had indeed sat down and discussed what would be good for Pécs, and that they had worked together to lobby and dealt with it, and what a terrible story that was, was said by the Member of Cács in a speech of about ten minutes, drawing up a whole dramaturgyan arch. Isn't that the job? Isn't that the point of the matter, not on a political basis, I don't know what kind of freedom fight it should be, but the Members of Parliament, the city leaders and the state should cooperate to develop the settlement and the region? We've talked about the case in the pit several times. I'm sorry, I don't know if that's what you really think, but I still think there are serious problems. So you really think that Samsung, one of the world's largest companies, has three factories in Asia and a piece of Göd, and this happened by sitting down in Seoul, the leaders of Samsung, opened the map, poked at Göd, and said why not build our only high-tech battery factory outside Asia here? Or, as former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány said, three or four talented people met in Göd, and they discussed with the leaders of Samsung that they would then make the only European factory here? If you really think that's what's going on, then the problem is, if you don't think that's what you do, then that's the problem. This story can work by working with the Hungarian state, the entire institutional system of the Hungarian government, with years of work, with the cooperation of local governments, cooperation of local entrepreneurs and everyone who thinks normally on this issue, because it is absolutely clear and normal that the Hungarian national strategy goal is to bring this high-tech industry here, and it is good for the country and good for the locals. And this construction of years' work is something that should be maintained. Indeed, during the emergency, it was necessary to take concrete action in this case because the left-wing city leadership was specifically occupied with each other, and would have contributed to making the investment impossible if the activity that they were doing then was to be carried out, and they wanted to make the work of people, organisations, the Hungarian state and the people there impossible for years. But it's an emergency case, it's a completely different story, it's a unique situation; it's a general opportunity to address the problem of how to make the allocation more proportionate for this type of investment. If you allow me one last thought, this was a concrete suggestion from you on how the fate of this property would turn out. If I am well aware of the practice of the Constitutional Court and of the logic of the Constitutional Court, and I hope that I do not know it badly, because I have dealt with this area, the Constitutional Court clearly says, and I think it is logical and right that the wealth of tasks serves the task, it shares its fate. So if the task is to be reorganized, one of the hats is to move one task into the other hat, then the associated property elements can be transferred to this other hat. This is why it was not unconstitutional, for example, when the state took over institutional maintenance tasks from the county authorities, because the Constitutional Court said, quite normally, that if you take the task, you can also take the related property. If there is a dispute, that dispute must be settled. [[13.50]] If you don't take the job, you can't take the money. If you take the job, you can transfer the property because it's for the purpose of carrying out that task. Therefore, I do not see such a big problem from this, and I think it is particularly necessary for such a construction to develop. But at the end of the day, you are right to try a construction that hasn't existed in the last thirty years, so it is important for us, too, to create a construction that strikes a balance that works, which will be able to achieve the goal that we have set. Therefore, we are open to all improvements and amendments. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi.]] I would like to thank you once again for the supporting contributions and for the critical but constructive contributions from the opposition side, and let us not worry about the rest, because that is what we are doing, we are here to listen to them as well. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-20-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The International Convention for the Carriage of Rail at Bern on 9 May 1980 on the publication of the 2009 and 2018 amendments to the text of the Protocol adopted in Vilnius on 3 June 1999 and the 2006 Protocol of 3 June 1999 on the publication of the Convention on International Carriage by Rail adopted in Vilnius by Bern on 9 May 1980. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/10515. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-05-20-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me to say a few words about the Interstate Organisation for International Rail Transport, which is short for OTIF. The international organisation set up in Bern in 1985 aims to promote, develop and facilitate international rail transport and cross-border transport. The infrastructure covered by the OTIF rules covers some 270 thousand kilometres. The organisation has 50 Member States. One of these is Hungary as a full member. The International Rail Transport Convention was published in Hungary by Decree-Law No 2 of 1986. Dear House, The 13th General Assembly of the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Rail Transport in Bern in September 2018 amended the International Rail Transport Convention and its Appendices on several points in order to ensure a more efficient operation. It has also been decided to adopt a new Appendix H, which regulates the safe operation of trains in international traffic. The bill before you initiates the publication of these amendments and the elements of changes to previous years that have not been transposed into domestic legislation. The Convention establishes a period of 36 months for the entry into force of the amendments adopted by the General Assembly. In addition, the text is supplemented by a flexibility clause which allows for an extension of the deadline if the majority of the general meeting agrees. This provision aims to allow amendments to the Appendix to enter into force within a shorter period of time than in previous years. Amendments to the Convention and the Appendices do not harm Hungary. Dear Parliament, Hungary applies the provisions of the International Rail Transport Convention with binding effect in the administrative supervision and operational management of rail passenger and freight transport as a full member of the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Rail Transport. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. László György Lukács will be replaced by Bence of Tordai.]]
u2020-05-20-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speech will now be held by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-20-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, This month, the International Rail Transport Organization is 35 years old. At the time, the organisation was set up to make international rail freight easier, smoother and more modern. This organisation has been and continues to be based on the Convention which is the subject of this bill. This convention was established in 1980, it was born about forty years ago. Since then, OTIF, the International Rail Transport Organisation, has extended this on several occasions and has modified it to meet the challenges of the modern age and to adapt it to the legal order of the Member States. The smooth operation of the organization is also important for our country. The government's explicit aim and in recent decades has been shown to improve the quality of rail freight services, and this is reflected in the figures, since more than HUF 1300 billion of rail development and modernisation projects have been implemented. This is one of the reasons why rail transport is now an environmentally friendly and practical alternative to road freight transport. This aspect is also important to me, as I have been a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development for 8 years and at the parliamentary assembly of international organisations I see the importance of preserving and improving the status of our planet, as it is the 21st century. One of the biggest challenges of the 20th century is the need for mobility, whether it is the movement of persons or the transport of goods, and to bring environmental protection into line. The growth of mobility needs outweighs the growth of all other economic sectors. Moreover, taking into account the fact that some sectors may even show a decrease, transport plays a specific role in the sustainable development of economic life. In the language of numbers, this means that in the EU countries, between 2000 and 2020, we can expect a 50% increase in freight transport. If we consider that transport is 98 percent dependent on oil, which accounts for 26 per cent of CO2 emissions in the EU, and we say that rail transport accounts for only 0.1 per cent of emissions from climate change, while for 2.3 per cent of air transport and 15 per cent of road, we can see that the priority of rail transport can do much to reduce CO2 emissions. On the other hand, all these ideas are supported by the fact that the so-called external costs borne by society, due to the harmful environmental effects of transport, represent on average 10% of GDP in the European Union countries. From these few figures, it can also be seen from the fact that rail plays a major role and can be an important role in reducing CO2 emissions from the transport sector, and for these reasons it is clear that it does not matter in what direction we develop the transport sector, how we solve it, how we implement the movement of goods from our country even to remote countries. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But beyond environmental and sustainability considerations, there are other important aspects. Today, we feel very strongly about these, as in recent weeks, the first container train launched directly into our country from China, which brought sanitary protective equipment. This train has traveled over 10,000 kilometers. In addition to the existing air bridge, the land route for imports of protective equipment has also been ensured. It is therefore clear that international rail transport has an important role to play in dealing with the current crisis. There is no doubt, therefore, that in order for such a train crossing continents to arrive safely in our country, there is a need for a comprehensive, state-of-the-art international transport agreement. Therefore, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I can say that we will support this proposal and encourage my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2020-05-20-76	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Congressman Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, By the inherent constructivity of Jobbik, you will vote in favour of this bill, and I will, by virtue of my inherent humanism, spare you some paraphrase of the general justification here. In any case, it is a fact that the promotion of international rail freight transport, its development and promotion must be a very important transport policy objective, since, as Mrs Bartos said earlier, negative externalities which, where appropriate, could represent up to 10 percent of GDP could be reduced in this form. If, let us say, we compare the different modes of transport, then it can be said that the negative externality caused by the carriage of goods by road and, in particular, by heavy goods vehicles in Hungary amounts to some EUR 3 billion per year. That is why it is an important goal to steer freight transport into a tied path. That's what rail freight would be like. Moreover, we have the right EU standards for this, 2030 and 2050 objectives. We can all support this, because the Hungarian future is very important for us, and the reasons for sustainability and environmental protection at all. It is very important that emissions of pollutants, which are much better characterised by other modes of transport, should be reduced in such a way, as toxic, carcinogenic substances that cause serious problems here in Hungary, as well, would cause a much lower proportion of the population, the health of Hungarian people. On the other hand, when we talk about such things, we must also add that if international rail freight is needed, then we need the railway itself, the railway track. And where else do you ask, say, a opposition MP, what is true of those news, the letters leaked by the press, that István Tarlós was a mayor, now as Prime Minister, said that under the cover of the epidemic, it would actually be time to eliminate certain railway lines. This is a very interesting and very sensitive subject, especially from your point of view, because when such a disgrace occurred in the previous period, I am talking about the period before the 2010 change of government, then Fidesz was quite right to be outraged by these line closures. Now it's about the harsher, much more gloomy scenario where the death sentence would be passed on to some 46 sidelines. The fact is that it could then be classified here, and then I will specifically ask Mr Secretary of State what he knows about these things, or what he knows about the record, and at all, to the people who live there, to say something encouraging to us, as we hope. What about, say, the Győr-Veszprém line, which is not the last from a tourist point of view? What will happen to the Vác-Balassagyarmat section, what will happen to the Asód-Balassagyarmat-Ipolytarnóc section, the Nékladháza-Tiszaújváros, the Mezőtúr-Orosháza-Mezőhegyes line? You have to ask all of that. Because if I say this once again, I can fully agree with what Mr Secretary of State said in his speech, or even Mrs Mónika Bartos, on behalf of Fidesz, so these noble objectives really contain important transport policy aspects that we can fully identify ourselves here from the opposition. Only then the theory and practice may conflict seriously again. If this collision exists here, then these fine words, which have been said, are nothing more than empty eavesdropping. It would be very good if, in these few minutes, it were to be revealed what is true from these news aired by the press, and what is waiting for those rural communities, the rural areas that would be so repressed with a line closure. We believe that the railway has actually been a very important tool for social and economic formation here in Hungary since its heroic age. It is perfectly natural for people to be concerned about railway or sideline closures. I come from an area in South Somogy, where that town has XX. At the beginning of the century, we can tell by the fact that like a spider sat in the middle of the railway lines, these wings formed a net. Then came the harsher '70s, when many of these sidelines had a death sentence under rationalization, and then you have to look at what South Somogy looks like now. Obviously, there were other reasons why we could observe this cumulative disadvantage, but rail destruction could have been one of these components. There are also reports that if a milder version prevails, and this 46 lines will not be closed, but let's just say that they are 20, which you have chosen to eliminate or plow the traffic there for ever. It is also about the fact that there will be no railway line within the area defined by Kecskemét-Szolnok-Cegléd-Békéscsaba-Szeged. However, if the things that have been said here are really important to the governing parties, then I think that these plans should be swept off the table, or at least not dealt with in the way that is usually the case in Hungary. So, you're not gonna ask the frogs to drain the swamp, and then the people who live there are gonna face what they're gonna do over their heads, and they're gonna tell them they need a railroad, or they're not gonna have to. We believe that yes, this railroad is a very important thing. If we recall the former words of the Member, she said that in recent years some HUF 1300 billion has been spent on railway development. It is perfectly ok that if this development is implemented through projects that are not overpriced. But then I am forced to put it here now and create an opposing party to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian railway network is about 8,000 kilometres long. That's what 1300 billion forints were spent on. Now they're going to want to argue over the numbers for just a hundred miles, let's say we're going to spend 1,000 billion at the thousand billion, this is the home section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway. Isn't there some kind of imbalance here? 'Cause we feel like we do. If it is scarce in resources, and it is seen that in many cases we cannot afford resources, would it not be more sensible to spend these funds in a more rational way so as to make use of them? Now, for a section of less than 150 kilometers, yesterday, this House has voted on this for a HUF 1000 billion. And these sidelines are there, standing there, floating in nothingness, in uncertainty, because they can be sentenced to death at any time. In fact, you have also said many times in opposition that, in the course of the clearance of lines or cancellations, the real savings are, in fact, not in proportion to the social damage caused to those areas that are affected by this closure. We say that the Hungarian countryside deserves much more than this, and at some point they should answer that, in the national transport strategy a few years ago, they somehow said that out of the 8 thousand kilometres of domestic railway, it is about 6 thousand kilometres that are profitablely sustainable, so it is about the main lines and the sidelines that can be operated with benefits. [[14.10]] Then let us ask the Secretary of State, and once again, what will happen to the remaining 1700-2000 kilometers of railway line. And then quite specifically, Mr. State Secretary, once again, what will happen to 46 or 20 railway lines in the press news, which we here in the Jobbik faction say would certainly be a great need for the countryside, for the preservation of the countryside, for the Hungarian survival, for the survival of the population. We're waiting for a coming out, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-05-20-78	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party, please.
u2020-05-20-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The founding Convention of the international rail interstate organisation established 35 years ago, based in Bern, has already been amended several times, in recent years and decades it has been here several times before the National Assembly. Thus, the so-called Vilnius Protocol, which was adopted in 1999, allowed the European Union to join this organisation. In the course of the amendments, technical novelties, technical changes, corrections, deletions and new wordings were made. Further amendments were made at the last General Meeting in 2018, and the adoption of a new Appendix H was also decided. The new Appendix regulates the safe operation of trains in international traffic and aims to harmonise the Convention with the acquis of the European Union and to support interoperability beyond the borders of the European Union. I think that the coronal virus epidemic has also shown how important it is to keep the borders open for freight, so that there is no obstacle to freight traffic both by road and by rail. I think that the European Community has passed a good test in this, and that the agreements that all the countries have observed have been important, and that, although they have closed their borders, they have kept the opening hours for freight transport. And perhaps, apart from minor disruptions, there were no obstacles, and hundreds of kilometres of rows were not formed in convoys of trucks at the borders, and yet both the safety measures and the supply were guaranteed to the citizens of the Member States of the European Union from food and goods. I think this is very important when we talk about such a bill or convention, to mention its topicalities, and how well road and rail freight have tested in recent months. As my better fellow Member has acknowledged, many improvements have been made in recent years, worth HUF 1300 billion, as my fellow Member has already mentioned. I think that, for example, only Mr Secretary of State has closed, opened or announced a lot of developments for the next period, which may give rise to confidence. There have been a lot of improvements in Budapest's wider suburban transport, many kilometers of electrification taking place or taking place in recent years, and there are also modernisation works in progress. If you look at the professional photos of the new FLIRT, KISS, Desiro or other trains that are going to work in Hungary, you can see that the Hungarian transport can be enriched with a very modern and modern train park. Of course, rail transport has always been important to us, and we consider it a key pillar of Hungarian public transport, which is why we are investing so much in it. Of course, we have never said this to Congressman Ander, that this is done work. Every year, new lines and wing lines need to be refurbished. The development of suburban transports is a very, very important and high priority both in Budapest and in cities with major county rights, so it is a continuous work that is not finished. We pay huge debts, because the legacy left behind by the socialists must be replaced, processed and then moved on. The ratification of two thirds of the Member States is necessary for the current amendments to enter into force. There have been three ratifications from the 50 Member States so far. We are not too late, we can set an example for the other Member States. The amendments to the Convention are adopted and published by law in Hungary, the decisions of the international organisation will be incorporated into the domestic legal order by the publication of the law. From the outset, Hungary has supported the international rail interstate transport organisation and has applied the provisions of the International Rail Transport Convention to rail passenger transport and freight transport. We therefore consider it important to publish the amendments to the International Rail Transport Convention as soon as possible. On the part of the KDNP faction, we support the adoption of this bill, and I call on my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-80	Thank you very much. Member Gyula Molnár, lead speaker of the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As far as I'm concerned, I'm the first-ever, and Congressman Crusade will speak. I had the honour of sitting through this extremely high-quality four-and-a-half-hour debate, and I had a very strong urge to join myself as a municipal man, but I held back. And here I can now complete this perfect bill that the government has submitted to Parliament at this extremely critical time. But I would also like to comment on this with the immense wisdom that there have been so many good thoughts here from those who spoke before me in the previous period that I do not wish to multiply them any longer myself. Two things have not been discussed here, my fellow Members. I would like to add that I consider it extremely important that, according to the 798 EU directive adopted in 2016, this is perfectly appropriate and, as far as we can see, we understand, these are trying to correct several technical and several types of translation errors. So for our part, we would like to contribute to today's peaceful and blessed atmosphere compared to the very sharp debate over the last five hours by announcing it, and by doing so, I will obviously be very surprised that the Socialist Group will also support this law in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-82	Thank you. Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, leader and lead speaker of the LMP, please.
u2020-05-20-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I do not wish to comment on this too long. We can say, indeed, that, compared to the last five hours, there is a proposal here in which we can agree, and even agree, on the speeches or on the thoughts that my fellow Member, Mónika Bartos, and the Secretary of State have said. However, I do not want to go to the debate on the bill so quickly either. I am taking advantage of the opportunity to have here, Mr Secretary of State, Secretary of State for an important area, transport policy. It is rarely possible to ask questions directly. Rail transport is quite clear... yesterday we had a long debate on climate change issues. We know that in addition to energy policy or in addition to energy production, transport is a sector which also makes a huge contribution to emissions, and in this respect, freight transport by rail obviously has a huge role to play, and, I add, rail passenger transport. We also discussed yesterday that we should also go in the direction that, instead of short-term flights, we should be able to shift personal transport in such a way, by expanding the fast-track network, so that it is possible to reduce emissions, and, of course, we can say that this is also particularly true for freight transport, but as my fellow Member Ander has already pointed out, we also need adequate infrastructure to do so. I do not wish to repeat the questions concerning the state of the national rail network that Mr President has put, but rather to add a little. As regards the resources, we have heard how much money has been spent in recent years or how much they are planning to spend in the coming years to develop the railway network, but at the same time we need to confirm that the domestic railway network is in a terrible state, and there is a huge lack of nearly a thousand billion forints that were decided yesterday with encryption to be used for the development of the Budapest-Belgrade railway line. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to talk, for some thought, about how these funds are intended to be replaced, because the improvements that have been announced so far are not enough to enable this extremely important infrastructure to be developed in substance. What will be the specific fate of these wings, and what are the government's plans to make them better? When we look back, not only to the period since the change of regime, but also to the period before they really decided to close a large wing line, the policy was always to divert funds, not to develop these wing lines, they are becoming more and more ruined, and then that is the reason for plowing and winding up. So if you are talking about, or if you wish very much to confirm, Mr Secretary of State, that these wing lines are considered important, then we also need to talk about how to improve their condition, how to increase their efficiency and usefulness, this would be extremely important. And then I'd like to respond to one more thing. Congresswoman Mónika Bartos spoke about the arrival of a shipment of protective equipment from China, and we have always said that I myself stressed that it is very important that we can get protective equipment during this period. And I would not go into quality issues at all now, and the rest, but I would like to point out that this pandemic and the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, which is affecting not only us, Europe, but also globally, must certainly highlight the need for a whole other economic policy perspective in the next period. [[14.20]] So it will certainly not be sustainable to transport essential services across continents from distant continents, including mass products that could be produced at local or regional level. If we take the idea of sustainability seriously, we take it seriously that the 21st edition of the 21st century is an important step towards sustainability. One of the biggest challenges of the 20th century, if it is not its greatest challenge, together with all its effects, to combat climate change and to reduce its effects, is to change economic policy thinking in this direction. And from this point of view, if we are talking about strengthening a local and regional, whether or not a European cooperation or economic cooperation, then we must pay great attention to the development of the corresponding infrastructure, and it is obviously our job to focus primarily on the development of domestic infrastructure, i.e. the development of the national rail network in extremely poor condition. That is why we consider it a crazy mistake, what Parliament's pro-government representatives did yesterday, on the proposal of the government, to develop the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. In particular, there is no evidence, no evidence that this will be repaid in any way, and we believe that an infrastructure development contributes to the maintenance of this vulnerable situation, which we believe to be unsustainable economic policy, and is therefore extremely regrettable. But we very much hope that the Secretary of State will now reassure us, Mr Ander and myself, that the government does not wish to continue the practice and intentions of the Balliberal predecessors, and does not intend to close the wing line, or even to improve them. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-05-20-84	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Would anyone like to speak, honourable Members? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no further speeches were made, the general debate is closed. I am asking Mr Mosóczi, Secretary of State, if you would like to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-20-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your constructive speeches, contributions and opinions. Indeed, rail transport is a very important link in transport, passenger transport, freight and logistics as a whole, and we can now say, in practice, that it is an unmissible link, since the climate policy and climate situation of the world also require that the share of rail be given an increasing role in transport, because if we really want to reduce the amount of CO2 by 2030 and 2050 to levels that enable the living world, then the railway should always be supported. The Government of Hungary has repeatedly declared that rail transport is the backbone in community transport, so it does not plan any sideline closure, and indeed, as Members have asked how it develops the sidelines, as we have heard from Congresswoman Bartos, in the last programming period there has been an investment worth 1300 billion forints, and in the next cycle we are planning a fixed-track investment worth nearly 1000 billion forints, of course this is not final. For these renovations and investments, as most of these are limited to the repair of main lines and speed increase, axle load increase, electrification, the materials from here are incorporated into the sidelines for secondary recovery, thus improving their quality significantly, as these materials can be used very well elsewhere. For example, the Vác-Balassagymat railway was mentioned here. I recently negotiated with my colleague from Slovakia in Bratislava, and we agreed that on the line between our Drégélypalat and Ipolyság, which had been removed a long time ago, in order to further facilitate mobility between the two countries, we will examine the possibility of rebuilding and restoring this, for example. We have done a great deal in passenger transport in recent years to improve service standards. If you look at it, there are many different places in the country, both diesel and electric motor trains, the two-story engine trains appeared in the test plant, and the railway passenger car production started in Hungary in Szolnok. We produce cars in Hungarian value of 70 percent, which are appearing in an increasing number on the network. So it can be said that the government is doing everything it can to increase the quality of rail transport as a spinal mode. I would also like to inform honourable Members that Hungary really has a railway network of 8 thousand kilometres, of which some more than 3,000 kilometres belong to the national sections of the trans-European transport network, the so-called TEN-T network. The European Union has made binding recommendations or obligations to meet these technical parameters, in order to ensure that these lines connect several countries in its name. We can say that it is 2020 but, on the one hand, these are projects that require very serious technical investment, as it is necessary to provide axle loads, 225 kilonewtons on these railway lines, two tracks are electrified and capable of travelling at a speed of 160 km/h, in addition to being able to operate 740 meters long trains. So the core network that is part of the trans-European network must be brought to this parameter. In order to achieve this, not only the European Union but also other resources must be used. I would also mention in Community transport that both bus and rail transport play a major role, but both are ordered by the State and financed by the State, of course supplemented by passenger fare to the level of cost that service providers require. In order to ensure high-quality public transport, we need roads, railways, vehicles. The government is working to create these conditions, we have visible results, I mentioned some of them, but in order to ensure that the costs invested here are used optimally, we would like to establish a Community transport network whose backbone network is therefore the main lines and sidelines and the bus is a complement to this. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-05-20-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain transport laws until closure. Government referral T/10523. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First of all, I would like to give the floor once again to Secretary of State László Mosóczi, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, From the beginning, the government has been working to reduce the damage and disadvantage of Hungary, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy by keeping the economy moving. The transport sector, which has always been one of the engines of development, has been tightened stronger than the closure of the Iron Curtain. This is why it was particularly important that the government came almost for the first time through the transport sector, interfering in the first hours in order to ensure that the basics of freight transport could work, and that Hungary, the care of Hungarian families, would be ensured. Interoperability for transit was essential to avoid relaxation from economic circulation. Dear House, The bill before you contains 13 amendments to the law. The amendments include, inter alia, the effective development and safe operation of the road network, as well as provisions to address and clarify the practical issues raised in the application of the law. The proposal will help to ensure that roads and road assets are managed and owned by those whose statutory public tasks justify this. Thus, the national roads should be state-owned, local roads owned by the municipality, as there may be irregular ownership situations. Similarly, for reasons of clarity, it is necessary to settle at a legal level that the management of the pavement and bus stop in the residential area is the responsibility of the municipalities. [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, In the case of priority transport investments, the amendment allows for a wider public contribution to the construction activity which does not interfere with the public development objectives. For the purpose of whitening the holding, the National Tax and Customs Office is currently entitled to receive data from several control bodies to carry out its control tasks in connection with the electronic road traffic control system operated by it. According to the amendment, the NAV will also be entitled to request data from public area supervision. This gives the opportunity to ensure that the effective movement of goods is monitored to the fullest extent possible. The placing on the market of new vehicles in large numbers means that available license numbers combinations can run out faster than previously planned. The expected time will be clarified by the bill, which will facilitate and speed up the preparation of measures on new registration numbers. Dear House, The proposed amendment of the Road Transport Act and the Toll Act provides a legal framework for the integration of the inflation impact system. Based on this, it will be possible to develop detailed rules and implement automatic inflation monitoring in an e-toll system proportionate to the domestic journey and in an e-vignette system proportionate to the duration of use. The amendments represent a more predictable burden for road users. The rail sector is a key transport sector for environmental protection and sustainable development. The harmonisation of legislation in the rail sector and the provision of pan-European interoperability can also be effective with the adoption of the legislative amendment. The legislative transposition of the technical pillar of the so-called fourth railway package is necessary primarily in order to bring together the ongoing package of transposition legislation at the level of government regulations and ministerial regulations containing detailed rules into a coherent legislative system. Under the provisions of the fourth railway package, the single safety certificate for railway undertakings, the marketing vehicle authorisations and type licences for railway vehicles on different national rail networks will normally be issued by the European Union Railway Agency. The national rail transport authority, which is incorporated by the Hungarian railway safety authority as part of a cooperation agreement, provides professional support to the Agency. In the field of railway infrastructure development, the issuing of building and entry licences will continue to be the responsibility of the rail transport authority, but it will also be necessary to obtain the approval of the Agency before the start of investments involving the so-called European rail traffic management system, that the system to be implemented will ensure interoperability for all rolling stock. In addition to the above, the amendments include provisions in the field of technical regulation, official responsibilities and procedures, rail training and administrative data management to ensure that the transposition is fully implemented and that a new operational system is put in place by the deadline. Relevant legislation requires Member States to provide central access to consolidated annual reports prepared by competent authorities, for example through a common web portal. The amendment of the law also provides access to them. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Passenger Transport Services Act represents an important step forward not only for the transport sector but also for the tourism sector. The purpose of the amendment is to exclude drivers with a criminal record from the market for passenger car transport services, such as passenger cars and passenger cars. The adoption of the amendment may reduce the amount of infringements at the expense of passengers, improve the social perception of the taxi industry and improve the quality of service. The regulatory proposal lists only offences relevant to the pursuit of the profession and therefore does not constitute an unjustified and disproportionate restriction on fundamental rights linked to the free choice of occupation. The amendment has full professional support, and it is considered necessary to legislate both by the state and municipal control bodies and by taxicab associations. In addition to the effective protection of Hungarian passengers, the measure can also contribute to the fact that tourists arriving in international traffic in Hungary do not get their first impressions of our country in the vicinity of airports and main railway stations. Dear Parliament, The most important issue before you is the legal basis for market opening conditions. The concession law provides that, in the event of the continuation of the activity subject to concession, the establishment of a concession company is compulsory, unless the sectoral legislation provides otherwise. In view of the fact that scheduled inter-local passenger transport is included in the exclusive economic activities of the State by the National Property Act, the amendment ensures that regulatory incoherence is lifted. The solution guarantees that, in addition to complying with EU standards, Hungarian market players will not be impossible to apply. The amendment proposal also clarifies the system of opening up the bus and coach markets, which is of paramount importance for domestic public transport. Dear Parliament, Keeping the transport sector moving is in the fundamental interest of all countries, the fundamental element of maintaining social and economic blood circulation. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill amending certain laws relating to transport. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. Congressman Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of Fidesz is the first. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As you've heard in the expozee, T/10523 on the amendment of certain traffic laws. The Government's bill No 1 concerns, inter alia, rail, shipping, air transport public services and road transport legislation. The legislative proposal before you aims to bring the necessary legislative amendments to the current legislation, thereby contributing, inter alia, to the efficient development and safe operation of the road network, since about three quarters of the total road traffic is involved in the national road network. Dear House, Without the need for completeness, I would like to highlight some elements of the proposal. With regard to road transport, the proposal helps to ensure that roads and their assets are managed and owned by those whose statutory public service mission justifies this. Thus, national roads can be owned by public authorities and local roads by local governments, creating a clear and clear ownership situation under a fast and efficient procedure. The bill also contains the necessary provisions for establishing the inflation-following toll. In addition to this proposal, it is important that revenue from tolling is one of the main pillars of the development of the national road network. The amendment provides for the possibility of automatic increases in fees at the beginning of each calendar year, in a transparent, predictable and understandable way for everyone. The amendment of the Water Transport Act allows the amount of the administrative fine to be increased from HUF 1 million to HUF 5 million in order to provide a sufficient deterrent against offenders. It is important to stress here that the proposal only proposes to increase the ceiling of the fine, which the authority must consider in the light of the criteria laid down by law. And speaking of withholding infringements, allow me to also highlight from the package of proposals the provisions for amending the Passenger Transport Services Act. It aims to detect drivers with a criminal record in the market for passenger passenger transport services by reducing the number of infringements committed to the harm of passengers. [[14.40]] This can also contribute to improving the social perception of the taxi industry and to improving the quality of service. Dear House, We are pleased to note that the virus crisis did not override plans for the development of the Hungarian road network. The coronal virus epidemic and emergency measures did not cause significant delays in domestic transport development, and constructions continued with increased caution. Step-by-step relief of the emergency will allow new construction sites to start in more and more places, and these investments will make a significant contribution to the survival of Hungarian construction companies, the preservation of jobs and the creation of new ones. The adoption of the bill submitted by the government is essential both for the relaunch of the economy and for the fulfilment of our obligations to the European Union. Not to mention that in the absence of the adoption of the amendments, the process of carrying out large investments may also be prevented. In the light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Balázs Ander, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In general, we can conclude that there is a system of rules for licensing, regulation, management and registration of public property and its manager, which we are faced with, and in most cases there is no technical objection, but this is a traffic salad law, and with its good 40 pages, it has some surprises that we are obliged to say that we cannot agree with. Well, let's look at the nicer, more digestible parts. The amendment of the Passenger Transport Services Act regulates in detail, as has been said, the acts of the Btk. which lead to a criminal record under which a passenger transport licence may not be issued. It is perfectly natural that this is a good decision, and we support it, but it narrows the possibility for individuals with criminal record to enter this sector, whose renome was, however, torn by people. Let's look at the more worrying parts. I have in my hand, among other things, a letter from the Association of Hungarian Road Transporters and the National Carriage Industry of Private Entrepreneurs. I'm guessing you got it, too, Secretary of State. You got it, too. This is a question of the fact that Act I of 1988 on road transport and the 2013 LXVII on charges proportional to the journey taken. Laws will be amended, which means that an automatic annual fee increase will be carried out, the system of which would be introduced in the case of the usage fee, i.e. the sticker and the toll for use, i.e. the e-toll. The economic environment in which representatives of the world, including the country, and in this sector, have come into play may not make this acceptable in this form without concern. With regard to passenger transport, it should be seen that the sector has actually peaked at zero since the beginning of the year. Many thousands of businesses, the fate of even more workers, and their jobs have become questionable, who have already suffered significant market losses here in their own home market. The preservation of their competitiveness, the rescue of these companies engaged in both goods and passenger transport, would be an extremely important thing. And not only do they ask, they also write in this letter that they still consider strict control important, so it's not about letting go of everything here, just getting, getting, getting. This is not the case, but Hungarian interests and the interests of Hungarian carriers should be protected at least here, on the domestic market, and under conditions where competitors have received much more serious support for Polish or Romanian carriers from their homes, thus creating a competitive advantage on the Hungarian market and crowding out these domestic companies. Therefore, to their argument, namely that this automatic and inflation-following price increase should be achieved, something should be answered, compensated, supported, and it is clear that if this support system existed in Hungary, they would not send such letters to the Members of Parliament, because they would now have no reason to do so. So, I look forward to your comments by the Secretary of State on this. Well, in the road transport section of the proposal, it is specified that, in the case of sections of national state-owned roads within the municipality, the rights and responsibilities of the operators of the sidewalks and of the built-up bus stops will be transferred to the municipalities. We just heard about this. In this respect, there would be no professional objection, but it is not possible to see that the municipalities would be given resources to carry out these management tasks, and this is the cardinal question. It is a fact that, along such roads, there is no sidewalk at all, or its construction, its utility leaves serious demands. The same is true of some of the bus stops. Part of it, I say, because in some parts of the country previously using EU funding from the service provider Volánbusz Zrt. and its predecessors have built many modern stops with bays and waiting rooms. Where these programs did not reach, however, there are many places where the roadblock is basically the bus stop. So I understand that the transfer of management data is logical from your point of view, it is professionally sound, but obviously an extra burden for the lack of resources municipalities, which also means that not many new sidewalks and bus stops will be built in the future. LIII of 2006 on the acceleration of investments of major importance for the national economy We also have concerns about the amendment of the law. We have been hating this law since Ferenc Gyurcsány, which has greatly undermined the democratic legal order, violates the principle of subsidiarity and environmental interests, where appropriate. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Under Orbán, our dear fellow Member Nacsa, the legislation has already reached the point where it will completely undermine the local authorities, as well as the local interests. The current, the 35th. This is also the case with the amendment in §8. There have been several recent cases, my fellow Members, in which the planned investment was in conflict with the interests of the local settlements in question, and the notary tried to prevent the settlement planning plans from being adapted to the expectations of the builder even though the law required them to fulfil their obligations within four months. It'll all be over now. So if the settlement doesn't submit, despite the opposition of the settlement, the government office will issue the building permit. So we have come to the conclusion that the settlements will no longer have the right to have a say in what the state and its friends will build on their territory. We believe that this is a serious conflict, an open kick-off of the division of power at the time of the change of regime. You, fellow Members of the Government, really have no reason to point backwards in this respect, because we believe that the Orbáns, you are working on the same basis as Ferenc Gyurcsány at the time, but the fact is that you are doing this much more precisely and violently. The powers and resources of the municipal authorities are essentially disappearing today during the four-to-five-hour debate, and my fellow Members have also spoken a great deal about this, and they remain with them, or are added to, the tasks that I have just mentioned here, the care of which is for the state, and for the lack of resources, it will be possible to scold the opposition-led settlements here with a full throat. Well, what's still on the cake is a little bit of a bill 39. It is found modestly in its section. [[14.50]] The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Law 12 A paragraph would be added. It is stated that the right to exercise the exclusive economic activity referred to in point (g) may be transferred to another person in the manner specified in the sectoral law without the award of a concession or a concession contract. What is point (g), my fellow Member Nacsa, let's find him. This could be a source of joy, if any, for your friends. The 2011 CXCVI. The relevant part of Act 6 concerns the exclusive economic activities of the State and the local government. Article 12 § 1 lists the exclusive economic activities of the State. There is a wide variety of production and distribution of fissionable and radioactive materials. In point (d), the establishment and operation of channels, state-owned water utilities and regional utility systems. But we're interested in point (g) right now. This is indeed what the Secretary of State mentioned, the scheduled inter-local road passenger transport. Tell me it's not fair, let's say, the concern. Tell them that we have no right to fear that this task, in the case at hand, can be functioned as a nice meat pot. This could go where it shouldn't go. Obviously, you'll find that the state is a bad owner, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, real neoliberal politics. Well, the point is that, according to the amendment, this economic activity, i.e. the right to exercise the right of scheduled inter-urban passenger transport by road, can be transferred to another by sector law without a concession application or a concession contract. Don't suspect anything? So we shouldn't have a bad feeling? Obviously, you can say that we can think in stereotypes, and what ugly congressmen and ladies are sitting here, prejudiced in opposition benches. However, my fellow Members here in the opposition benches have certainly proved themselves. So when we are forced to share these concerns with you, I must say that you have been well-deserved and have made sure that we are suspicious of each such case, and in each of these cases we say that we will have to look at them. So, let's say we translate that this service would actually be privatized, otherwise I would do the same thing, which made them scream so loud during Ferenc Gyurcsány's time. Please compare this with, say, the 99-year concession of Budapest Airport. Anyway, we are now saying what we were then; I ask with respect that the state can only be a bad owner, with some kind of lozunge a neoliberal and false claim, which we cannot accept. Let's go to Volánbusz Zrt., which is what we're talking about. It is a company with an annual turnover of 23 billion, and the budget supports it by even 90 billion per year. 19 200 people are employed by this company, and in this form we can talk about the third largest public company, 6500 buses, 12 million local flights per year, 4 million local flights, 3546 settlements in the country. It's an amazing achievement. We say it should be preserved. If you look at the mere driving performances here and the volume of this thing, and it was actually taken care of in two and a half rows in the whole bill, this means 411 million kilometers in local traffic and 37 million kilometers in local traffic. In the interim, 406 million passengers were registered each year and 261 million take-off passengers in local traffic. So, in total, the Hungarian state gives HUF 90 billion in the budget for this sector, plus an annual turnover of 23 billion. Let's ask ourselves, does anyone want it? Thank you.
u2020-05-20-92	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, lead speaker of KDNP, please.
u2020-05-20-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before I express our opinion on the bill, I would like to respond to two things that my better fellow Member has to say. Check your phone, because you said "Gyurcsány" three times; you may have been relieved of your position as vice president, in order to avoid any disadvantage. I would feel sorry for you if Peter James told you immediately about the problem. The logo had to be replaced on request. I just don't want the congressman to get hurt because he's been here three times. And the other one is...
u2020-05-20-94	I do not want to interfere with what the Member has to say, but the previous sentences on transport have shown little to do with transport, so please do not talk to Mr Ander, but to deal with transport. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-95	Yes, Mr. President. The other is whether the state is a good owner or a bad owner of the state. Of course, if you look at the efforts after 2010, you can see that state wealth has increased by one and a half times, worth more than HUF 18 000 billion today. It had to be done because the people on your left sold it out, they did a robbery privatization, so if the state can manage rationally and usefully, then of course it can be a good farmer. We never denied that. There's a reason we've increased the state's wealth by one and a half times over the last few years. The current bill contains 13 amendments to the legislation in the transport sector in order to introduce the necessary legislative amendments in the first half of 2020. In particular, the speakers before me, Mr State Secretary, have already explained in detail the detailed rules on the bill, and I would like to highlight the most important amendments. The purpose of the amendment of Law I of 1988 on road transport is also to address the practical issues raised in the application of the law. National Infrastructure Development Ltd. as the property management of the builder of local roads in the national and more limited context is subject to the current legislation only to property acquired by an expropriated or subpropriated sale; it may constitute an obstacle to the registration of the trust right in respect of properties acquired or already owned by the Hungarian State, that no purchase contract replacing expropriation or expropriation is concluded. It is appropriate to regulate the possibility of the creation of a trust right in cases where the acquisition of the property by the builder is carried out under other terms or with a free transfer of assets. With regard to the use of motorways of rest areas, there is a problem that the successful tenderer should not act as a builder in respect of transport facilities built in the area used, such as roads, parking lots, other surfaces for stopping. In order for the contractor to be able to act as builder of transport facilities in the utilised area and to obtain all permits in his own name and thus build them, a new paragraph should be added to Article 29. § 2 which clearly and reassuringly settles this issue. With regard to the operation and maintenance of the pavement, it is important to record at the legal level that it is the responsibility of the municipalities, regardless of ownership. In practice, my honourable fellow Member, in most local authorities, they already feel this task, cleaning the pavement, or doing it themselves. In many cases they also form local legislation to clean them, which sometimes causes problems, because it can conflict with a higher level of legislation, and therefore it is necessary to regulate established practice. Bus stops in the inhabited area are a completely similar issue to the sidewalk. XLII 2000 on water transport. On the basis of the amendment of Act No. 13, the examination centre shall carry out the navigational examination tasks as from 1 January 2020. It has become necessary to clarify the provisions of the Law on shipping fines in order to ensure that it can be imposed and to increase the amount of the fine in order to create a sufficient deterrent effect against the infringers, in addition to the discretion provided for in the Act. The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport The amendment of the law is justified by the transposition of the technical pillar, directives and harmonisation of the so-called fourth railway package. Its purpose is to ensure compliance with it. A railway vehicle may also be owned by a natural person and it is therefore necessary, on the basis of the proposal, to allow the transport authority managing the rolling stock register to process and record the identity of the natural persons in the register. This transposition is the technical pillar of the fourth railway package of the European Union, a set of technical rules designed to ensure that trains on the European rail network encounter as little barrier as possible from a technical point of view and comply with the conditions of so-called interoperability. [[15.00]] LIII of 2006 on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major economic importance. The amendment of the Act simplifies and updates the protection of the area band established by the delineating regulation and allows for a wider public contribution to the construction activity which does not interfere with the public development objectives. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the provisions of the law. In the case of a delineating regulation, the validity of the building permit and the start of the construction activity shall not be hindered by the lack of consistency between the settlement instrument and the issued permit. Discussions with clarification in the application of the law, which have occurred in the past, will be prevented. A further objective is to simplify existing rules which are unduly complicated in order to avoid unjustified barriers to the protection of the track to the construction of property, construction, demolition, landscaping and other value-added activities, cultivation and quality class changes that do not interfere with public development objectives. Of course, we support all rules that break down and simplify bureaucratic obstacles. It is clarified that the waiver of the claim for compensation is final and may take place outside the expropriation procedure or in addition to the sales contract with the builder. The amendment avoids that the builder may, despite a declaration of cancellation in the procedure for authorisation by the transport authority, claim compensation for the increase in value resulting from the investment made by the builder. LXVII of 2013 on the fee to be paid for the use of motorways, motorways and main roads in proportion to the journey taken. The amendment of the Act introduces an automatic inflation monitoring system. The reason is that revenues from domestic electronic toll systems are one of the most important pillars of the development and safe operation of the state-owned national road network. The implementation of automatic inflation monitoring requires a change in the methodology for charging, individual tariffs and the overall legal scope defining the scope of the mandatory sections. In the case of the e-toll, the 2013 LXVII fee for motorways, motorways and main roads, proportionate to the journey taken. Laws contain legislation at the statutory level, which is proposed to be amended by this proposal. The main consequence of the system-built solution with a joint amendment of the relevant legislation, which will automatically update each year, is that the system and fees due will be predictable for road users, not a case-by-case, not a high and not an unexpected increase. The latter aspect is particularly important for e-tolls, where it gives the transport society sufficient time to prepare, and also makes the changes in tolls predictable. The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. The purpose of the amendment of law is, inter alia, to exclude drivers with a criminal record from the market for road passenger transport services, passenger cars and passenger cars. The expected result of the measure is to reduce the amount of infringements committed at the expense of passengers in passenger passenger transport services, which improves the social perception of the taxi industry and, of course, improves the quality of the service. I think it's in our mutual interest. The amendment does not affect drivers with a passenger driver's ID. The driver attestation shall have a maximum period of validity of five years, so drivers must comply with the new requirements when issuing the following certificate, so that an ascending system is introduced. The transport authority shall have the right to consult the criminal record system and to know the data required to issue the driver attestation. The purpose of the amendment is to avoid new administrative burdens for citizens. Taxi professional interest representatives, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the National Taxis Association and the National Association of Transporters Enterprises have also asked the Ministry of Innovation and Technology to determine the proof of a non-criminal record as a prerequisite for issuing a passenger transport driver's card, so the profession not only provided its support, but also asked for it separately, obviously in the interest of the profession. In summary, we can conclude that the aim of the bill before us is to transpose the necessary legislative amendments in the field of rail, shipping, air transport, public services and road transport into the existing legislation. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-96	Thank you very much. Congressman Gyula Molnár, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2020-05-20-97	Thank you very much. It's a big deal for me now to have your support for the bill. I always have this dilemma and the weighing here that we've been here for 60 days that there's been an emergency government, an incredible amount of energy has been invested in proving why this unlimited mandate is needed for an unlimited period of time, and then suddenly we see a law of this type coming in in this round, and it's unclear where and why it's coming from. If you'll be able to answer in general, Mr. Secretary of State or anyone here, then, if you can fit into your lives, I'm really curious that this is... I listened to Congressman Hadházy's very embarrassing attempt to prove how this fits into this whole epidemiological situation. It's nothing, but it has nothing to do with this. By the way, I'm just gonna ask you in parentheses, aren't you superstitious enough to touch 13 laws? You could have added one more, it wouldn't have been such a big problem for you guys to be looking for something else. Now, I'm looking at this set of 13 as a buffet. If I can do that, I'll be raisining out of these. Let me tell you, it's a very striking thing. What are such very trivial changes, which, by the way, are completely clear timing still does not exist, but let's say that the fact that a taxi driver does not have a criminal record is what rules are in place for the issue of aquatic skill, which seems to be very trivial, there is an amazing justification, so there is a very long, thorough justification that legislation, EU harmonisation, professional organisations, is quite thorough and very generous. However, what is really exciting about this is going to be discussed in this 13 thing, but my good-looking fellow Member has discussed this for a long time, and it is very elegant that the need for regulation seems to justify the change, so there are such very, very lousy general sentences, but otherwise meaningless. I just want to tell you that they always speak for themselves, but they always show that there might be something behind it. My opposition colleague, who spoke before me, said that you have every reason to explain yourself. By the way, I share this opinion, but I also have another kind of approach to what kind of situation you're going to find yourself in. The classic case, when the wife goes home early, in flameranti comes to her husband, who says, "Honey, are you cheating on me?" And he says he doesn't. But I can see it. But who do you believe, me or your eyes? They're going to be in a situation where everyone really knows everything, everything's showing up, they're almost not turning off the lights, but they're still trying to explain that there's nothing here, and we've been negotiating laws all day, or for weeks or months, when it's very clear that something is there, something we suspect, and then after a while, it actually happens, or some part of it happens. All right, first I'll try to make it easier. It is a very spicy and interesting thing that while they are reducing the support of local authorities, while otherwise clearly trying to limit powers, they are constantly distracting, and not only in the case of special status, special rules, but also in an elegant way in such a salad law, they are clicking on tasks that, by the way, would not cause any problems for the more efficient municipalities to, say, keep the area around the bus stop in order, but I can still imagine a local government who, until now, thought that perhaps the operator, perhaps the operator there, could do this better and would be more involved in billion-dollar public procurements, that would suddenly be in a rather difficult situation. You do realize that I was the mayor of the biggest district of the capital at a certain time, that there is an amazing situation there, that there is a main road where the BKV goes, there is public transport, the main road is the capital, and otherwise there is a small district road, and there is, say, a bus stop. [[15.10]] How tangled it can be to know who cleans it and who keeps it in hand, a city mayor or a city councilman can talk about it for a long time. Once again, it's a little weird for me, but let's have it. The two really exciting stories, but I would like to say the same here on behalf of my faction, the 2006 LIII. an amendment to the law, in which it is said that, in fact, when such a priority investment is made, there is no need to pay attention to the extent to which the municipal image is protected or to the regulations in the settlement. So it is ergo, which, in my view, is a very important element of the whole local government thing, so that, to some extent, the municipalities can define their own priorities, they can tell what is important, it can be practically overwritten by such a quasi-priority investment or by some kind of state influence. I find this very, very delicate and embarrassing, and believe me, they don't give birth to good things in the end. I don't want to go on that long either. Then there is an amendment to the National Property Act, which virtually allows certain steps to be taken here without a concession contract, without a variety of notices. Trust me, it's not very elegant. So it is not elegant to send in an apparently professional law, an extremely good secretary of state, who is obviously not going to go into political matches here, or I think we are going to try to make everyone believe that we are actually trying to change the rules on the epidemic that will make transport developments unbelievable in the next period, and we are going to put it in this law nicely and elegantly, how the national wealth can be further cut, even if my fellow Members always deny it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, with a painful heart, I say that, although the expos have been very touching, what we have heard is, for our part, to our current knowledge, if we do not receive a reassuring answer, we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-98	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, head speaker of DK, please.
u2020-05-20-99	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to continue with this idea from an uncertain situation, in any case, that you really have a job to do in the process of negotiating such a salad law to address the concerns that have arisen here, because we are in a position to give a different example compared to my colleague Gyula Molnár, when he thought that we didn't know where he was, we don't know what he was doing, but to stir it up, that is for sure. Therefore, this government, Fidesz, has lost its right and the possibility that, in fact, in such very simple circumstances and in many respects, we can view with confidence what you are proposing. One of the reasons for this loss of trust is, of course, what has been raised here several times today, and I always consistently ask you, because you have adopted this law, so that, in particular, such a new situation produced by so many laws can be assessed, and there must be some kind of impact assessment. You have adopted this law, imposed as a law that this is necessary for these laws, and you are ignoring this by order, and are not helping the work that contributes to clarity. Instead, they start to hide the absence of what to say, which, let's just say, is in vain because if they have to face the fact that they do nothing but fall in love with the previous initiative, the 13th month pension, even though you should be dealing with the fourteenth, you can't do it either, but you can't do it at the 13th month, but you can't do it at the same time, and otherwise you won't do it, so let's just say that if you're talking about Ferenc Gyurcsány, then, yes, it was the government that was basically involved in infrastructure creation, which creates opportunities for businesses, which, by the way, are able to build alongside these motorways. In order not to talk about building a bridge yet, you still have a lot of debt in this regard. Well, if you have to consider such trivial things, then I am more concerned about this law, because if I have to say such things, the sky is blue, grass is green, Fidesz is lying. And if that is the case, then there is no doubt that their submission in this regard really leaves you with doubts. Just because it is one of these important decisions, and we are talking a lot about local governments today, and we see that funds are being drawn from there, but new tasks are being deployed there. While it has been a novelty for others that there are a lot more representatives of local governments or representatives with local government experience on this site, and it appears that your ongoing behaviour in this area is certainly worth going around, and you should see, either through an impact assessment, the burden on municipalities now, in addition to their ability to create legal opportunities or legal order through this. I could tell you this story even longer, but I think that in the course of today you should be satisfied with the fact that, after your unprepared submissions, I do not see the possibility or the guarantee that there is certainty that even trivial things can be promoted. Which is why we reserve our right to doubt. In the end, we will see that, by the way, any agreement can be reached either in the reply of the Secretary of State or in your arguments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Gyula Molnár applauds.]]
u2020-05-20-100	Thank you very much. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, will be the lead speaker. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have a very important bill ahead of us, and it is diverse, which concerns one of the most important public services, a huge system, the transport sector. I also draw attention to the fact that there is a very serious salad law here, which is obviously not a single opinion. It is clear that there are a lot of measures in this area, amendments that are necessary, which are eligible, but there are elements that allow me to say very firmly that the LMP fraction will not support it. I do not want to go into the details, I will certainly not describe this law in detail, but I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to have the Secretary of State here again, and I will now ask you a lot more questions than before, and I hope that it will be possible for him to comment not only in the closing words, but also in this debate. I would not agree to debates on transport policy or the development of transport so very seriously, but I could argue here on motorway constructions, especially as regards the situation on the M6 motorway, but I think that we will still need to fight these debates. Here, on the bill, my fellow Members have drawn attention to one point: the possibilities of municipalities and notaries. That alone would be enough for us not to be able to vote in favour of this law. But what I am saying is that here in the depths, and my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs has already referred to this, there are much bigger problems. This in itself is a very serious system problem, which is hard enough to find words for, what a serious challenge and dangers it poses in relation to virtually a strategic sector, personal transport. We know that, unfortunately, a European Union obligation is to open up the market, so to open up the market for intra-Community transport. As I understand it, Hungary has already asked for a two-time extension in order to fulfil this obligation. I don't know exactly when the deadline expires, obviously it'll expire sometime. In any event, this is an obligation that LMP does not agree with. [[15.20]] We can also say that there was a great deal of time for successive governments, as I understand it, that the Bajnai government first requested an extension to open the market, but there was plenty of time for governments to prepare for this market opening. I'm saying we disagree because it's a strategic sector. There are very, very serious risks when cross-border public transport is put on the market, because if it is suddenly affected by the disappearance of those operators who are implementing it, there are inaccessible social and economic consequences. It is quite clear that this is a task for which preparation requires enormous tasks and resources. There is a need to create very serious guarantee conditions in order not to cause serious problems in the market opening process. We can say that the Hungarian government has not completed this preparation in the last ten years. I would add your predecessors didn't do it either, but the Fidesz-KDNP government didn't take these steps either. The long-term promised transport reforms, which the former government also owed, have been lagging behind, and we have even made a professional proposal in the period 2014-18, with which high-ranking pro-government politicians have also agreed professionally. Unfortunately, for some reason, the government has not reached the point of achieving them. Nor has the development of the transport sector been made in such a way that the important player of this, Volán, which is sometimes reorganized, is organised, and is now being prepared for this by an integrated Volán. We could talk very long about how many times it has been said that national bus production will be restarted. It's only been done by clues. But the acquisition of vehicles we have seen in recent years is still short of quality for the Volán company's fleet. In this connection, I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what prospects there are, about what the average age of the fleet is now, and how, in the next period, how, from what sources, with what resources you intend to modernise this, in order to ensure that the Hungarian state-owned transport company is prepared for such a task. We do not see the guarantees that contain guarantees for the most important aspect, transport service, in Hungarian, the service of the travelling public; how exactly, how the transport system will look, who will be the customer, there will be a strong ordering organisation, let us say, a transport association involving local governments, able to ensure that the right frequency, service and others are met. It is quite clear that there are huge problems, huge challenges for rural areas, but if the service of public transport is even worse or weaker than the current extremely bad situation, in Hungarian, the bus network or bus transport will have incomprehensible consequences for rural areas. We do not see the guarantees that the government has designed these. We also do not see measures or guarantees that would affect workers. We know that there is a huge emigration, especially in the transport sector, involving drivers, and that there is insufficient supply. How can we overcome these problems in relation to labour emigration and labour supply and training? Overall, I can say that this preparation has not been completed, and the most important measures I have listed are not even outlined. We think that if we want to establish a transport system that could provide the Hungarian people with a much better system, much better service, with the involvement and use of current financial resources, it would require fundamental measures such as the establishment of transport associations, either nationally or through regional organisation. The point is that the municipalities will be given the right role in this. A single Community transport system should be developed, i.e. an integrated system, where parallels can be transformed to the advantage of spinal networks, on-board functions. An integrated national agenda should be set up, a tariff community should be established and a system of public transport financing should be adapted. We don't see any of that. So, so unprepared for ten years of inaction to run or approach market opening, which is an obligation, an enormous irrational duty on the part of the government. Obviously, this criticism is not for the Secretary of State, it is for the past ten years' absence, and you have not been a State Secretary for Transport in the last ten years. I have already discussed this with one of your predecessors, who is now acting as a Member of Parliament. So I would very much like to know what guarantees they can put into this system for the benefit of the Hungarian people and how they will be able to develop the bus park. I should also mention another huge issue, which I spoke about during the first nearly five-hour debate today, but Mr Orbán did not respond. The Parliament is about to adopt an amendment in the bill on special economic zones that obliges the government and the Parliament to require local governments to finance local community transport for the first time from local business tax. This is, on the one hand, an intervention in municipal autonomy, although we know that it is a very important public service. But it has to be said, it is also a decision that the state will withdraw from the financing, support and price supplement of local public transport. I don't think a lot of people even realize what that's gonna do. There are very few cities or municipalities that are able to manage this in themselves, and this will inevitably have the effect of reducing transport services and putting cities in a very difficult position. Your Minister, Minister Palkovics, received a task from the government at the end of last year, precisely to develop a model of public funding for local public transport. Minister Palkovics was given this task in a government resolution, and I recall that the deadline for fulfilling the task expired at the end of March. I asked Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, what happened, what the Minister did, but I did not get any answer to that. You, on the other hand, are in a ministry, and you may know what Minister Palkovic has succeeded in making on this issue and why such conflicting decisions are taking place. So, on the one hand, as the state sees, the government sees its own task of developing a system of financing local public transport, and on the other hand, they want to withdraw from it with a hussar cut and practically leave the city leaders and city leaders alone. Again, not the municipalities, but the people living in the cities will be the victims of this. I have one last question. A lot of people have talked before me about transport infrastructure, transport development. We heard numbers in the pro-government speeches about how much has happened. I do not wish to go into this for too long, but I would like to ask you a specific question. Speaking of the importance of rural development, the most important elements of the transport system are the lower roads, the network of lower roads. We know that in official statistics, this is not a rumor spread, so there are 17,000 kilometers of national reserved inferior roads, which are classified in the wrong and the wrong category. A significant part of this 17 thousand kilometers of road is no longer possible to renovate, but should be rebuilt. I understand that they have taken on a difficult socialist heritage, because they do, but we can say that since 2010, road conditions have been steadily deteriorating, so the proportion of bad roads and inadequate roads is increasing. Within the framework of the program, the Hungarian villages can only renovate 450 kilometers of the road this year. Well, what about this 17,000 kilometers, which next year will not be 17,000 kilometers, but the Fidesz government will unfortunately increase the proportion of these extremely bad roads every year. Overall, I say that there are a lot of problems with domestic transport, and solutions are not really outlined. We do not see what source and how the government intends to solve this problem. On the other hand, it would be a very important question that any kind of transport reform has been outlined before the government, a reform that would make sense to ensure a much more efficient transport service for the Hungarian public from the sources currently available. Thank you in advance, if you would honor me with your answers.
u2020-05-20-102	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. We now have two-minute speeches, exactly one, at least for the moment. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, please.
u2020-05-20-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Nor am I surprised that Congressman Gyula Molnár does not support the bill. Congressman, you were absolutely right, this bill has nothing to do with the epidemic, it has nothing to do with the control of the epidemic. You were able to meet this bill, its title, for the first time on December 12, 2019 at least, when the government submitted its legislative programme for the spring session, it was included in it. The decisions on the epidemic are, of course, taken by the government, and Parliament meets according to its order, and it was included in the legislative programme even when this salad law was expected, and the secretary and secretary of state had already worked on the preparation of the law, so you knew that even then. [[15.30]] I would like to respond to Mr Varju's words, as he demonstrated that Ferenc Gyurcsány was the prime minister of motorway and bridge construction. He left the tunnel out of the list that the former Prime Minister also built it, and left out from the list that, as a result of his blessed activities, the Hungarian taxpayers suffered HUF 2863 billion damage to the M5 and M6 motorways during the PPP contracts due to the harmful construction. Even last year, we paid HUF 110 billion for this construction only as an availability fee, my fellow Members, over the last seven years the amount that we have thrown out of the window is completely unnecessary because of the fact that such harmful contracts were concluded, and all of this was justified by the fact that there was no need to borrow, but in these years the Hungarian government debt has increased to the greatest extent, so this money has disappeared somewhere. So Ference Gyurcsány, as the patron saint of motorways in this Parliament, seems a little shady to me, especially as I think this HUF 2863 billion is very lacking in the Hungarian budget and has been absent in recent years; it could have been used for a number of meaningful purposes instead of pouring it into the cash register of companies entrusted by Gyurcsány. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-104	Thank you. Congressman László Keresztes Lóránt, LMP.
u2020-05-20-105	Thank you, Mr. President. It's just a very short reaction. I agree with the criticisms about motorway construction, the previous motorway construction, especially the M6 motorway and the tunnels, the construction of completely unnecessary tunnels, but I think that since Congressman Nacsa voted yesterday for the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, you have the least reason and the right to criticise this measure. This thousand billion HUF will be missed from many places, especially when an economic crisis unfolds, especially in the area of job creation. The day before yesterday, you announced a package of measures, a job creation programme, which aims to create 70 000 new jobs by HUF 80 billion. We can say that this is an important measure - let's say it was two or three months late, but it is still an important measure, but at the same time you cannot spend more money to create Hungarian jobs, because this is what 140 billion will be spent on this year to develop the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. And that's an outrage! Specifically, you have sacrificed 125 thousand Hungarian jobs on the altar of great power interests in China. We can argue here, however, about how much there is in this year's budget, and the figures here are not quite certain, that 140 billion or 80 billion, but what I am saying is that if you wanted to spend 5 billion forints on the development of this railway, that would also be a lot, because there is no justification or justification for its return in any way. So the criticisms about some or many of the actions of the Balliberal period preceding you are entirely justified, but you no longer have the right to say so. Thank you.
u2020-05-20-106	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] Secretary of State, please.
u2020-05-20-107	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you, Mr Sándor Hadházy and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, for the supporting contributions. Indeed, many people have a lot of work to do in 13 not by accident in 13 legislative proposals. I would respond to the most important things in order to make sure that the problem is known in other light. Thank you very much for agreeing in the Passenger Transport Act with the wording of the unpunished record of taxi drivers, as we are talking about the safety of everyone here. I think it is very important to respond to what the Hungarian road carriers, i.e. the representatives of carriers, the MKFE and the NiT have said. The Hungarian government has already taken very serious steps to protect and protect Hungarian road freight forwarders, with the appointment of a Prime Minister's Commissioner, the project through which we simplified the conditions for driver training, reduced the age in relation to domestic traffic, partly or entirely assumed the cost of training in order to reduce labour shortages and other benefits for Hungarian carriers. We are fighting with all our energy with other countries, along with the transport wallets of other countries, to try to mitigate the so-called mobility package, as set out by Brussels, and thus the very harmful and detrimental provisions of the mobility package. This activity is also recognised by the transporters' interest representatives. The extent of the toll in a country is not entirely the decision of a country or its government, but the definition of the level of the fees can be based on the Eurovignette Directive, as set out by the European Union, and this definition and the method of calculation also includes how much the country spends on road construction, road maintenance. If automatic inflation monitoring is achieved, it will be an absolute predictable method for users, and I would add: Polish, Lithuanian and Romanian carriers will also be able to increase the toll to our country, so this will not be a market disadvantage for Hungarians, but the fee revenue that will be realised will be used for the development and operation of the domestic road network. I believe that no one doubts that the development of the domestic road network has been significant in recent years through the road programme or other programmes. The quality of the domestic road network and the side roads has also been raised. The road network of Hungary is 32,000 kilometers, 31 thousand of which are managed by the Hungarian Public Road, the remaining thousand kilometers are in the operation of the concession companies. Since 2010, 5500 kilometers of domestic budget resources have been used, and this complex road renovation programme, the Hungarian village programme, is all ongoing, is being financed by the EU-funded TOP programmes, so I think that every year the road network is improving dynamically and the number of elements where transport is difficult is decreasing. I would add that, given the current funding and technical capacity of 32,000 kilometres, it cannot be fixed in two years, this will take a longer time. With regard to the design of motorways: if we are planning a greenfield investment somewhere, then a detailed feasibility study will first be carried out with trail plans, environmental studies, social debates, taking into account the views of the affected population, industry and other civil society organisations, and when the final trail is set out, then authorisation procedures and then construction can be carried out. These roads are generally awaited by the public, by industry, and we do not want to see preparations for 10-15 years, as they were before; there should be a legal basis for a properly prepared investment taking into account social opinions as soon as possible, so we would like to eliminate tower clocks during the authorisation procedure. The opening of the bus and coach markets is indeed an EU obligation, and the European Union Directive sets out that from 1 January 2020 only Hungary's request for two years of delay can be awarded in the form of tenders, and we have received it. My colleagues and I are working on the preparation of this, and we have turned to Parliament with our bill of amendment, because this work involves four laws: the public procurement law, the concession law, the property law and the passenger transport law. The passenger transport law, which is the mapping of the EU directive in Hungary, defines three ways to award this service, among which the service concession seems to be optimal, and we have chosen it. Another form would also be where the winner would receive a fixed fee after conducting an application, but this would not encourage him to improve the quality of service in any way, as he would always receive the contracted amount regardless of the quality, from the schedule. It is therefore the service concession in which the winner is involved in risk-taking, and we would like to implement this form. The property law must be amended because, in the light of the provisions of the concession law, we do not want the winner to set up a concession company, so whoever wins this service can already award this service in the case of the modified form of the property law. I would find it difficult to believe that the Volán would be excluded from this proposal, because, as the Member mentioned, it has a very serious number of buses, which have recently undergone considerable modernisation, and we see more and more modern and more inclusive vehicles on the roads in order to fit the right vehicle into passenger traffic. [[15.40]] Our application requires quality of service, we will define SLA levels, there will be requirements for the age and average age of vehicles, and we will define the timetable requirements. It has been possible to give an opinion on the agenda in all areas of the country, requests, and I understand that there is no problem with the structure of the timetable at present. There will be a strong customer organisation, who will say exactly what he wants in the interests of the travelling public and in the interests of the state, because, as Mr President said, we are still seeing a significant number of parallel transports today. As I mentioned earlier, the government declared that public transport is part of the backbone network, the railway, and the bus service that brings passengers to the railway network and where there is no railway will, of course, be provided by bus and coach services. I believe that we are developing a Community transport system that fully meets both the legal requirements and the needs of the travelling public. The need to compete was not invented by Hungary; it is likely that we would have been able to do so without competitive competition in the years to come in the course of transport, which is an obligation of the European Union. So here the amendment of the laws is only intended to ensure that this tender can be successfully technically implemented. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, As announced at the beginning of the meeting, I would like to inform you once again that yesterday the T/10526 ban on the placing on the market of certain disposable plastics. The rapporteur for the proposal for a regulation No 1 has withdrawn it. I would remind you that this proposal was part of our agenda adopted on Monday. I would like to inform you that today, in line with the withdrawal, the general debate on the bill will not take place. The amended agenda has been published, which is available on the parliamentary IT network. Next up, Honourable Parliament, the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. a general debate on the amendment of the law until closure. Government referral T/10524. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-05-20-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, One of the priorities of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is the protection of consumers, Hungarian families and companies that follow the law. In the current legislative framework, the portfolio acts with continuous presence and regular controls to eliminate misleading commercial practices and to eliminate dangerous products. The amendment to the Consumer Protection Act before you strengthens and broadens the possibilities of consumer control for consumers and decent businesses. Following the adoption of the amendment, the Consumer Protection Authority will carry out the inspection not only against the retailer and seller in direct contractual relations with the consumer, but also, inter alia, to the wholesaler, the warehouse operator and the supplier, take the necessary steps in the event of an infringement. Dear House, Experience over the past period has shown that there is a need to extend the scope of the Consumer Protection Authority in certain areas. At present, the Consumer Protection Authority has competence to deal with the legal relationship between an undertaking that sells or provides services directly to the consumer and the consumer, but it is also appropriate to give more scope to carry out the proceedings in relation to an economic entity as defined in the Civil Procedure Act. This does not include organisations supervised by the Hungarian National Bank responsible for financial consumer protection. The amendment also sets out the concept of supply chain, which also increases the effectiveness of consumer protection actions, as the Consumer Protection Authority may act against any entity in the supply chain that has committed or might have committed the infringement, provided that the consumer is the ultimate actor. The amendment does not change the fact that the Consumer Protection Authority exercises its powers in the supply chain for non-food products only covered by the Consumer Protection Act. Following this amendment, the procedure can be conducted faster and more effectively and unfair, abusive market behaviour can be eliminated. Dear House, Currently, the Consumer Protection Authority can only carry out checks in shops, webshops and apps where the consumer purchases or uses services. The Consumer Protection Authority may then act against wholesalers, warehouses, logistics service providers and manufacturers by means of a legislative amendment to the Parliament if they are actors in the supply chain, i.e. have a direct or indirect impact on the production, storage, placing on the market and use of products intended for sale to consumers. At present, these actors can only be declared by the authority. We consider it important and appropriate for the Consumer Protection Authority to be able to access more widely defined premises, such as warehouses, to know documents, to check working procedures and to sample them free of charge, during the monitoring and procedure of supply chain operators. In particular, for reasons of serious public interest, if justified by the protection of consumers' health and financial interests, the amendment allows the Consumer Protection Authority, with the prior authorisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to enter the closed area, building and room, even in the absence of the rightholder, in the area of closed properties, such as business premises and operating premises. Of course, this can only be done with respect for fundamental rights, in compliance with strict warranty standards. Such a requirement shall include, inter alia, the welfare of the data subjects and the time limitation of the verification. Dear Parliament, By amending the law, consumers and decent businesses can expect more effective protection. Procedures for eliminating unfair market practices can be shortened as consumer protection can be targeted where the infringement occurs. On these grounds and on the basis of the introductory statement, on the basis of the facts, I would like to ask you to support the bill later in the debate and at the very end of the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by the lead speaker, Honourable Parliament. Congressman Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of Fidesz, is the first. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 1997 CLV on consumer protection before us. T/10524. The objective pursued by the legislative proposal is to strengthen the Consumer Protection Authority's control framework for consumers and fair, compliant businesses. According to the proposal, the Consumer Protection Authority should be given powers to carry out the procedure in any event, even against a wide range of different entities, such as companies, cooperatives, branches of foreign companies in Hungary, individual companies or self-employed persons, where the consumer is the ultimate recipient of the sale. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also well known that since our accession to the European Union, there has been a fundamental turnaround in the system of consumer protection that existed previously. The free movement of goods and services has made it a crucial task to monitor the safety of goods and services and to ensure the protection of consumers' financial interests. At the same time, progress continues to create new challenges and new tasks for the public consumer protection institution system, for economic operators, for interest protection, interest representation, social organisations and, of course, for consumers themselves. [[15.50]] The objective of an effective consumer policy must be to ensure the proper and effective functioning of the single market. The aim is, on the one hand, to guarantee consumers' rights to traders and, on the other, to provide increased protection for vulnerable consumers. According to the bill, the Consumer Protection Authority, in relation to measures to strengthen the Consumer Protection Authority, can carry out control activities not only against the retailer and seller directly connected with the consumer, but, as we have just heard from the State Secretary, for example, with the wholesaler, the storekeeper. If you experience an infringement of these checks, you may act against them. It is also important to point out that consumer protection controls entities only and exclusively in a supply chain with the consumer as the final player. On this basis, the Consumer Protection Authority can therefore also deal with an economic operator who has committed the infringement, not only with whom the consumer has entered into a contractual relationship. The amendment also gives the power, under the control of the entities, to conduct an official procedure against them, i.e. to deal with wholesalers, warehouses, logistics service providers and manufacturers, provided that the actors in the supply chain have a direct or indirect impact on the production, storage, placing on the market or use of the product for sale to consumers. Currently, the Consumer Protection Authority is only in shops, webshops or even what is most fashionable now is the XXI. In our 20th century world, you can control mobile applications where the consumer buys or uses some kind of service. It is also important to point out that the Consumer Protection Authority may enter the premises, know documents, check technological work processes and, if necessary, take samples during its inspection activities and procedures. Another important element of the proposal is to enable the Consumer Protection Authority, subject to prior authorisation by the prosecutor, to carry out an on-the-spot inspection despite the wishes of the person staying in the closed area, building and room, in the event of a threat to the physical integrity, health or health of a wide range of consumers, of particular serious public interest, as well as of a significant financial disadvantage to a wide range of consumers. Dear Parliament, While we are talking about consumer protection, it is important and worth mentioning in the context of the bill that there is a need for strong action against unfair commercial practices in the event of a coronal virus epidemic. It is important to highlight this because unfortunately, in recent times, there has been an increase in the skills and fraud associated with the coronal virus, which, in most cases, is an Internet trade. With this in mind, it is very welcome that authorities' experts have been actively monitoring both traditional and online trade for several months in view of the risk of coronal virus. The purpose of the checks is to find those profiteers who want to gain extra profit by taking advantage of the fear, potential indiscretion or bona fideness of their customers. In this regard, the Consumer Protection Authority's experts have already monitored hundreds of shops and hundreds of online stores at national level. In the case of outstanding cases, by law, the authority will also initiate proceedings for unfair commercial practices, for which a fine of up to HUF 500 000 can be imposed. I would like to say here that, unfortunately, in Somogy County, in my constituency, in the 4th constituency of Somogy, based in Siófok, I have received several requests from the people in the region, and I am also pleased to report that, to my knowledge, the competent authorities responded quickly and professionally to consumer complaints and to various notifications. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the consumer protection law before us contains a number of important points, but it also aims to strengthen the consumer protection authority's control options, precisely for consumers and fair, compliant businesses. To sum up, it is important to emphasise that, by adopting the bill, consumers and honest businesses can expect more effective protection, and that unfair market practices can be removed more quickly, as consumer protection can be targeted where the infringement itself has occurred. In light of what has been said, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, lead speaker of the Jobbik faction. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-113	Mr President, Dear House, After an exhausting first item on the agenda, which generated four and a half hours of debate, it is not expected that there will be strong political debates in this House, especially on a proposal for which we have been chewing on the ears of the government for a number of years. That is why I am a little sad that there is something left in this proposal that I cannot identify with 100%. The fact that controls can also be carried out with the actors in the supply chain is absolutely beneficial; I do not say that it is an innovation, because the world has already started in this direction, but it should be welcomed that similar amendments can be made in Hungary. In the case of warehouses, wholesalers, investigations are essential, and so far the fact that when the Hungarian product or logo was imported into the fruit from abroad, in many cases the people of the authorities were unable to take any meaningful action against these very harmful processes, and then we all ate that particular brush. When I want to put Hungarian fruit in front of my little boy, I am not happy either if this experiment fails because the right methods and opportunities for consumer protection have not been available so far. I am also pleased that technological processes can now also be monitored. All of this has been discussed at the late Consumer Protection Committee meetings between 2010 and 2014, and I am very sorry that it took so many years to implement it, but it is better to welcome it later than never. However, there is something in this proposal that I myself find very difficult to identify with, especially in the light of the governance of Fidesz-KDNP. In order to be able to go into an officially closed area with a prior prosecutor's permit, it is controversial, but there may not be such a problem, although there are reasons for it and against it. However, if the affected location is a private apartment, then there we may have very serious and dark thoughts. So if I can't support this proposal, the only reason I don't want to let that particular spirit out of the bottle is because I don't suspect consumers in this regard, because they have my confidence not 100 percent, but 101 percent; not even the ordinary Members of Parliament who defend this proposal. I understand that there are small companies, micro-enterprises, where private housing may be indicated as customer service or warehouse, but I believe that the legislator has the opportunity to go in other directions. It is not certain that a micro enterprise can otherwise be forced to rent its own office building or part of an office building. I don't mean to say that this is the way, but you have to admit that after ten years of government, when you can take people for Facebook comments, and it's just an overreaction in the news, we treat all similar intentions with suspicion at least. It's not a complete sweep, it's a rejection on my part, but for suspicion, please don't insult me. Once again, with regard to the possibility of checking stocks, the proposal should be welcomed. In the case of numerous large-scale Black Friday-type actions, we have noticed that only one or two dozen types of goods have been stored and that certain distributors have offered inability discounts, which may have been shown to be impossible at the beginning, and that they run out, and that the supply that revolves around the word is spinning, and then quite simply their contractual commitments have not been fulfilled by these companies and companies; and that many areas of consumer protection could be adventured. I welcome something between consumer protection movements, such as the increased monitoring of the five-minute rule for telephone operators, which is not strictly the item on the agenda, but a good direction. In other areas, I would expect much more decisive action, which, after restricting product presentations, is, where appropriate, a complete ban on this genre, and this idea is close to me, and I could support such a proposal. But staying strictly at the paper in front of us, I must note that it is a little late, but I consider it a good thing that lies before us. This is the only concern I have, which may still be addressed at this stage of the debate. To go into an officially closed area with the prosecutor's permission: I think that's justified. [[16.00]] Going to the apartment to check it out: it's an opinionary. In favour of it, and against it, there are arguments that I think need to be discussed, both in the general debate and then we will look at the amendments that will be made to the paperwork and paperwork before us. Depending on this, a fair professional position can be established. I would also like to express my joy at the fact that this debate may indeed remain a professional one, and perhaps a compromise will be outlined in the end by removing one or two negative or dark spots. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-05-20-114	Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, lead speaker at KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-05-20-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The transformation of traditional and online trade requires more detailed regulation of consumer protection controls and an extension of the range of organisations that can be controlled. That is what the bill before us is about. Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member have also touched upon the definition and importance of the concept of supply chain in the bill, so I do not wish to reiterate this, but I would like to point out that the Consumer Protection Authority is not only under Article 2 of the Consumer Protection Act. With an undertaking within the meaning of point (b) of Section b) of the Act on Civil Procedure, it is also appropriate to give more extensive powers to carry out the procedure in relation to the entities specified in the Act on Civil Procedure. The amendment also gives the power, under the control of the entities, to conduct an official procedure against them. This has already been affected, i.e. the Consumer Protection Authority may also act against wholesalers, warehouses, logistics service providers and manufacturers, provided that supply chain operators have a direct or indirect impact on the production, storage, placing on the market and use of products intended for sale to consumers. I would like to stress that the Consumer Protection Authority exercises its competence with regard to the supply chain covered by the Consumer Protection Act. This means that only non-food, non-food products will continue to be controlled and launched procedures. It is also worth mentioning, and I would like to point out to my fellow Members that the declaration of the right of the Consumer Protection Authority to free sampling is also an extremely important provision in the Consumer Protection Act, which increases the effectiveness of the control of business organisations, since the General Administrative Regulation only provides for the possibility of sampling. It is also important to emphasise that the authority can not only enter the storage room, but also control tools, labelling and packaging processes. This was also affected by the fact that, in practice, there have been indications that, for example, a Hungarian label has been affixed to the packaging of fruit imported from abroad. I think it is important to highlight the addition of the law to the particularly serious public interest, for example, in the event of a threat to a wide range of consumers with a significant financial disadvantage, allowing the Consumer Protection Authority, with the prior authorisation of the prosecutor, to conduct an on-site inspection by opening a closed area, building, despite the wishes of the person staying there. The authority may also carry out the verification if it is in possession of a prior prosecutor's licence and in the presence of an official witness, if the closed building or room is intended for housing at the same time. In fact, experience has shown that in many cases, businesses do customer service activities in private homes or function as a store of webshops. It is important to point out that inspections in the case of private dwellings can therefore only be carried out on sound grounds and in compliance with strict warranty standards. I would point out here that, when carrying out the verification, it is necessary to take account of the fact that the person other than the person concerned is only affected to the extent necessary and that the check should preferably be carried out between the 8th and 18th hours of the day, and to ensure that the verification does not disclose the circumstances of the person's private life which are not subject to control, as well as his or her personal data. Ladies and gentlemen, Protecting consumers in the commercial situation associated with the spread of the corona virus is a particularly topical issue, while preventing them from being harmed. I believe that, under the Consumer Protection Act, the extension of the scope of official controls, under the introduction of appropriate guarantee rules, will make it possible to protect consumers even more effectively in these circumstances, and therefore the KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-20-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP, lead speaker, please.
u2020-05-20-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Let me start a little further away, and they'll understand why I'm saying this. We lived or grew up in a country, although there are many young ladies and gentlemen in the room, but I am the age group who remembers that the consumer had very little right; they were practically vulnerable in the various situations. It was a deficit economy. In fact, people had to be friends with the seller, trying to gain his trust to get their hands on currencies, for example, from the counter. And believe me, even though it's been 20 to 30 years, it's obviously something my generation carries in itself, but in some ways it's passed on. So it would be an amazing task of Hungarian public life, Hungarian intellectuals, Hungarian politics to achieve the kind of awareness, the kind of vulnerability that this profession, this world, could create as quickly as possible. And from this point of view, I would very much like to be able to talk much more, much more thoroughly, much more openly about this issue, and I would also like to take the line a little further, that perhaps at the moment when this authority ceased to exist in 2016, at the moment when the political public address was removed, because there is no such committee, when it comes to a department of development, or later to the ministry of new name, I would like you to believe that the feeling that this may, for some reason, be unappreciated has been raised, and that the kind of vulnerability in ordinary people who get involved in such a situation, rather than slowing down, rather than getting stronger. So if we have a responsibility, if we have a job in this area, it is precisely to talk about it as much as possible, to try to create a situation where, indeed, the supplier, the trader, is giving something, and everything must be done to ensure that consumers, citizens, are given the best possible service and are ready and able to defend their own rights. So from this point of view, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that it is right and welcome that we are dealing with this law. Now, let's separate these epidemiology speeches you're doing. Obviously, this is the place, obviously not a very large change, so we would like to say that we fully agree that this is on the agenda. On the whole, we agree that we should go one way inside, and even go more further into the segment where we can not only look at the part where the trade itself takes place, but we can definitely go further. I will tell you in a masculine manner, I am not as forgiving as my previous opposition colleague said that the part of this thing that, obviously, with a mandate from the prosecution, you can go to all kinds of places with particular attention, I will tell you in a masculine manner, I do not understand exactly, and I do not see very much the place for another authority to be authorized to take care of people. I think that consumer protection is a more humane authority in this regard. Now let's just leave it as a joke that, by the way, Social Services has the first-rate authority, so it's funny that these consumer protection things are there, and they can now slowly get shock and handcuffs, so this will be the next step. There's the NAV, there's the Nebih, there's the police, there's the authorities that, if you feel the consumer inspector or anyone that you need to take any type of action, you should use them because their procedures are regulated. [[16.10]] I don't have to tell you KDNP here, I don't have to tell you that we really do, we swear, and we believe that every rule will be followed, that it's a humane procedure, that it doesn't affect the third person. It's also part of the law, you can go into a place where the company doesn't own the property, by the way. So from this point of view, there is almost an unlimited opportunity. Once again, in this 4-5 page, couple of paragraph laws, it is not possible to regulate that the consumer inspector, who from now on is authorised by a prosecutor, can enter somewhere, what rules he is obliged to comply with. While at the NAV, the police have all these rules regulated in the way established over the past decades. What action needs to be taken, what it can do, is not regulated in this case. So I'm gonna say this again, I'm not gonna argue about the private apartment, but I'm gonna argue about the principle, or at least we're gonna argue, not me, we're gonna argue that this isn't where we think it belongs. Yes, we need more effective action, yes, we need to broaden the opportunities for consumer protection, but not in the direction of creating another authority who, once again, would be entitled to take this type of action. If the consumer protector feels that he should use those who specialize in this and are empowered to do so. It's funny, there's something about this law that makes everyone think of the fruit that's been tagged, and I'll tell you, it's what's been written for me, and it's really, it's totally unparalleled here. If someone wants to play games, the Hungarian system can be played out today. Well, I'm glad you can close some kind of loophole. So for our part, we say that we are not so forgiving, that we will not support this in the vote. Obviously, we are excited about the arguments expressed in the debate and about the amendments that we may or may not have, but for our part, because we can support the basic intention, but the concrete ones are more difficult and we are likely to abstain. Thank you very much. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2020-05-20-118	Thank you, Congressman. I, too, welcome once again my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh.
u2020-05-20-119	[[At first, there's no sound.]] The microphone got so excited about the subject... Mr. President! Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Late, but at least there's a substance in front of us. It's the usual fidesz technique: suddenly you want to make a party, the Fidesz, a consumer defender. We've seen this before, that's what happened when you guys suddenly wanted to be environmentalists, but everything like this usually falls off, and there's some ulterior motive that turns out, because today has proven that your environmental protection is only interesting, it's valid as long as you can stand up and say it. As soon as a bill has to be tabled, you have withdrawn the bill that hundreds of thousands of people have supported, which is what everyone expected. If it were important for you to protect the Earth, our future, then the bill on disposable plastic would not have been withdrawn without any justification. You're suddenly trying to be a consumer defender. Please, we shouldn't have been constantly demoting that area in the last few years, abolishing the independent authority, abolishing that committee in the Parliament. Why would they do that? Why don't you take this back, please? And then they'll put you in the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Which word do you put this on? Where does this fit, innovation or technology? Is this the department where you really need to put this thing? Maybe there's another department that doesn't fit that well, this State Department, it would be normal for you almost anywhere else, if it really mattered to you, that this organization would function properly, normally. Such a Consumer Protection Authority Act does well to protect consumers and decent businesses at the same time. It has been said here that the epidemic has shown in particular that there is work to be done. We agree, it would have been good, and it may not be too late if the respected authority and ministry finally woke up and looked at the price of masks and said that yes, there is a situation where in the interests of consumers, in terms of masks, there is a need to start, and it cannot be allowed to ask vulnerable consumers for multiple costs, who want to save their lives, ladies and gentlemen, to buy masks. You, on the other hand, let the price of the mask rise to the stars. You went to the Lehel Square market only when opposition representatives rebelled that, please, you will give me a kilo of chicken breast for 2700 forints. They didn't do anything. We must not be a consumer defender in Parliament, honourable Members, but we must go outside and make order in this country. You are unable to put a comprehensive regulation on the table, which actually considers all the problems and provides a long-term solution. You destroyed the organization, integrated it into a place it had nothing to do with. This should have been resolved in a way that would somehow be an organisation above the ministries, since it should work in close cooperation with all ministries. But I go on: only if it works with close civil cooperation and control can any kind of consumer protection work well. However, in recent times, you have not helped this work, but, please, you have slaughtered civil society organisations without whom there is no, no, once again, no normal consumer protection. What you are doing is a category of window puppet; it is impossible to achieve effective consumer protection without strengthening civil society organisations. They talk about European problems, about repacking, about apps, about websites. Be kind, at last start a normal, meaningful cooperation with the European Union, and have a normal European consumer protection cooperation that they actually support. But you are always scolding the European Union. Then, however, they will not be able to protect the Hungarian people, if they have nothing else to do, only everything to serialize and insult the European Union. In substance, normal consumer protection in an open Europe can only be achieved if you establish a proper cooperation. What you've started is that in some ways you're trying to broaden some of the rules, there are several areas where the direction is right. The question is, of course, that you want to punish me by strengthening the regulation, get more money, or make the market competitors of certain fidesz oligarchs impossible. It doesn't matter what your purpose is. Protecting consumers and protecting decent companies is a commendable thing. In the past ten years, my fellow Members have spoken for a long time about the protection of the private residence, it will be damaged, it will become uncontrollable, it will give Fidesz a driver's license, and in the past ten years, you have proved that if you receive any driver's license, where you can enter the interests of private people, you can undermine their legal rights, you will do everything. As my better fellow Member has said, you take people and spread your hands based on a Facebook post. The Minister of Justice will spread his hand, smiling! Please, we don't want you to do the same with regard to consumer protection, to enter private homes, and then one of the ministers will spread his hand, in this case, the Minister of Innovation, and say that I'm sorry, well, it was a little overzealous. We don't want to give you a mandate where you can appeal to such little overzealous things. We want you to provide more resources to this organization. Do not give more money to the Tao during a crisis or an epidemic, but strengthen this authority, strengthen it so that the authority is also stronger and civil society organisations are stronger and more cooperative with EU consumer protection. Please accept these things. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-05-20-120	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the list of speakers that have been notified. I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann.
u2020-05-20-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to some of the things that have been said in the debate, and I am pleased that it is essentially a debate in a professional direction, as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, rightly mentioned. I am also pleased to see the opposition's basic intention, I note from the comments, that it basically considers it a good direction and supports it, even in the most rigorous speech by the lead speaker of DK, there was an expression that they could see the right direction on several points in this initiative, even in spite of all the other criticisms. So thank you, too, for I think that this legislation is really trying to protect both businesses and consumers. [[16.20]] On the other hand, I have also tried to look into this private residence issue, and I have obviously had a number of questions about it. My fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, has already said a lot about this regulation, and I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these checks can only be carried out on sound grounds and in compliance with strict warranty standards, but let us not forget that in recent years there have been a number of cases where, where appropriate, dangerous products have been produced in a private apartment or even in a garage, such as the head of a given business, even with his own hands. More news material and media reports could be recalled from past times about these cases. And in these cases, too, I think that we all, the decision-makers, should act responsibly in order to protect consumers, because they may even be affected by health damage. It is also common experience that these companies actually operate customer service activities or webshop stores in private homes. So I think that, in such cases, I do not want to repeat my fellow Member's comments, during a given period, possibly only with the involvement of those involved and, of course, with the protection of their personal data, without harming their privacy, without endangering it, there is always a forward-looking benefit. I also asked what experience has shown so far that this means about how much control at the annual level for private apartments. I would not dramatize this so much, but, of course, because of the concerns, I have also looked into it: this is a total of one or two audits on a national level, so it is not a large quantity. If this were not the case, the opposition could attack the government by not doing everything possible to protect human lives or to effectively control dangerous products. Allow me to share two personal experiences with you. A few weeks ago, from my own constituency, I didn't want to explain this in detail in the keynote speakership, and they came to me from Somogy County's 4th constituency, Siófok's area, to call them on the phone with a very pleasant and friendly voice, and, by the way, they presented themselves to a state health institution, and they offered medicinal products and vitamins, precisely on the basis of the coronal virus epidemic, that it is now very important to strengthen the immune system and the rest. Such orders were also made by a good - faithd, perhaps uninformed, customer, and when one of the complainants sent me this complaint, it turned out that he did not receive the product they promised him. He received a product of the same name, but did not receive the product, and was otherwise given this package in the absence of a Hungarian language description and information, so he didn't know exactly what it was that he was supposed to be taking, and what exactly it would be good for him. So I think that in such cases it is absolutely important that consumer protection be able to respond effectively in the future, and once again: it was not a public body, but rather, as it was subsequently searched back, traced back by telephone number, sender, it was a private company that sent this package. And my other experience is personal. Between 1997 and 2010, I worked in the entrepreneurial sphere, and this is the time when exactly the left was in government in Hungary; so let's not forget the state of consumer protection and conditions in Hungary at that time. I was active in a retail undertaking, and in many cases it was true that the retail undertaking, namely the seller, who had direct contact with the consumer, the end user, the buyer, had to cope with the small business even if, say, the wholesaler, the distributor or the importer had made a mistake, or had done something wrong either in terms of ensuring the conditions for the product, whether it was imported or in terms of consumer safety. This is why it is very important to complement this amendment to the Consumer Protection Act with this passage, because I think that we are protecting the SME sector on the one hand, and that we can also effectively protect consumers with this step. I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh for a two-minute comment.
u2020-05-20-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Indeed, there is a situation where we should also go into a private apartment in order to protect the interests of consumers, but, as my fellow Member Molnár said, there is already a possibility. Well, use the proper organs for this thing, you don't have to put another driver's license where it doesn't belong. There is now a normal legal opportunity to do so, to use it, and to remove this almost indescribable authority from this law. And I think, by the way, it's probably possible to say that it's not like this one or two times at national level, because it shows that maybe we should strengthen this organization a little bit, just be legal. We leave normal organs to work, consumer protection is asking for it, and those organisations are doing this thing. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-124	Thank you, Congressman. Fellow Members! I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, to respond to what has been said.
u2020-05-20-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the pleasant and comfortable position that, in fact, my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, has answered all the questions I would have liked to have responded to, but let me complete his speech. If we decoded the populist political messages from Dr. Lajos Oláh's comment, in the case that DK supports this bill, he acknowledges the importance and necessity of this, but would not do as we propose in this bill. Of course, accepting that you have the right to give these opinions here, I have given you the example of mulching because it was you who often abused people with the right, with the means of law. It was you who, for example, conducted a police force against peaceful protestors. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Gyula, two days ago!]] Don't assume that otherwise what you do or can do will be done by someone else. No one does, we are bound by the law, and they can never give an example that anyone on our side has abused the law at any time. You did this in the autumn of 2006, unfortunately in a very shameful way. I feel a little uncomfortable when I say these sentences, because I was hoping, in connection with Dániel Z. Karpát's speech, that a professional debate would emerge from this debate. Thank God, most of this has happened anyway, but in order to respond to another point, or to say a few sentences about efficiency and control, I would like to say that last year, for example, there were about 7,000 inspections carried out by the authorities; not a little, 7,000 have been carried out. Roughly 1450 types of products have been examined, and 1800 on-the-spot checks have been carried out in addition to 2,400 on-the-spot checks, so the authority has done a huge job, which, I think, has resulted in, despite the fact that even if there is a bad example, everyone can look into their memories and perhaps find a bad example, for the most part, consumers on the Hungarian market, be it a web shop, be it a different market, be it a different market opportunity, supply option, feel safe. For example, I would like to highlight the actions and the warnings and calls that the authority is making in the rush of shopping before a major holiday, our ministry is doing to ensure that everyone buys with appropriate caution and to monitor the calls that our authorities are making in order to see which goods and which chapters should be taken into account. And while I am bringing up efficiency and cooperation here, in response to the speech by MEPs from MSZP and DK, MEPs Molnár and Oláh: we have very effective cooperation with civil society organisations. Last year, if I remember correctly, and perhaps this year too, we support civil society organisations who work in the field of consumer protection in cooperation with the authorities for the benefit of consumers by about HUF 80 million. [[16.30]] So, on the one hand, efficiency is properly ensured by the authorities, by the people working there, on the other hand, there is the civil cooperation between the authorities and the civilians that you are missing before a speech, and on the third, there is effectiveness, as I have said, because the authority is carrying out checks in the order of thousands of times as a result of very serious work, and, thanks to God, perhaps thanks to these checks, there is not much of an objection, as between 10 and 15 percent, depending on whether they are looking at an on-the-spot check or whether they are looking at a web check. I think it can be said that this is a good result when, unfortunately, there are examples and there are such things as gently expressing myself, experimenting people who are trying to get rich by playing the law and the authorities and human good faith. So, after Mr Witzmann has answered his questions, I have also tried to confirm his speech, thank you for the statements of support, the comments in support, and for the answers to questions that may still give rise to doubts, by putting aside these doubts, to take a positive approach to the issue, the amendment, and to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the proposal to amend Act C of 2003 on electronic communications in relation to the obligation to transpose the Directive establishing the European Electronic Communications Code until its closure is now now in order. Government referral T/10525. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-05-20-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In September 2016, the European Commission published its proposal for a European Electronic Communications Code in order to encourage the deployment of high-capacity broadband networks and thus increase the competitiveness of the European Economic Area as a whole. The proposal was conducted by the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament in a series of multi-annual negotiations, resulting in the adoption by the European Parliament at the end of 2018 of the Directive revising and re-regulatory the previous regulatory framework for communications, the Communication Code. The Code should then be transposed by Member States into their national legal systems. The primary objective of the bill before you is therefore to ensure that Hungary fulfils this obligation of harmonisation. The Code makes comprehensive amendments to the Hungarian Electronic Communications Act in order to strengthen competition between service providers, encourage investment and strengthen consumer rights. Dear Parliament, The recent revision of the regulatory framework for communications took place a long time ago, with technological progress since then, the transformation of market operating models and changes in consumer demand requiring new regulation. However, it is very important that the bill not only responds adequately to global changes, but also responds adequately to the development and needs of the domestic communications sector over the past period. This work would have been unimaginable without the involvement of industry players, whose involvement in the preparation of the legislative amendment had already taken place naturally in the initial period. Dear Parliament, Hungarian communications infrastructure is at the forefront of the world. This performance is the result of the development decisions of the last decade, since telecommunications is characterised by long-term thinking. Our infrastructure shows its future stability that the domestic communications infrastructure has been able to serve, for example, the increase in the load that has never been experienced in recent weeks or months without reaching the limit of its performance. This is a significant part of why we have not been forced to stop the operation of the country as a result of the pandemic, to ensure proper functioning even under restrictions and to ensure contact between persons, to enable work, to learn and to communicate with the family. 20 or 30 years ago, that would probably have been quite different. Dear Parliament, Today we can discuss a bill that basically determines the next decade in the communications sector and in the industries that are building on it. The bill builds on established and functioning institutions, but it also brings important and long-awaited fundamental changes. One of the main novelties of the new regulation is that it defines broadband as a basic service, using the term communications, as a universal service. This means that it will now be laid down by law that broadband at affordable prices, at the right speed, should be made available to all residents of the country. This basic broadband internet service should be able to serve everyday functions such as support for e-mail, administration, training and educational basic online tools and electronic banking. Dear House, Another important change is the need for the Authority to assess the affordability of universal services in relation to retail prices and consumer income. Where it can be established that universal service is not affordable, the authority may require service providers to establish preferential tariff options or preferential tariff packages. With regard to end-user rights, the Code provides for so-called maximum harmonisation, which means that specific consumer rights must be guaranteed in the same way in all EU Member States in order to ensure that consumers enjoy equally high protection throughout the Union. The bill increases the transparency of contracts among information and contracting requirements, simplifies the general terms and conditions and enhances the right of end-users to terminate. The amendments will also affect the rules for switching and porting of numbers, as well as the need to provide end-users with objective means of comparison and traffic measurement. They support a conscious consumer behaviour that we hope will have a positive impact on maintaining competition between service providers. Another important novelty of the regulation is the inclusion of global Internet platforms for communication and communication, which have so far been used for communication and communication, so that number-independent communication services such as Viber or Messenger or even e-mail services will also be covered by consumer protection provisions protecting end-users. In order to further encourage the construction of broadband networks, the bill introduces, inter alia, new network access and interconnection rules and a co-investment model based on the sharing of investment and risk in the cooperation of several operators. To sum up, this bill will have a positive impact on the lives of Hungarian people and Hungarian families, in addition to fulfilling legal harmonisation obligations, it will fundamentally define and improve the functioning of the communications market. Dear Parliament, Following the legislative review, we need to re-evaluate things that have gone beyond time. [[16.40]] Consider, for example, the paper directory, the pay phones, or the telegram. However, the challenge is not only to keep pace with change, but also to some extent to predict it. Who would have thought years ago that schools would have to move so quickly to the transition to digital work order, or that a significant part of society would have to work from home? Communication services should therefore be developed in a way that ensures full participation of citizens in social and economic life in accordance with Article XXI. It is necessary in the first century and can be served by developed services. Consumers should be helped not to be vulnerable but to benefit from digital services. To this end, a stable, time-resistant, affordable, highly high-speed data transmission network should be encouraged and supported. Our goal is to use the bill for these purposes. The long preparation period was necessary in view of the close cooperation between the government, the telecoms authority and the industrial actors, which each party considered to be positive, and I can say that a well-thought-out, time-proof bill has come before the Honourable Parliament. And the events of the past months have confirmed that the work of the previous years has been successful in the development of communications, we can be proud of the results of our work so far, but we cannot sit back, because it is now necessary to make the right decisions about our digital future in the present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-20-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The main speaker speeches will now take place. First, I give the floor to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-20-129	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is actually about adopting an EU directive and fulfilling the EU's legal harmonisation obligation. The European Electronic Communications Code (2018/1972) Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council was published in the Official Journal of the Union on 17 December 2018. The purpose of this bill is to establish the legislation necessary for the transposition of the above-mentioned code in Hungary. The Member States must ensure the transposition of the Code by 21 December 2020, so it is safe to say that the Hungarian legislation, the Hungarian Parliament, is still dealing with this issue in good time. Both the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology were actively involved in the drafting of the bill, and professional representatives were involved in the preparation of the bill. Therefore, many of their comments and professional proposals have been incorporated into the legislative amendment before us. Most of the importance of the new regulation is that it affects a large number of people, since almost all people now have some kind of Internet access, subscription, and, of course, a significant part of businesses are subscribers and regular users of Internet services. The market for service providers is also significant, as in addition to some large service providers, many small operators are also present in the domestic communications and IT market. The Code updates EU telecoms rules by reviewing the current communication regulatory framework for 2009, while allowing for the repeal of obsolete procedures and provisions. In addition to the amendment of the Communications Act, some regulations will be regulated at regulation level. Among the objectives of the new Code are to encourage investment in high-speed broadband networks, to protect consumers effectively, to ensure consistent application of rules and to ensure a level playing field for all market participants. Ladies and gentlemen, The package of proposals that you have just tabled, as you have read, contains a great deal of small regulations, which I would not mention separately, but I would just like to highlight the main points of these, or to make some brief comments about them. An essential element of the proposal is that the new code seeks to improve the situation of consumers, as it seeks to make switching between service providers easier, and in contract terms it aims to make them more transparent and comparable in the future, thereby providing greater protection. Among other things, provision should be made for the publication of information on the quality of services on a regular basis. The information shall then be provided in a clear and easily accessible way, in an easily downloadable format, explicitly drawing the consumer's attention to accessibility and providing information requirements for SMEs or non-profit organisations acting as end-users in the future. I would like to point out here that, in order to ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities, the amendment requires end-users with disabilities to benefit from these services under the same conditions, in particular with regard to the quality and remuneration of services, as other end-users. It is also an important point of the regulation that the subscriber should have the right to terminate the contract within one month of notification of unilateral amendment of the contract without further consequences. An exception to this provision is the so-called number-independent interpersonal communications services. It is important to note that the package of services is becoming more widespread and therefore their regulation is also necessary. In many cases, if different rules apply to certain elements of a package, the right of subscribers to switch to another service is violated. To this end, it is absolutely necessary to introduce that all elements of the package of services should be subject to the same rules in the future. A further step is to provide end-users with tools in the future, also mentioned by the Secretary of State, to monitor consumption in real time, as well as greater transparency, so that subscribers can control their communications expenditure. On the basis of the Code, it should be possible for the Authority to monitor the quality of services and to collect data on them. The Electronic Communications Act empowers the Authority to impose a reporting obligation on the quality of services. The legislation before us also aims to regulate the difficulties of switching providers so far. This is because the possibility of switching providers is essential in the event of an effective competition and competitive environment. In recognition of this fact, the law lays down, in accordance with the provisions of the European Electronic Communications Code, that service providers must ensure continuity of services in such cases, so that end-users can change a service provider without risk of not providing services and, if technically possible, on the day they request. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the modernisation of the universal communications service, the law states that all people in the country must have access to broadband at affordable prices. Access to affordable and adequate broadband should be accessible to all users regardless of their location and income status. Where broadband services cannot be provided in a certain part of a Member State, the regulatory authority may impose a universal service obligation, so that universal service providers can be designated in these areas. The availability of affordable and adequate broadband internet is included in the list of basic services that all consumers should be able to use regardless of their geographical situation and their previously mentioned income conditions. I would also like to point out here that people with disabilities should also have equal access to the Internet. On the basis of the Code, it is also possible to maintain universal service elements in the Member States which are not specifically mentioned in the Code but have already been introduced. These include, for example, the operation of public telephone stations in Hungary, the provision of national domestic enquiry services or the availability of the subscriber directory. Finally, it is important to mention the introduction of ultra-high-speed networks, i.e. networks capable of speeding up so-called gigabits/seconds across Europe, and the effective promotion of this process, for example by strengthening competition, increasing investment drive and applying new access rules. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill before us will encourage investment in high-speed broadband networks, provide more effective protection for consumers in the future and create a more level playing field for market players. [[16.50]] In my view, the above amendments can make a significant contribution to further increasing Hungary's competitiveness, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-20-130	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-05-20-131	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. The regulation of electronic communications services at EU level was implemented in the framework of four directives and a Regulation before the adoption of this Code. The Commission has an obligation to review it regularly, in particular with a view to adapting it to technological changes and market developments. These objectives include effective consumer protection, a level playing field and ensuring consistent application of regulations to all market participants and ensuring a more effective regulatory institutional framework. It strengthens consumer rights and strengthens the position of smaller service providers vis-à-vis the larger ones. As you can see, these are supportive and positive goals. By the way, this directive, which is being transposed now, is part of the EU's process of regulation, called REFIT, which is part of this programme. This review will thus provide an opportunity to recast the four directives and make the current structure more uniform and accessible by simplifying it. Competent authorities should contribute to the implementation of wider policies in the fields of culture, employment, the environment, social cohesion and spatial planning, as defined by this Directive. This is a 112-page bill, along with the justification, and it concerns extremely diverse areas. Therefore, it would be difficult for a more prepared politician to give a single summary opinion on this, and I would therefore like to highlight a few provisions. It is essential to ensure that the public is not exposed to electromagnetic radiation at a level that endangers public health. The provision of wireless electronic communications services can be particularly useful, in this case the shared use of passive infrastructure in accordance with competition law rules, thus maximising the extremely high capacity connectivity throughout the Union. Price regulation may be necessary if market analysis on a particular market reveals a lack of effective competition. This is also a very positive provision. The universal service operates as a safety net, ensuring that at least one minimum package of services is available to all end users at an affordable price for consumers. This is important in order not to create a lack of so-called access, which leads to social exclusion, and in this case citizens simply cannot participate properly in social and economic life. Basic broadband internet access is largely ensured throughout the EU. However, we must take into account the fact that in many places the level of availability is lower; the reason for this is, where appropriate, lack of awareness, because of costs or lack of skills. An affordable and adequate broadband internet access is essential in today's societies. The affordable price is the price set by Member States at national level, which is clearly set at a non-EU uniform level, in the light of specific national conditions. Where Member States establish that retail prices for adequate broadband internet access and voice services cannot be paid to low-income or special socialised consumers, appropriate measures shall be taken in this case. To this end, Member States may, where appropriate for communication purposes, grant direct support to consumers as part of social benefits: either vouchers or direct payments. The possibility of switching providers is also essential for creating effective competition. Number portability is an essential factor in promoting consumer choice and effective competition in a competitive electronic communications market. And now let me mention a sensitive area. Service providers should record certain metadata, typically subscriber data, which are inherently important for the accuracy and control of invoicing. This would obviously be recorded by law, and now it would be enshrined in the law, and it also includes access by the authorities, including national security. Obviously, this has its own logic from the point of view of law enforcement, but the question arises that this is also an opportunity for abuse, so it can be accepted with a calm heart if there are no objections to the rule of law in that country. Of course, the Code lays down a significant part of existing regulations, includes them in this common regulatory framework, and let me quote a part of that, which is still valid today: the objectives of audiovisual policy and content regulation of general interest, freedom of expression, media pluralism and the guarantee of impartiality. Competent authorities should contribute to this enforcement. And now I'm going to ask myself a rhetorical question. In today's Hungary, these conditions are freedom of expression, and I do not repeat a specific example; media pluralism, especially with regard to the most influential electronic media tools, is available? The European Union must monitor this legislation in two ways. On the one hand, the substance of the transposition into national law, given that there is a certain freedom, it is not a regulation that complies with the directive originally. I consider this to be fulfilled, but all the legislation, all the directives, are worth as much as they are. The above-mentioned existing legislation is not properly implemented in Hungary, and if the competent institutions of the European Union or the international institutions specialised in this area make criticisms based on facts, you will always have a multifunctional, immediate answer: Soros. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-132	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-05-20-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Then KDNP agrees with the Fides. I waited, I expected to be in the next round. Allow me to start a little further away from what I would like to say, and I would like to reassure Mr Secretary of State that I would like to make an absolutely supportive contribution, so feel free to sit back. [[17.00]] It mossed in my head, listening a little bit to Congressman Balczó, that 26-27 years ago, when the first GSM contracts were concluded around 93-94, 450 megahertzes, if anyone still remembers this, although very young here, two large Scandinavian companies produced phones, were 8 kilos, it was a very serious piece, it had to be taken in and out, and then I'm sure there was someone who said at my age, or maybe younger, that I wouldn't learn it, that I don't care anymore, for me, the thing I use here, the wired phones and other things, those are perfectly fine for me, and they're enough for me in my life. This new technique, not so reliable, not so stable, too complicated, I don't want to use it. And here we are, once again, twenty-something years have passed, and practically for the growing generations there is a skill level in everyday use of this. I always say that when such a topic comes up in a company, let anyone see if there's still someone in his phone saved by calling him on a landline or if we automatically call the cell phone. Is there a situation for someone who has a landline at home, by the way, to get off the couch, get out of the chair, drop off to the landline and call someone else? Not long ago I watched a movie in a young society, and he said at a certain moment in the movie the main character was to say it quickly, because I'm running out of tantus. I was thinking that I'm sure there's a generation of people of age who have no idea what the street phone system meant, what running for a tantus meant. What I'm trying to say is that while it's really respectable what everyone here has said about how, how they try to regulate it, there is something incredibly fast in the world, and the question is that we are able to protect the person who is the user of this whole thing, and in some way must be the beneficiary of it, at every moment. I'd also like to share a political story with the House at this late hour. From 98 to 2002, when it was the first government cycle of the current government, I would like to say to everyone that a opposition and a pro-government representative could make joint proposals and come up with common things. And then there was a young pro-government representative, and we talked to him and we took the initiative around 2000 to set up the IT and telecommunications committee in Parliament. Today, the young Member is a minister, a very important minister, and I don't want to hurt him, but he is a very important minister. And imagine that you were able to pass through the House. So everyone understood about 99-2000 that this topic was extremely important. On the previous agenda, I also spoke about consumer protection. I really believe that if something becomes part of the public talk, it has a educational purpose, and it has some kind of coercion that certain regulatory things are enforced. The fact that, in the course of 99-2000 and otherwise in the circumstances at that time, information technology and telecommunications were included in the political discourse and, in a very, very pioneering way, the first communication law was adopted even in that cycle, and what Mr. State Secretary said now that as a universal service provider, it was then that these stories, the question of number portability, were developed; how and how we could, how and how we obliged competitors to cooperate. Yes, it was then a very, very serious political will and intention that the kind of competition that was clearly infrastructure competition during that period, how and how it could be spooned, how and how it could be achieved, if possible, to become more accessible, more and more quality and cheaper for the consumer, and rather to go through this competition in a direction that was already more educated in the world, to become a type of content to become a type of service competition. So become one of the ways and ways you can get subscribers for yourself by providing a significantly better service in the customer service section, from the device side, in quality, or in all other things. I think that we are here in the world of 2020 and I really say that very, very quickly, very clearly, and I think that effectively everything that can be known and used with the European Union today is being taken over by this bill. For our part, we believe that this can and must be supported. I would like to add that we need to be constantly prepared to think that something has been arranged and that we are fine for a long time, I think that is very, very wrong, because this whole world is going at a terrible pace. There's this classic meme that goes around the Internet, who knows when your birthday is, who knows what you love, who knows what you read, who knows what you want to do, who knows who your relatives are not your wife, not your girlfriend, but Mark Zuckerberg. So it's really true how to keep yourself in the process, how to do all the things that, by the way, define our lives. And I'm glad that this thought was not in my mind, but I'm really going to use it this way, Mr. Secretary, if you'll allow me to say that in such an extra stressful period as the past 60 days, this is what the Hungarian infrastructure has had, although obviously it was something incredibly useful either because of the digital education in the morning or because of being at home or because of other things. So I really think that these are right and good things, and we need to prepare for more and more of these types of things. So what we have here, once again, from a consumer point of view, from the point of view of infrastructure, development, I think that it is the right direction, and we need to make sure that we do not lose pace in this case and never lose pace. So if this world is developing, then we can go with it, too, from the point of view that we are not moved by technology, but we have to use and understand it in a certain way. It is a parentheses thing, I do not want to open this debate in any way, but at some point someone should speak in Hungary in 5G too. What we're seeing here is weird directions. Now, in a very leisurely time, you can also look at things you normally don't do or move on. I can see the events in England, read this Belgian statement. So we have something to say in this case. Obviously, as a normal engineer, I believe in technology, I believe that they serve this man, and I am curious, for example, that there is no way to think about it, but in this EU recommendation, which is accompanied by the entry into force, there is an idea that every EU Member State should have at least one big city where, by the end of 2020, the 5 G technology should be at least experimentally, but it can be used where we are going from this point of view. So, I don't want to open this debate, Mr Secretary, I really only did it because we are in a very tight circle of friends here on this agenda, but it will certainly start to concern the public. More and more of these types of contees are starting to spread on the Internet. So it is very, very important to hear a calm and clear sentence from this point of view. I'm sorry if it was a little more personal and there were too many recollections in it. I really say that I think it is extremely important, and I also think it is important that there is a political consensus in this matter in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-134	Thank you for your speech, Congressman. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-20-135	Thank you very much. Dear House, My colleague mentioned the late hour. I think that our fellow Members who were here in Parliament for half an hour yesterday see this date differently. However, I do not want to talk about this law for a long time, given that there is essentially one picture of what this law is like. It's a classic two-faced law, and I can say that Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde-type laws have been quite a few of them before us. [[17.10]] From Stevenson's classic novel, the European Union plays the role of a good, smart doctor, which is being transposed here by the government, and, by the way, it is right, you can see, and I can only commend you for the professional work that the government has done in this regard or for its experts in this regard. I have to say that, in fact, the directive is being transposed in detail and complies both with EU principles and in fact with the situation that is needed in Hungary, with the former Hungarian legal order. We could argue that a good part of these steps could have been taken by the government before, shouldn't have waited for the EU, but I have to say that obviously the government was also looking forward to it, and this is also understandable what exactly will be done in the Code, because if it has taken action earlier, then it may have to bring back a law. I can understand that, too. So I have to say that this part of the law can be substantially limited in criticism. It serves the goals that we also support to continue the type of technical development in Hungary, which basically allows for widespread access to network conditions and, in general, infocommunication services that are now part of our lives, sometimes we mumble about it, sometimes we make fun of it, but in fact they are part of our lives. In Mr. Secretary's exposé, I only respond to one element, without the intention of hurting it, because I think it is important that we understand that this is only one part of the development of digital Hungary. He says, Mr Secretary of State, that he has proved that due to the epidemic and the epidemic, there is an obligation, compulsory or forced school distance education system, the importance of ICT technology and the importance of distance learning in education. Dear Secretary of State, we knew that 15 years ago. If you, or not you, had been very young at the time, but your predecessors had not thrown into the trash the infocommunications education strategy that we left in the Ministry in 2010, then we could now have started the crisis and distance learning by having a laptop for special educational purposes for all teachers and students, this high quality Hungarian educational environment, and by the way, there is 8-10 years of practice in how to use this educational environment. It is very cool and very good that the schools have solved this, but we also know that this has brought a lot of difficulties, from the fact that there were no suitable tools available in the families or schools, to the point that the proper experience and expertise were very limited. So I have to say, and I want to encourage the government, in this respect, not only to deal with this part, not only with the technical part, but also to deal with digital literacy, digital culture and digital services. If you look at what the index of digital development, the DESI index, shows, in essence, that Hungary is around the EU average, in one or two places before it is connected services, so, to put it simply, everything that is wire, which is infrastructure, is relatively well placed in it, and in this respect, this bill helps to maintain this kind of position, and is lagging behind in what is a service, and which is a human area, with the exception of the number of IT experts, so it is not clear there, but there are many kinds of delays there. So I must say that we continue to miss the comprehensive strategy that covers all areas and behind which there is a broad professional consensus and a wide range of measures. But of course, the representative of the government can say that, obviously, he will tell us that this bill is in front of us now, that there will be other draft laws, and that the government will also be preparing for other work. Indeed, we hope so. By the way, from this point of view, frankly, I see a lot of things in the current Ministry of Innovation not in the right place, but particular this area may be in a better place than in those former ministerial places where it was, as if now more attention and attention were given to this area. Let's look at the less pleasant side, the monstrous Mr. Hyde, who in this case is being played by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The reason why we will not be able to support this bill is because, while the proposal has a lot of positive elements, it will further increase the power that this kind of office holds. What we mean, of course, is that there's a big building, and we need jurisdiction. Today's news or news has recently been revealed that 20 billion dollars will be used to build the Sipi-Supi, wonderful centre for this institution, but we can also see what you are using this institution for. I do not want to go into a media policy debate right now, but this is the institution which, by the way, provides a bureaucratic background for a number of measures that significantly and significantly restrict freedom of the media. This is the office that has not yet been afraid to abuse its very significant power for political purposes. Let me point out with great love how the German parent company behind the large Hungarian telecommunications company has been persuaded to sell Origo into the right hands, which, to put it mildly, has not become a government mouthpiece for the glory of freedom of the press. In other words, whether it is about frequencies or, in general, the division of the rights and opportunities of communications and digital techniques, which are otherwise very, very valuable, and the associated very serious power, is now being used by the authority for the sake of transparent, but also political goals. We therefore cannot agree with the proposal, which broadens the powers of this authority, the possibility of arbitrary action, and we cannot support such a proposal, I repeat, despite many positive elements of the proposal which otherwise exist. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-20-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda to respond to what has been said.
u2020-05-20-137	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to start by saying thank you for the fundamentally positive and supportive thoughts and that you can support the vast majority of the bill. I hope that this will be seen in the votes. Allow me to respond to some of the questions that have been said and raised during the debate. I will try to break down the political elites in view of the professional debate, although there is a great temptation that when George Soros is protected from Jobbik's ranks, I will make snotty remarks about this, but I will try not to do so. Basically, they would signal Mr Balczó that law enforcement authorities can only have access to communications data and call information within a highly regulated framework in the usual manner in other countries. So basically, there is no special situation here. Moreover, in this aspect, this change of legislation does not result in any substantive change compared to the current legislation. So I hope that I can dissipate the fear of this gentleman that there is some kind of excessive mandate here. Allow me to thank Congressman Molnár for the political history review, bringing unexpected excitement in the debate to the representative of the government. [[Defiance.]] I think that we can all be grateful for this, I am sure of it personally, because you have shown exciting colors, Congressman, and thank you for your support. In relation to the 5 G, allow me to say two short sentences. On the one hand, no serious research, no scientific study revealed any impact on health risks. I hope you can interpret this as a confirmation. On the other hand, allow me to inform you that the government has asked the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to conduct a scientific study on the health effects of 5 G and to present its position in a summary scientific report. So another scientific position, I hope, will support what I said a few minutes ago, that so far no investigation and no scientific results prove that any health risks would arise here. [[17.20]] I would just like to say to Mr Arató that in recent years, the programme "Digitual well-being" has been trying to approach digitalisation in a comprehensive and horizontal way, covering a significant part of services, public services and different fields of expertise. In particular, the Digital Education Strategy, which was adopted years ago, is an important task and has been implemented at a forced pace in recent years. I understand you were referring to digital developments in education before 2010. We all remember well the scandals that accompanied them. We must, therefore, pay particular attention to the fact that we can transform slightly used terms, used concepts, used professional goals and integrate them into the strategy in such a way that it can serve the interests of the Hungarian pedagogical society, Hungarian students, Hungarian public education and public education. Nevertheless, I thank you for your statement that you acknowledge the professionalism of the bill and the work of the staff of the Ministry. Thank you for that. And allow me to draw your attention to that, and I hope that I can persuade you to support the bill: the NMHH is not a government body, but an organisation independent of the government. We can trust that this is, on the one hand, a sufficient guarantee for the Member, and, on the other hand, a sufficient guarantee that the legislative opportunities granted to the NMHH represent, in fact, the tasks and competences that the European Union expects. I think it would be strange if a united Europe, or I do not know what kind of construction the Democratic Coalition would oppose, is harmonisation of a directive in the way that the European Union expects. I hope that this will be a sufficient comfort to the Member and that they will be able to support the bill. I ask the entire Parliament to do so, and thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-20-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will now be speeches after we have reached the end of the debate on today's agenda. There is one statement after the agenda today, in the person of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, for how long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian is not in the Chamber.]] I did not see from the pulpit that Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian was not here. That concludes the speech after the agenda, which has not even begun. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
