u2020-06-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. In the second half of the 20th century, a number of major laws were adopted that provided an appropriate legal framework for the operation of the post-convention modern Hungary. These include the XXXIII of 1871. Act on the Royal Prosecutor's Office, which stated that the public interest of the State in the judiciary is represented by the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office established and regulated by this Act, placed under the authority of the Minister of Justice. Since this law was announced in both Houses of Parliament on 10 June 1871, we have been celebrating the day of the Prosecutor's Office since 1991. On the basis of Article 29 of our Fundamental Law, the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent in Hungary, and as a public prosecutor, the public prosecutor is the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. The Public Prosecutor's Office pursues crimes, acts against other illegal acts and omissions, and facilitates the prevention of illegal acts. In November 2011, the Parliament adopted the 2011 CLXIII. Act and the 2011 CLXIV. Act on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other prosecutorial staff and the career of the prosecutor. All of this has been achieved with the full organisational unity and comprehensive regulation of the prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen, Within the framework of the Parliament's monitoring function, we can regularly find out about the operation of the prosecutor's office on the basis of the report submitted by the Attorney General and during the hearings of the Commission. We can monitor how the prosecutor's organisation, as one of the wheels of the Hungarian judicial system, performs its diverse tasks in connection with criminal proceedings, prison or public administration. Therefore, on this day, on 10 June, we express our thanks for the sacrifice of all the employees of the prosecutor's organization. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The National Assembly of Hungary declared 10 June, the day of the sinking of the battleship Szent István, in 2016, the Memorial Day of the Hungarian Marines and the Hungarian Marines who died a heroic death. Ladies and gentlemen, The traumas of losing wars, as well as the shadow of dictatorships, go far away and may still shadow our present. The memory of the Hungarian Marines and their fellow heroes who served in the First World War, as a result of the post-war peace dictatorship and the communist regime following the Second World War, was less profound in the Hungarian public consciousness. Although Hungary has always been a continental country, it has given excellent sailors to the Austrian-Hungarian army. Not only the battlefields and trenches, but also the sea, our soldiers brought the heroic Hungarian military virtues, stability and courage with them. In the mid-1910s, 15-20 percent of the Austrian-Hungarian military fleet was given by Hungarian soldiers, and hundreds of them eventually died on the waves and shores of the Adriatic. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the peace treaties following the First World War, Hungary ceased to be a maritime country, but the memory of the Hungarian heroes of the former Austro-Hungarian Navy was maintained. After 1945, however, their memory was no longer cherished. This was largely due to the fact that the communist cultural policy under political and ideological goals branded the Austrian-Hungarian state fighting in the First World War as an imperialist aggressor. Thus, the memory of the former Hungarian sailors in the navy of the Monarchy was no longer included in the official memory policy after 1945. In doing so, the power of the period wiped the memory of Hungarian sailors who fought and died in the First World War from a series of national commemorations for many decades. In 2016, the National Assembly put the shadow and forgetting cast in memory of our sailors who died a heroic death in the ranks of our national memorial days. Dear Parliament, Although Hungary lost about two thirds of its inhabitants, sea and fleet as a result of the Trianon peace dictatorship a hundred years ago, it is our fundamental duty to remember the memory of our countrymen who have sacrificed their lives for the survival of their country and for the purpose of their country. Regardless of the kind of forces and the battlefield our soldiers served, they can always count on the honor and respect of the country for their country and for their heroic death. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with a general debate. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2021 will follow. The bill is T/10710. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/10710/1. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to the hearing. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act in the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today, as well as the main rules of the debate. Mr. Messenger! [[8.10]]
u2020-06-10-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 11-hour timeframe is divided into 226 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 104 minutes for the KDNP Group, 76 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 71 minutes for the MSZP Group, 56 minutes for the DK Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group, 46 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 33 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to another day. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has applied through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. Where he has made direct contact, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member, each within a 7-minute time frame. On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, the representative of the ethnic minority of Hungary, who has been invited by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, will speak in a total of 60 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe.
u2020-06-10-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, In the general debate today, in a 40-minute time frame, the President of the State Audit Office spoke in a 30-minute time frame, the President of the Board of Budgets spoke in a 30-minute time frame, in a 30-30-minute time frame, for the speakers of the political groups, the representative of nationalities invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, who spoke in a 20-minute time frame, followed by the first independent Member, and then the further speeches will be possible to the extent of the time frame for each faction. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2020-06-10-3	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Lords of the President, Ladies and gentlemen, Unusual times require unusual measures. The victory of Hungarian society as a whole, of all our compatriots, is that we were able to take the necessary steps immediately in the epidemic situation and, in essence, we won the battle against the virus. With that in mind, we turn to the families of the victims with deep pain. The next task is to rebuild the growth of our economy to the level before the epidemic as quickly as possible, so Hungary's budget for 2021 is the budget of economic protection, which includes the necessary resources while maintaining the epidemiological preparedness; resources to support families raising children, value pensioners, retain jobs and create new jobs. So we preserve the values that we claim to have. The protection of families, the provision of economic development opportunities and the guarantee of Hungary's security is also a priority in the next year's budget. Accordingly, he submitted a new type of budget to the Parliament in terms of the form and content of the government. The former classic Ministry logic is replaced by the fact that next year the budget will be based on two large funds, the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund and the Economic Protection Fund. I would add that the structure has also been significantly simplified, and the number of budget lines has decreased by nearly half compared to the previous one, while maintaining transparency. Based on the results of the Hungarian economy over the past ten years and the success of the government's efforts to tackle the crisis, it is rightly expected that economic growth in Hungary will be restored faster than in other affected countries. In addition, financial stability and responsible budgetary management are factors that are necessary for Hungary's development and independence in all situations. We'll keep these. Based on the internal resources of our country, the draft budget for 2021 calculates a dynamic, 4.8 per cent gross domestic product expansion, moderate, 3 per cent inflation, a deficit target below the Maastricht reference value of 2.9 per cent gross domestic product and a security reserve above 0.5 per cent of a national income in addition to a reduction in government debt. As a result of the economic expansion expected next year and the disciplined management, after temporary growth, public debt will once again be on a downward path, and we hope that it will be below 70 percent again next year. As usual, we have been presenting the bill in spring for the sixth year. We are doing this because, in the current situation, it is particularly important not to give up the advantage that early knowledge of government measures, predictability are for market players and, obviously, for households and families. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to a consistent economic policy over recent years, the epidemic has hit a strong, resilient and balanced economy in March this year. Since 2010, the Hungarian economy has been able to make significant progress. While our country was considered one of the most vulnerable countries in the world in 2009, we were mentioned among the ten countries facing bankruptcy, and at the moment of the global crisis, the left-wing-liberal government was among the first to turn to international institutions for credit, until 2019, ten years later, in the economic growth of our country, it was one of the European Union's engines. In recent years, we have repaid loans from the IMF and the European Commission, and Hungary is able to finance its operations mainly from internal sources. Contrary to the period of socialist governance, the economy is not characterised by debt, but is based on stable and balanced fundamentals, where debt levels continue to decline. Since the turn of growth in 2013, the Hungarian economy has been on a stable and balanced growth path and has expanded by nearly 30 percent since 2013. In 2019, gross domestic product increased by 4.9 percent annually, and the investment rate reached a record rate of 28.6 percent. In 2010, domestic products per capita represented 33 per cent of the EU-15 average in euro, which increased to 40 per cent in 2019. Of the 1 million new jobs to be achieved in the last nine years, set as a target in 2010, over ten years, 840,000 have already been achieved. The number of people employed thus exceeded 4.5 million, while the unemployment rate fell to 3.3 per cent by the end of 2019, which was the fourth lowest among the Member States of the European Union. While the average net earnings of full-time employees in 2010 were 132 665 HUF/month, an increase of more than 84 per cent was observed in 2019, i.e. 244 609 HUF at the end of last year. [[8.20]] This means that average earnings have increased by 7% on average over the last nine years. In Hungarian economic history, there has never been such a long period of continuous wage growth and increase in earnings. The data also show that by the end of 2019, they made 90 percent more money in the competition sector than in 2010, while in the public sector 71.5 percent more money could be brought home in 2019 than in 2010. It is important to see that one of the biggest advances has been made in the labour market since 2010. This was the basis for all other results. Unemployment in Hungary has not been as low since the change of regime as it was in 2019. In 2010, the unemployment rate was 11.2 percent among 15-74-year-olds, i.e. almost 12 percent, and the same was only 3.4 percent in 2019. Less than a third of the number of unemployed people fell from about half a million to 163 thousand. Not as many people have worked in Hungary since almost three decades ago, i.e. since the change of regime, as at the end of 2019. The number of employees was 4 million and 520,000, and the number in the domestic competitive sector increased by about 31 thousand in one year. Just think, ladies and gentlemen, the 2008 crisis meant that there was unemployment above 8 percent at the time. The current epidemiological situation has reached us at 3.3 percent unemployment, and in Hungary we are much more crisis resistant than in the 2008 period. The government's initiative also helps to increase employment and the willingness and competitiveness of companies to invest; in 2016, we concluded a wage increase and tax reduction agreement. As a result, both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased and the employer's burden has been significantly reduced. The real turnaround after 2010 was that growth and catching up were achieved by restoring the balance of the budget. The government debt-to-GDP ratio has been declining. Contrary to the figure above 80% in 2010, by the end of 2019 the debt decreased to 66.3 percent, in Hungarian we were able to overcome a 30-year-old problem when the Hungarian economy grew, and the level of public debt always increased. For the first time, we have a time when public debt has fallen significantly, while the performance of the economy has been outstanding in European comparison. It is also very important to stress that the Government of Hungary has placed the emphasis on domestic resources in the financing of public debt, so that the structure of public debt has also been made more secure. While almost half of the debt was in foreign currency ten years ago, by the fourth quarter of 2019 this ratio was reduced to 21 per cent, i.e. from 50 per cent to 21 per cent; and the percentage of foreigners fell from 65 per cent at the end of 2011 to 34 per cent by the end of last year. So the domestic ratio became 65 percent of the government debt. Meanwhile, the estimated public debt ratio is 26 per cent, which was only 3 per cent in 2010. So it is the Hungarian population that is now helping the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, to manage the public debt. We think it's the right thing to do. The return, the interest income that is generated through this must remain in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, A few words about the economic framework and the government's prognosis. As the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic has overwritten the growth prospects of the past, Hungarian economic policy is a priority to protect the economic results achieved so far. During the period of growth, we were caught by the epidemic and the resulting economic downturn. The Hungarian economy has expanded by 2.2 percent in the first quarter of 2020 with the corona virus epidemic, with only four EU countries in total being able to do so in the first quarter of this year. We are therefore still at the forefront of this achievement and have exceeded the average growth of the Union by more than 5 percent in the first quarter. So this growth rate, this growth surplus: Hungary not only preserved it, which marked the end of last year, but even increased it. Looking ahead, government measures can predict a dynamic growth of 4.8 per cent already mentioned by 2021 in parallel to the post-pest economic recovery. The growth rate of more than 4 per cent may then persist. Of course, I could now agree to the professional debate on how fast, slow, or restrained the recovery after the crisis will be. The Hungarian government's prognosis is based on a moderate, moderate estimate. There are more optimistic ones, of course there are more pessimistic ones that are currently missing from the Chamber. [[Towards Anita Kőrösi Potocsány:]] Aside from one lady, [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] But I must think or say that the Hungarian government has outlined a conservative growth path that can be achieved next year. Hungarian economic policy therefore remains committed to the catching-up process. This objective remains characterised by three things: improving competitiveness, continuing tax cuts and maintaining responsible budgetary management; these remain a basic starting point. Dear House, In 2021, according to the bill before you, each priority area will have more resources to manage. Allow me to highlight some areas, and let me start with the support of families. Nearly HUF 2295 billion is available in the budget next year to support families. This amount is 67 billion higher than this year. Since 2010, the government has increased support for families by nearly 2.5 times, making it the highest in Europe and 4.5 percent of gross domestic product. About pensions. The budget also provides resources for the recognition of pensioners. By 2021, the expenditure on pensions was set at HUF 3907 billion. This is also higher than this year's HUF 327 billion, so there is a significant increase here too. I must highlight and stress specifically that it is at the disposal of the government, the state bodies, the amount that represents the first stage of the retirement of the 13th month pension. More than HUF 53 billion will be available for the pension premium, HUF 77 billion to rebuild the first phase of the 13th month pension, so we keep our promise that pensions will be valuable and not only that, but also that the value of pensions will increase significantly next year. In 2021, the government spends HUF 2229 billion on education, which is more than HUF 78 billion this year, and represents an increase of HUF 784 billion compared to 2010. The following year there will be HUF 2115 billion in healthcare. This is also more than HUF 156 billion this year, and this is HUF 918 billion more than in 2010. It is very important to preserve the security that has characterised and characterised Hungary, so protection of borders and public security remain a priority. Protection spending and resources amount to HUF 704 billion in 2021, which is also higher than this year by HUF 154 billion, so there is a significant increase here too. The further development of law enforcement and public security is HUF 953 billion, which is HUF 93 billion more than this year. The framework for social security and welfare services, such as sickness, unemployment, family allowance and retirement benefits, will increase by HUF 541 billion compared to this year, so the sector will manage HUF 6500 billion by 2021. [[8.30]] Therefore, the Hungarian government is still not thinking about providing a basic income that can be obtained without work as a starting point for these benefits, but of providing a framework for traditional welfare services at a higher level. Next year, the budget will provide HUF 4477 billion for public sector workers, which is also higher than HUF 387 billion this year, and the government will also significantly increase the public employment spending framework to HUF 165 billion as a means of protecting jobs. Obviously, if unemployment has increased as a result of the epidemic, this may have an impact next year, so these frameworks have been increased, both in this year and in the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, In line with the headline targets, the character of next year's budget is therefore essentially determined by the two separate funds, the Economic Fund and the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund, which will be complemented by institutional and portfolio budgets. Now allow me to say a few words about these two funds, the structure of this. I'll start with the Economic Security Fund. In response to the economic challenges caused by the corona virus epidemic, the government has developed Hungary's largest economic protection programme so far. The protection of the economy, the preservation of jobs and the creation of new ones in the 2021 budget will be based on the Economic Protection Fund and, as part of it, on an economic protection employment fund. Through the Economic Protection Fund, in 2021 there will be more than HUF 2550 billion in resources available to preserve jobs, promote the creation of new jobs, strengthen priority sectors, provide liquidity, finance for businesses, support for families and the protection of pensioners. We continue to believe in a policy of tax reduction. As opposed to the crisis management of former governments, which only thought about tax increases and cuts, the civilian side chose tax reductions and the reduction of the burden on Hungarian households as a crisis management method. Full employment remains an important goal. The government's goal is to create at least as many new jobs as the virus destroys. Our other big fund is the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund. This pillar contains some HUF 3000 billion in resources for the control of the epidemic and for the operation of the health care system. The most important expenditure on health insurance benefits is medical and preventive care. Compared to this year's appropriation, the additional resource for this purpose is about HUF 138 billion. This will provide, among other things, the necessary cover for the wage development programme of health professionals and women in charge of health care. The 2021 resources will enable the continuation of measures to improve health care that have already started, to increase the effectiveness of the health care system and to improve the sustainability of the funding system, and to support these tasks. The additional resource for next year will also ensure further procurement of high-value medicines and devices, the reception of overcapacity, and the further development of the financing of fertility care. Compared to this year's appropriations, we will also provide a significant surplus on expenditure on pharmaceutical support and support for medical aid. Allow me also to mention a few sentences on the issues of the issue, such as the "Healthy Budapest" programme. We will continue next year, and for this purpose the bill contains nearly HUF 30 billion. In this context, the development of health benefits in the metropolitan and Pest counties will continue next year, the infrastructure renewal of the institutions concerned, and the facilitation of access to services. In addition, the proposal has resources for, among other things, the renewal of the rescue vehicles of the National Rescue Service and the modernisation of their rescue equipment. It is also a source of public health and health screening, as well as the purchase of vaccines. Of course, we can't anticipate everything, so next year's budget will also provide a central reserve in the Anti-CDC Fund to prevent and eliminate the consequences of a mass disease epidemic, this amount was set at HUF 30 billion. Dear House, Hungary's development is based on a strong society, and therefore the strengthening of families is a nation-wide strategic goal. Therefore, the Family Protection Action Plan will continue in 2021, and we will spend more resources than ever before next year, some HUF 2295 billion to support families with children. In addition to family protection, we will continue to help improve the situation of families with a number of additional measures next year. Allow me to mention five of these measures from the budget. The first is that we continue to maintain the family tax system, which applies one of Europe's lowest personal income tax rates by 15 percent, as well as by providing significant family tax and contribution reductions. Secondly, support for the first successful language examination and the training and examination fee for basic transport skills will continue and the number of beneficiaries will be extended by the government from 1 July 2020 to those receiving childcare support, so the support will also help children. Thirdly, in recognition of the efforts of home care providers, we will continue to increase the cost of care and care for children. Fourthly, in order to increase women's participation in the labour market, we will further expand the institutions for the provision of day care for young children. Thus, there is a further increase in the number of seats, which could increase women's participation in the labour market. And fifthly, we continue to give priority to the financing of children's meals, and ensure that every child in Hungary from nursery to school has access to high-quality meals, including during all school holidays. Dear Parliament, The work of the current pensioners has contributed to the success of active workers, which must be acknowledged. The essence of the government's pension policy is that pensioners also benefit from the development of domestic economic processes, as they have worked for this country for decades and raised their children. In 2010, the Cabinet promised to protect the real value of pensions year after year. As a result, pensions increased by 38 percent between 2010 and 2020 and their purchasing power improved by more than 10 percent due to persistently low inflation. The government will continue to guarantee an inflation-following pension increase next year, and pensioners, as in recent years, can expect a pension premium. One of the elements of the economic protection action plan's family and pension protection programme is the retirement of the 13th month pension, which takes place in four instalments. In the first step, pensioners will be entitled to a pension of one week in addition to the January 2021 pension. In 2022, they will receive a pension of two weeks or three weeks in 2023 and will receive a 13th month pension of the same amount as a one-month pension each year in addition to their pension as from 2024. In addition to pensioners, pensioners will be entitled to 13 months' benefits. In addition to these additional benefits, we will continue to ensure that the income of pensioners is exempt from social contributions and contributions. Dear House, The recognition of the work of those serving the public and the preservation of the results achieved are also highlighted in the budget in 2021. [[8.40]] Since 2012, salaries and wages in the public sector have been constantly increasing along careers based on sectoral features and wage measures. Such a comprehensive career programme has increased, for example, the salaries of teachers, law and defence professionals and government officials. Significant wage measures have been taken in several stages in health care and in the case of judicial workers. These actions include wage measures already implemented this year or to take place in the second semester, for example in order and defence, government offices, so-called constitutional bodies with special status, education, social and cultural workers. The resources are also available for the subsequent rate of increase in salaries for law enforcement and administrative staff and for the financial recognition of daycare workers. The budget will, of course, provide an opportunity to launch further sectoral careers and wage arrangements in both numerically and in its rule system in 2021. Dear House, Let me also say a few words about the budgetary implications of our membership of the European Union. For the EU budget cycle 2014-2020, the government has set a targeted and effective use of EU funds for our country. The EU programmes are implemented accordingly and Hungary is above the EU average in drawing funds. Continuing this practice, the focus will continue to be on successful implementation of projects in 2021. In order to ensure the efficient use of EU funds and, in particular, of resources to the economy, the government plans to launch the new EU budget cycle 2021-27 by 2021. I would like to point out that the debates are still taking place within the European Union. It is considered that due to the economic downturn caused by the coronal virus epidemic, greater resources should be allocated to all Member States during the first years of the period 2021-27. This could mean that in 2021-22 Hungary will also receive a higher rate of support for the whole seven-year cycle. Of course, given the speed or pace of the EU procedures, the Hungarian budget remains ready to make pre-financing in 2021 when it grants it and finances the part of EU funding. The government's objective is unchanged in terms of use. We continue to think that most of this amount, 60% of it, should be spent on economic development, which will substantially help to achieve economic growth in the country, maintain the momentum of investment, increase employment, more jobs and improve the country's competitiveness. But in addition, significant resources will be available for the development of the health and social sector, for social inclusion programmes and for modernising public administration and public service infrastructure. In addition to grants, financial instruments that can be relocated several times have already been in this cycle and can provide secure financing for business development in the long term. In terms of the programmes of the two EU cycles, we plan to pay approximately HUF 1600 billion in total, and we expect more than HUF 1100 billion in EU revenue in 2021. Dear House, Let us also talk about the funding of municipalities, as this has already been a lively debate in recent days. The local government's task and funding system has been fundamentally renewed since 2013. New task-based funding has demonstrated its effectiveness in recent years. Central budgetary resources adapted to the tasks of local authorities will continue to be fully available next year. In order to support the operation of local governments, next year's draft budget law includes more than HUF 857 billion, which was 16 percent, HUF 118 billion more than this year's budget allocation for 2020. I repeat once again: next year, municipal support will increase by 16 percent compared to this year, nominally by HUF 118 billion. Since the wage increase and tax reduction agreement, which concerns municipalities in 2016, also concerns the government, the government provides budgetary support for the payment of increased wages. In the framework of the economic protection action plan, we will also launch a number of investments and job creation improvements in 2021. As the economy is expected to grow by around 5 percent in the next year, local governments will also increase their business tax revenues, which will also increase the room for manoeuvre of municipalities. Local government sales of business tax have increased by 50 percent over the last five years. I trust that this trend will continue in the future after this transitional year. With our economic protection measures, we are therefore also supporting municipal tax revenues, while at the same time allowing municipalities to apply a new credit line of HUF 200 billion if they have a type of development, investment that requires additional resources beyond their existing own resources and state aid. In addition, the government will continue a special programme to support local government investments next year, such as the "Modern Cities" programme and the "Hungarian Village" programme, but we will also channel serious resources into the settlements from EU programmes. The total value of these amounts is close to HUF 400 billion. At the same time, everyone must play their part in the costs of combating the epidemic, and cooperation is needed. This is precisely what the solidarity contribution of the municipalities is about. Richer municipalities pay for poorer settlements. Contrary to rumors, therefore, this is not a government withdrawal. This has worked in recent years, but rather the strange thing is that the leadership of Budapest seems not to want to participate in this solidarity, and it is clearly launching a debate between the municipalities. All in all, municipalities can manage nearly HUF 3000 billion in the following year without a loan source, to which the central budget provides more than HUF 857 billion in support. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Following full compliance with the legal guarantees of budgetary planning, the Budget Council delivered an opinion on the draft budget for 2021, which it considered credible, sound and enforceable. The State Audit Office also carried out its audit and examined in detail the design documents and the draft budget. The opinions of the Budget Council and the Court of Auditors confirm that Parliament can start negotiating a well-founded bill in all respects. I would also like to thank the staff of both organisations for their work in the course of the opinion and monitoring of the draft. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the budget for 2021 shows that the government does not alleviate the economic crisis with austerity but with assistance, and that for the future, we have developed a programme that is in line with the government's values. The goal remains to achieve full employment, to reduce taxes, to support families. These principles appear in the language of numbers in the budget of Hungary next year. I therefore ask you to discuss and accept next year's draft budget law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-4	Thank you very much, Minister, for your speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, in a 30-minute timeframe. Mr. President, please.
u2020-06-10-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Lords of the President, Honourable Minister and State Secretary Ladies and Gentlemen and Honourable Members Ladies and Gentlemen! The 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Act 5. Pursuant to Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act, the State Audit Office checks the merits of the central budget proposal and the eligibility of revenue appropriations. The results of our audit are contained in the Court's opinion submitted to Parliament on 5 June, which can be found before you and on the website. However, before I present the main findings of this report, I would like to talk about the fact that a proposal for a central budget law, which is so uncertain, has never been in a position to be justified. [[8.50]] From the beginning of the last decade, after successful consolidation, the Hungarian economy has taken on a balanced growth path, so the central issue of the debate on the soundness of the budget has been that the government's projected dynamic economic growth has lost its actual growth by 1 to 1.5 percentage points, but, in reality, economic growth has proved to be much faster than government forecasts. However, as a result of the epidemic, the growth trend has been broken, and the relevant question at present is when the Hungarian economy will be able to return to the growth path. I think that a realistic answer can be given. It would be more difficult to predict the extent to which the Hungarian economy will be halted this year, as the time run of the processes affecting it is still almost unpredictable today, and this is reflected in the high standard deviation of the forecasts of international organisations. However, the prognosis is the same as in 2021, although forecasts are not equally optimistic in terms of size. For this reason, when assessing the 2021 budget proposal, we ignored the uncertainties in 2020 and examined how the 2021 budget ideas relate to the 2019 performance, i.e. the Commissioner. The State Audit Office carried out an evaluation of the budget processes for 2019 before the next year's draft budget law was adopted, obviously taking into account this preliminary data, and we also provided this analysis to you on Monday to provide base data. The analysis on this, which was sent to the Fiscal Council in mid-May, has also been made public and is available to you from this week. The sad experience of the epidemic is that most people suffering from other diseases are the victims of the infection, and those with a strong immune system have relatively easily survived if they are infected with the coronal virus. A similar process is expected in the economy, i.e. national economies with serious problems even in the event of the crisis, will suffer the most persistent losses, while healthy national economies will be able to recover faster. Hungary had a healthy economy and public finances at the time of the outbreak, so economic life could quickly return to normal where it is up to us. At the same time, areas where restrictive measures should be maintained permanently in order to prevent an epidemic remain. In addition, rapid rebounds are less likely in sectors most integrated into the world economy, as the problems of the global economy and the underlying diseases of some countries' economies may take years for world trade, international tourism and other internationalised activities to recover from the epidemic. From these contexts, the realistic conclusion is that the Hungarian economy's performance in the 21st year is higher than in 2019, but it is unlikely to reach the dynamics originally planned for 20th. This assumption is based on the government macroeconomic prognosis underlying the proposal for a budget law of 21 years, which expects the Hungarian economy to return to its growth path after the 2020 temporary downturn, to which both investment, consumption and export growth contribute. The increase in consumption is facilitated by the fact that actions will rise dynamically again, and employment will return to pre-p pandemic levels, leading to a reduction in unemployment or, in other words, labour reserves. There is much more to be done in order to increase exports, in which the government will continue to have serious development, diplomatic and other tasks. The forecast for growth has the consequence that the draft fiscal law must comply with the sovereign debt rule. Therefore, the SAO first examined that, on the basis of the projected economic growth and the budget law proposal's objective of budget deficit and some other factors, the requirement to reduce the sovereign debt indicator was met with sufficient certainty. According to the bill, the planned value of the sovereign debt ratio by the end of 2021 is 3.3 percentage points lower than expected by the end of 2020, i.e. it provides room for manoeuvre equivalent to more than 3 per cent of GDP if GDP increases less than projected or the increase in government debt exceeds the planned rate. According to our calculations, the government debt rule would not be met in year 21 if, in addition to the planned GDP growth, the government debt increased by another HUF 1632 billion, and the nominal GDP growth rate would not reach 3.4 percent with the planned government debt. In accordance with the opinion of the Fiscal Council, the SAO considered the macroeconomic projections underlying the bill to be an appropriate basis for planning the budget for 2021. What's the consequence? The fact that we considered the macroeconomic prognosis as given in the assessment of the feasibility of revenue appropriations and examined whether the planned revenues were determined in line with government forecasts, taking into account legislative changes. A similar solution was also followed when assessing the merits of expenditure appropriations that are closely linked to macroeconomic forecasts, such as pension increases or pension premium rates. In the case of appropriations which are not closely linked to macroeconomic factors, we have been able to assess their merits on the basis of an assessment of their support for calculations and measures. The rules for the classification of each appropriations are set out in the public methodology that can be downloaded from our website. It follows from the above that the draft budget law is justified by the SAO if the following three conditions are met: the bill is based on realistic macroeconomic assumptions; its appropriations are consistent with the macroeconomic projections and legislative changes; and its appropriations are based on detailed calculations and measures and confirm that revenue appropriations can be made available and that expenditure appropriations are sufficient to carry out the public function. Of course, the question arises that it is appropriate to discuss next year's budget as early as this summer, i.e. at a time when there is a great deal of uncertainty about not only the 2021 macroeconomic outlook, but even the economic processes for. My answer to this question is a definite yes, and even in my interview in March at the time of the emergency, I stressed that the adoption of the first half of next year's budget is a very important tool to address the economic and social problems caused by the virus. This is appropriate because, in doing so, the Parliament will remove more uncertainty. First, I would like to point out that the draft budget law sets out the amount of money that the State can spend in 2021 to mitigate the harmful effects of the Covid-19 virus and to re-launch the economy. This is mainly determined by three factors: how much deficit is appropriate; what amount can be transferred from other objectives to these two tasks so that the necessary public tasks can be achieved; and what the dynamics of the 2021 rebound will be. [[9.00]] However, the latter is not entirely independent, as the scale and effectiveness of the economic and disease control programmes financed by the budget depends to a large extent on how quickly the economy will recover. So the government and the Parliament, in your hands, have this device here. The draft budget law answers all three questions. Now, let's get this straight. The answer to the magnitude of the deficit is that the deficit calculated according to the EU methodology should not be higher than the ceiling set in the European Union, i.e. 3 per cent of GDP, but much less, since in 2021 it will still be necessary to spend more than the state's revenues in order to boost the economy and alleviate the social problems caused by the epidemic. Of course, the question arises why the state does not spend any more, since the deficit restriction has been temporarily suspended by the Council of the European Union. In addition to the deficit target of less than 3 per cent, there are several arguments. The first is that the European Union did not by accident set the cap on the deficit as a percentage of GDP, because the crossing of this threshold refers to a serious imbalance in a national economy which is usually associated with other imbalances. The second reason, therefore, is that the deficit target below 3 percent is a strong signal to the international community, and the Hungarian economy will return to a sustainable growth path as early as 2021. This signal will have an important value for Hungary's international competitiveness, especially because few countries will be able to set such a goal next year. Thirdly, the deficit of less than HUF 1500 billion is what the expected increase in domestic savings can safely finance. Consequently, this deficit, the financing of which does not involve increasing our country's foreign indebtedness or contributing to inflation growth, can continue to reduce the dependency of the Hungarian economy abroad from 2021 onwards. Our own calculations also show that despite the decline in employment this year and the low wage increase rate, the fresh household savings of around HUF 1500 billion can be included in the financing of public debt in 2021 if the willingness of the population to save and the share of unit income to save can be maintained. The latter, however, is considered necessary to develop and introduce additional longer-term savings schemes that encourage the purchase of sovereign debt. By the way, the last two months of data show just positive, much more favourable data than was originally predicted by many. It follows that in 2021 it is about HUF 1500 billion, i.e. almost 3 percent of GDP, that the state can use in addition to revenues from the central system of public finances to boost the economy, help families, businesses and individual people. In addition, the State can contribute to reducing the burden on businesses by reducing certain tax rates and increasing tax incentives, especially if their income is spent on development and innovation. Let us not forget that Hungary must continue to pursue a tax reduction policy in this difficult situation. The bill also provides a clear answer to the question of how much money can be transferred from other objectives to economic protection and to mitigate the harmful effects of the epidemic, so that the necessary public tasks can be fulfilled. I think it is appropriate that next year's budget should keep and even broaden the three crises created in the event of an epidemic. base. The Economic Fund and the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund clearly show that the expenditure appropriations for these two funds are those that can be used directly to re-launch the economy and to effectively combat the epidemic. The integration of the National Employment Fund into the Economic Protection Fund is a clear message that the most important objective of economic protection is to preserve jobs, i.e. create new jobs. However, this is an organic process, i.e. not only the appropriations of the economic protection employment fund, but the objective of increasing employment is behind all the appropriations of the Economic Protection Fund. The literature refers to government investment as a classic tool for economic recovery, and therefore, as appropriate, the Economic Protection Fund is part of the civil engineering investment in the interests of budgetary bodies. In addition, with the government's proposal, however, support for the development of municipalities and non-governmental organisations was also included in the fund, obviously stimulating the involvement of its resources and involving it in this objective. It is clear that these can be catalysts for the recovery of the economy, even if these appropriations provide cover for the continuation of years of development, as they say that the process will not break, investment markets will continue to provide incentives from the demand side. Their positive impact will be explained not only in 2021 but already in 2020 as they send a clear message to economic operators and non-state organisations and budgetary bodies that life will not stop in Hungary and can count on significant budgetary support for their development in 2021. In previous years, the SAO raised a deficiency if there was no detailed calculation of development aid. In the current situation, the consolidated appropriations, which have not yet been broken down for specific developments, are a good solution, as this increases the flexibility of the budget in a situation of uncertainty. In a fashionable word, this is called "resilience," i.e. the ability to react quickly and effectively under the influence of an external shock. Just last year, the Court published a study on the resilience of budgetary management, and presented as one of the instruments of flexibility the planning of the creation of similar programmes as a consolidated appropriation, which, if necessary, will facilitate transfers between specific programmes and the actual use of resources, as appropriate. It is, of course, also important that detailed calculations are made of the use of the combined appropriations before implementation and these uses are accompanied by sufficient transparency and, if necessary, a reschedule of the programmes to which the budget for 2021 can only provide less support for predictability and transparency in the case of a previously planned or already decided government decision. The Economic Fund also supports social objectives that have a direct economic recovery effect. In the case of housing subsidies of nearly HUF 250 billion, the double objective is obvious. However, the bill also lists the pension premium and the support of the 13th month's pension recovery plus the first week's part, fully justified. In the international literature on the management of the epidemic, the so-called helicopter money was soon proposed to give the state a larger amount of money to all people who spend it, which will increase consumption and boost the economy. The Hungarian government has carefully chosen not this socially unfair solution, but to give extra income to pensioners, thereby increasing the purchasing power of a layer that is particularly sensitive to the economic consequences of the epidemic. In this way, the gradual retirement of the 13th month pension, in addition to increasing the standard of living of pensioners, will give a recurring boost to the growth of consumption over the next four years and will thus stimulate the economy. [[9.10]] The combination of the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund also has a message value. It states that the epidemic has assessed the importance of health and that a significant increase in health expenditure was not needed on a one-off basis in 2020, but that the objective of the modernisation of health and the development of the country's sustainability will be maintained as soon as the acute phase of the epidemic is over. In essence, the former Health Insurance Fund is added to a part of an epidemiological protection fund, i.e. the health sector will have additional resources to finance its increased tasks as a result of the epidemic in the next year's budget. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. Developments and other expenditure financed by the Economic Protection Fund are certainly an important contribution to the recovery of the economy. However, the success of this, as I mentioned earlier, depends not only on Hungary, but also on the European and global environment, which depends to a large extent on how quickly the Hungarian economy recovers. As a result, there are serious risks to the economic prognosis on which the draft budget law is based. Therefore, the assessment of the adequacy of reserves was also highlighted when the SAO's opinion was drawn up. In addition to the provision to cover wage increases measures, central reserves are allocated an amount equivalent to half a percentage of GDP for exceptional measures and for economic protection, investment preparation and disease control tasks. According to the audit assessment, the level of these reserves is sufficient to address the risks that require an increase in budget expenditure. Of course, it would be pointless to include in the budget enough reserves to address the risk of several months of economic paralysis due to another severe wave of epidemics, since in this case the maintenance itself, i.e. a drastic reduction in budget expenditure, would hinder the rapid recovery of the economy. The SAO considered as a further reserve that the CDC from the European Union was planned with a zero HUF appropriation, i.e. any additional resources from the European Union in 2021, revenue can serve to boost the economy, and additional expenditure to preserve and expand jobs may be a source of additional leverage without increasing the deficit of public finances. However, the 2021 budget does not contain a reserve whose primary purpose is to ensure compliance with the budget deficit target and compliance with the direct sovereign debt rule. I have already stated that in order to comply with the sovereign debt rule, there is room for manoeuvre in excess of 3 per cent of GDP, and consequently this lack of reserve does not jeopardise the fulfilment of the requirement to reduce the sovereign debt indicator, with an implicit reserve of HUF 1600 billion. However, no such margin is available for meeting the deficit target. However, the obligation to comply with EU standards has been suspended by the Council of the European Union, which is likely to continue to be suspended in 2021 in the light of the European Union's recovery efforts. Consequently, in order to meet the deficit target, it is not appropriate to include in the budget a reserve that detracts resources from measures to boost the economy. This does not mean, of course, that the deficit target required by the law does not have to be respected, i.e. that in 2021 disciplined budgetary management should continue and that expenditure appropriations should not be overspended. Dear Parliament, Following the general assessment, I will address some specific findings of the SAO's opinion. The total revenue of the audit on which the opinion is based covers 88,6 per cent and 85.97 per cent of the expenditure, focusing on the relevant items. In preparing the draft law on Hungary's central budget next year, the planning organisations complied with the legal requirements. The structure of the bill on the central budget for 2021 is in line with the legislative requirements. More than 97 percent of the revenue appropriations in the bill are well-founded, with only 2.5 percent being partially well-founded. Direct revenue appropriations are justified and can be carried out except for corporate tax. The corporate tax forecast is expected to be partially well-founded and underachieved and therefore risky. More than 95 per cent of expenditure appropriations are also well-founded, 4 per cent in part and only 0.3 per cent are not justified. The amount of revenue appropriations classified as risky in the course of the audit exceeds HUF 500 billion, but the amount of the risk is about HUF 36 billion, while the actual risk value of the amount exceeding HUF 500 billion is HUF 31.6 billion for the expenditure appropriations classified as risky. Risky expenditure appropriations include Eximbank Zrt. interest compensation and expenditure appropriations for tied aid loans. Increasing the validity of expenditure appropriations requires changes to previous government decisions and development programmes in cases where appropriations are reduced compared to previous plans. Expenditure on chapters, social security, revenue and expenditure relating to debt services and EU grants, with a few exceptions, which I am about to mention, is well founded. Except in this case, the EEA and Norwegian financing mechanisms are based on the Fund of 14-20, the second part of the Swiss-Hungarian cooperation programme and the expenditure appropriations for the Cohesion Policy operational programmes for the year 21-27. With regard to the chapters, except for the appropriations for animal, plant and GMO compensation, the appropriations for expenditure are well-founded, which is the area of which the merits are questionable. However, the revenue and expenditure appropriations for State property and the revenue and expenditure appropriations for the National Earth Fund are well-founded. There is a risk in terms of expenditure, and it has been shown for years now that the area that could be fulfilled could deviate from the appropriations without any modification is 43 per cent of the total, and we consider that their compliance should be based on further measures. As regards local authorities, the Court assessed the opinion of the bill as to whether the appropriations for the central budgetary support of the municipalities were well-founded. The bill set an expenditure allocation of HUF 857,8 billion to support local authorities, which represents an increase of 16.1 percent compared to the EUR 739 billion allocation in 20th year. Expenditure appropriations are well-founded and are expected to be sufficient to carry out the public task. This does not, of course, mean that, as a result of the decline in their revenues and the increase in their tasks, some municipalities should not be forced to save money, should not consider reschedule developments or postpone certain voluntary tasks, i.e. to manage them. However, the requirement for efficient and careful planning also exists for central budgetary bodies, as the appropriations transferred this year for the control of the epidemic were typically not recovered in 2021. Rethinking and reorganising the budget is an important requirement for all economic operators. This is greatly helped by the fact that the numbers of the central budget for 2021 will rise to legal force as early as the summer of 2020, i.e. they can serve as a basis for all members, businesses and institutions of Hungarian society to prepare their own plans for 21st year, which can be a sure starting point in an uncertain situation after the outbreak. I therefore propose to the Honourable Parliament that it adopt by July the law on Hungary's central budget for 2021, as it can serve as a compass for the relaunch of the entire Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.20]]
u2020-06-10-6	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, in a 30-minute timeframe. Mr. President, please. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-7	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Minister, I thank you for the opportunity, on behalf of the Fiscal Council, to fulfil my obligation to summarise orally and justify the Council's opinion on the draft bill for the budget for 2021. The Council established and published its opinion on this matter to the Government at its meeting on 21 May 2020. The government has given me a meaningful answer, which I will address later. I must also advance the fact that there is no fundamental difference between the draft that the Council has seen and the bill that has been tabled, only a few minor so-called null and void amendments have been made. Overall, neither the government deficit nor the nominal size of the projected government debt under the EU methodology and thus its GDP-proportional value have changed. Thus, the opinion of the Council also applies to the bill submitted to Parliament. On the basis of the mandate given by our Board in the Fundamental Law, the budget, its macroeconomic background, has been examined in unity again, its revenue and expenditure has been analysed in terms of balance requirements, the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule, and has not entered into the classification of the distribution policy. Of course, in all of this, it was inevitable to take into account the effects of a coronal virus epidemic. Dear Parliament, The Council concluded that the appropriations in the 2021 budget are essentially in line with the preliminary fact data for 2019, but there is also a link with the expected data for 2020, which can already reflect the epidemic and, if it can be judged today, also the consequence of a reduction in revenue, re-alignment and increase in expenditure. In addition, the 2021 appropriations will build on the macroeconomic parameters expected for 2020 and planned for 2021. The Council, also fulfilling its obligation under the Stability Act, could not avoid assessing in advance the implementation of the 2019 Budget Act in the light of the most important links, prior to the negotiation of the Final Accountancy Bill. The growth rate in the national economy for 2019 exceeded government expectations and the so-called forecast consensus at the time of the adoption of the budget, due, inter alia, to a more dynamic growth in consumption and investment activity than expected. The Hungarian economy, keeping its momentum for several years, continued to improve its performance by 4.9 percent in 2019 and its foundations continued to grow. We were able to counterbalance the effects of the negative external environment. The expansion of the economy was significantly higher than the growth of the European Union, the euro zone and even the region, thus continuing to catch up in recent years, giving a strong starting position by 2020. The revenues of the central sub-scheme of general government in 2019 were significantly above both the statutory appropriations and the previous year's performance. This wage-related tax and contribution revenue has contributed to a dynamic increase in earnings and employment, while consumption taxes have continued to increase investment and consumption, as well as higher inflation than anticipated, as well as tax discipline, tax awareness, and the whitening of the economy. This is how it was possible to continue supporting important social objectives. Some of the expenditure was incurred in December, increasing the moderate cash flow deficit until November. At the same time, the advance in funding has reduced the burden on the budgets of the coming years. The result-based deficit became 2 per cent of GDP in 2019, which is higher than the 1.8 per cent target set by the Budget Act. However, the relevant EU standards and corresponding domestic standards have been fulfilled for the eighth year now. At the same time, the so-called structural deficit resulting from the elimination of one-off items became higher in the Convergence Programme as a medium-term budgetary target for the years 2017-2019, thus the implementation of the Stability Act. The government debt ratio decreased from 69 per cent at the end of 2018 to 65 per cent by the end of 2019.It meets both the rules of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act and the criteria of the European Union for the reduction of government debt. The Council considered it favourable that the central subsystem's debt continued to decline, the foreign exchange ratio became 17.3 percent, and the share of domestic investors increased. Within the latter, the share of sovereign debt purchased by the population has already exceeded 30% as a result of the incentive government measures. This has further reduced the country's external vulnerability. Dear House, The Council, as a direct base of the 2021 budget, analysed the macroeconomic and general government processes for 2020, the impact of the coronal virus epidemic. Here again, allow a detour in a nutshell. On budgetary measures relating to the economic impact of the Covid-19 epidemic, the Ministry of Finance informed the Fiscal Council already in mid-April 2020. In view of the extraordinary circumstances, our body has developed its opinion in an online working relationship. I would direct your attention to two points. The Council agreed that interventions should cover three major areas: addressing the health challenge, compensating for the negative effects associated with the inevitable slowdown of the economy and re-launching the economy after the emergency. In addition, he stressed again -: "Thanks to the successful economic policy of the last decade and the efforts of the Hungarian economy, our country is able to respond to the epidemic and its economic consequences in a strong and resilient state. The Council was able to base its assessment of the forecast for 2020 and 2021 on its opinion. Dear House, The government has built the 2020 budget on 4 percent economic growth, but the coronal virus epidemic has changed expectations to a large extent, as is known. On the basis of the available model calculations, the current economic performance for 2020 is projected to be between plus 3 and minus 7 per cent, and therefore the Council has not been able to rely on analytical consensus in its opinion on the 2020 macro-economic path. [[9.30]] The government's expectation for this year implies a well-known 3 percent reduction in GDP. This is, in our view, a conservative forecast, given the median waiting of other institutions and experts, as an acceptable planning basis. The growth was high in the first two months of this year. The economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic has resulted in a significant slowdown since March. According to the first four months of 2020 the general government deficit without municipalities was significantly higher than in previous years. This was mainly due to higher EU spending and lower EU revenues, and it has already included part of the expenditure on the control of the coronal virus epidemic. Taxes on consumption and wage-related taxes and levies increased significantly during the first three months, but dynamics already decreased significantly in April. The amount of social contribution tax and contributions has also decreased compared to a year earlier, to which the lower rate has also contributed. From the budgetary point of view, it is positive that overall turnover tax and personal income tax revenues still increased in April. In May and June, the effects of the coronal virus epidemic are expected to be stronger because they are based on the economic processes in April and May. The consequences of the coronal virus epidemic have an impact on the budget on two channels: on the one hand, the slowdown in economic growth reduces tax bases and requires a targeted reduction of certain taxes, and on the other hand, the health emergency and the management of economic impacts are causing an increase in expenditure. As a result, the government increased the deficit target of the 2020 budget from 1 per cent of GDP to 3.8 per cent of GDP. In this way, the Council of the European Union has made use of the option, which, recognising the need for State intervention, has put in place the discharge clause on budgetary rules at EU level. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Fiscal Council examined the elements of the macroeconomic path when assessing the soundness of the 2021 budget. In addition to the evaluations of the State Audit Office of Hungary and the National Bank of Hungary, it took into account the data contained in Hungary's convergence programme for 2020-2024, the projections prepared by the European Commission, the OECD and the IMF, as well as the research and expert analyses carried out under the responsibility of the Council Secretariat. The Council considered the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic to be a determining factor for the budget planning for 2021, as I mentioned, in particular, the prospects mentioned above in 2020 as the base. It considered it beneficial that, although the international and domestic forecasts of the 2021 economic processes differ significantly, they are consistent in the fact that next year there will be growth again. The government prognosis is based on the fact that, after a temporary decline, the Hungarian economy will again increase significantly in 2021 and the economic performance exceeds the 2019 level. The Council considers that this can be achieved if the expansion of consumption is as planned, large investments continue and the external trade is not disturbed by administrative and supply-side constraints. There are therefore both positive and negative risks, very much dependent on the performance of the second half of 2020, the re-start. Today, it cannot be ruled out that the start of the economy will be fast, creating a better base for the next year. I must add that the Council, as this is lacking in well-founded international information everywhere in the world, could not consider the possibility of a new, very serious wave of epidemics within a short period of time. This will create a new situation that will bring back the steps aimed at reducing socio-economic impacts directly, of course rewriting both the macroeconomic path and the budget. Parliament on budgetary issues! Ladies and Gentlemen, The Council noted that the budget for 2021 focused on maintaining the results achieved so far and fiscal security, while at the same time boosting the economy, supporting sectors affected by the epidemic, preserving jobs, creating new ones, and protecting and improving the situation of families and pensioners. According to the Council, revenue appropriations correspond to the underlying macroeconomic projections. Among the most significant revenue groups, the Tao, kata, kiva, and I can categorize, among the taxes on consumption, VAT and excise duties, as well as the personal income tax payments of the population, are higher than the appropriations for 2020 that are not yet counted against the effects of the crisis. At the same time, the Council noted that if macroeconomic expectations are not or only partially met, their effects will be reflected, to the greatest extent in the general turnover tax, social contribution tax and contributions, as well as in personal income tax. Therefore, there is a need for high government monitoring of revenue developments, to compensate for any revenue losses that may occur. In addition, the Council considered it appropriate to base further calculations on the planned appropriations of revenue not directly dependent on the indicators of the economic projections. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to stressing repeatedly that it still does not classify the distribution policy in the budget, the Fiscal Council considered that the modest increase in budget expenditure in 2021 compared to the actual and expected achievement of the previous two years was in line with the objective of continuously reducing public finances. The central subsystem will continue to spend more on operational purposes than the previous year's appropriations in 2021 of its expenditure broken down into three large groups, while less on the stockpiling tasks from domestic sources and on developments financed by the European Union. In the opinion of the Council, expenditure reflects the continued need for programmes to boost the economy, preserve jobs and create new jobs. The Economic Protection Fund, which was set up as a separate budget chapter in 2020, will also serve to protect and restart the economy in 2021. This includes the Employment Fund for Economic Protection Employment, so that job preservation and the creation of new jobs are consistent. It is also important that the economic security fund contains a significant amount of freely used reserves. It will also coordinate the control of the epidemic and the operation of the health care system in the 2021 budget with the establishment of a new fund, the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund. The Health Insurance Fund is the backbone of this and the total amount of the retail tax and the motor vehicle tax is the income of the Fund; there are also free reserves in this fund. They shall ensure that protection against the epidemic is not prevented by a financial nature in 2021. [[9.40]] The appropriations will continue to guarantee the achievement of the objectives of family protection next year. There is more money available to improve the income situation of pensioners, to maintain elderly security than we have heard. More resources are used to increase the efficiency of the health care system, to improve the financial value of the people working here and to improve the sustainability of the financing system. I would like to emphasise the implementation of careers in some new areas that have already started. The budget provides opportunities for a number of improvements, including investment in national and law enforcement. The programmes that have already been launched can continue and the high investment rate can be maintained. Dear Parliament, The Council supported the objective of meeting the 3 per cent requirement of the Stability Act in accordance with the EU methodology for 2021 and of not exceeding the same level of EU reference value, but of approaching this value in order to ensure budgetary expenditure and tax facilitations necessary to boost the economy. However, the deficit-to-GDP deficit target thus planned for 2021 was considered to be met if, in areas where appropriations are reduced compared to the initial appropriations for 2020, appropriate conservation measures were taken and, in addition, the safe planning of expenditure appropriations opened from above was considered essential. According to the government's response to the Council's opinion, the budgetary institutions had to achieve savings in the process of combating the epidemic as early as 2020. These are included in the budget for 2021 and a number of deferred programmes have been allocated less than the previous year. With regard to the so-called top-up appropriations, the government replied that in this respect they had acted with due caution in terms of planning, because they proposed an appropriate increase in both the appropriations for pensions and the reimbursement of medicinal products and in support of Community transport. However, the Fiscal Council considered that the worse economic situation resulting from the possible prolongation of the epidemic could result in less revenue than envisaged and more crisis management expenditure. These risks are clearly only partially covered by reserves of 0.5 per cent of GDP. The Council therefore recommended considering the designation at the level of each chapter of appropriations committed to spending only if the economic and budgetary processes for 2020 were to evolve in line with or more favourable to the government projections. In this way, it is possible to avoid both excessive provision of reserves and, if not, the need for decision-makers to close appropriations or increase revenue by year to achieve budgetary balance. As a response to the document submitted, the Council's perception of the reserve is a nuance different from that of the financial government, who believes that such a tightening would hinder recovery. Of course, the members of the KT are also aware that the greater reserve would take resources away from economic growth, but our recommendation does not pose such a risk, but we believe that flexibility would provide greater security. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Budgetary Council considered it a forward-looking exercise that the operational part balance in the central subsystem, divided into three parts, would be zero in the fourth year and a cash deficit would only arise in the stockpiling and the EU budget. The planned deficit without so-called structural, one-off revenues is back to high, well above the target, but this was considered justified by the Council's need to raise the resources needed to deal with the epidemic. At the same time, it saw that, as of 2021, the structural deficit criterion could be met in the foreseeable future, with the continuation of sustainability-enhancing economic recovery programmes, returning to a high-speed growth path for the economy. The Council noted that the trend in the decline in government debt-to-GDP ratio in 2011-2019 is expected to be temporarily reversed in 2020 due to the deterioration of the macroeconomic path and to rise again to more than 72%. The Council considered it important that the downward trend in the sovereign debt ratio would return and would decrease to 69.3 per cent by the end of 2021. The projected reduction of 3.3 percentage points is, in our view, an appropriate margin of manoeuvre for the fulfilment of the government debt rule of the Fundamental Law and the requirement of the Stability Act, even in the event that public debt or GDP are slightly less favourable than planned. However, according to the Council, the value of the indicator may therefore be below the 60% threshold laid down in the European Union's rules in 2024 a little later than planned. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The Council's findings can be summarised as reflecting the efforts needed in the current situation to keep the economy on its feet, as well as the functioning of public services, and otherwise to maintain the balance of public finances. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance and his colleagues for the fact that the Council's work has been greatly assisted at this time as well. I would like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank, the secretariat of the Council, the asked analysts and experts of certain economic institutions for supporting the broad professional basis of the Council's opinion through independent, alternative macroeconomic and public finance model calculations and sensitivity studies. Dear Parliament! Thanking you for your attention, I wish you, on behalf of the Council, and on my part, good work in discussing the proposal of the 2021 Budget Act and the related amendments. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-10-8	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. During the negotiations of the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2021, the Vice-Presidents of Parliament are expected to participate in the debate. The Members of the Vice-Presidents shall, in the event of their opposition, be allowed to hold the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament, which will allow us to hold the meeting of the Parliament during the further negotiations of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the group. [[9.50]]
u2020-06-10-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Buddha said, "If you want to go fast, go on your own; if you want to go far, you should choose a good companion." Looking at the draft budget for 2021, I see that the Ministry of Finance and the Government want to get far away and have gathered a good company, because they have submitted a very thorough, detailed draft budget to Parliament, which is calculated for each expected event of the extraordinary situation, so I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues very much for this. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget before us is a budget for economic protection. It was made at a time when an unexpected virus, the coronal virus, caused a pandemic, not only threatened the health and life of people, but also imposed a burden on national economies that had not been experienced before. We had to take extraordinary measures in this exceptional situation, and although we have already managed to recover the country that was taken over in ruins after the financial and economic crisis in 2008-2009, all international analysts agree that this economic crisis was different from the world crisis at the time. The focus of the government's budget is, of course, on the fight against the epidemic and the re-launch of the economy that has been in difficulty with the coronal virus epidemic. For the government, it is, of course, the lives of the people, the safety of the people, the protection of the health of the people. For this reason, the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund includes the resources necessary for the control of the epidemic and the functioning of the health care system. Our priority is to ensure that the Hungarian economy can return to its former European career as soon as possible. This is the goal of Hungary's biggest economic protection programme, which will continue to be implemented in 2021 after this year. The programme particularly supports the protection of jobs and the creation of new jobs. The government's aim is very right, and the Fidesz fraction fully supports the need to create as many jobs as the epidemic has taken. It is important for us that Hungary continues to be family-friendly and therefore the support of children and families raising children remains a priority objective of the 2021 budget and continues to provide its growing support. As Minister pointed out in his expo, the Hungarian government's family-friendly tax policy is unique throughout Europe, since it accounts for 4.5 percent of GDP, which Hungarian families can benefit from. In response to the economic situation and economic difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the government will include in the economic protection action plan resources to protect the economy and re-launch the economy. Together, the measures of the programme move about 20 percent of the total annual GDP of Hungary in the years 2020-2021-22 and 23 respectively. Ladies and Gentlemen, We can all be proud of this, because there are two Member States in the European Union, which have launched a similar or greater economic protection action plan: the Czech Republic, which, like us, accounts for 20 percent, slightly more than 20.8 percent of GDP, and Germany, which spends 32.31 percent of GDP-related resources to protect and restart its national economy. Apart from us, apart from these three countries, all across Europe there are ten nation states whose government considered it justified to transfer more than 10 percent of resources. The others have adopted an economic protection plan for less than 10% of GDP, which I must think is not taken seriously enough of the economic effects of the virus and will not succeed in re-launching the economy, since in order to break out of this extraordinary situation, much higher than average resources must be concentrated on economic growth. Of course, the government continues to regard the restoration of full employment as an important goal. In 2010, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised that in ten years the government would create one million new jobs in Hungary. This was then received with clarity by the opposition representatives. This shows how seriously they take the problems of Hungarian society. Ladies and Gentlemen, Over the last nine years, the government has created 840,000 new jobs and we were close to reaching full employment in Hungary. I think we can all be proud of that. The budget for economic protection provides funding for priority programmes, development, investments and measures to promote employment through the Economic Protection Fund in 2021 for more than HUF 2550 billion. The government rightly continues to believe in a policy of tax reduction. We have seen what the operation of left-wing governments, which, in times of crisis, instead of reducing the burden on people and businesses, has led to tax increases, wage cuts and the withdrawal of the 13th month pension, has led to. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right!]] We have seen that it has led nowhere, more precisely, to the total bankruptcy and insolvency of the country. The Hungarian Government rightly does not deviate from its earlier promises in times of crisis. In a unique way, a tripartite agreement was also concluded in Europe in 2016 between representatives of the Hungarian government, employers and employees, which announced a long-term tax and contribution reduction programme for wages. I am very pleased, Minister, that, despite the crisis and the difficult economic situation, the government has not backed down and will continue to deliver on its promises in the wage agreement, the tax and contribution reduction in 2021. The key of the small company tax, the kiva, will be reduced to 11 percent from 1 January 2021, which will make it easier for nearly 40,000 companies. In times of crisis, therefore, there is no need for austerity, so the government has developed an economic protection programme that allows the economy to recover, so that the financial situation of society does not deteriorate. Next year, there will be more than HUF 352 billion for family tax relief and the first couple's benefit. In addition, the government will spend HUF 24 billion next year to ensure that mothers with four children have no personal income tax. As part of the family tax relief, since 2011, the House has remained with Hungarian families for HUF 2900 billion. As part of the family and pension protection programme, the 13th month pension will be restored in four steps from 2021 onwards. So what the Socialists have taken from pensioners is now being returned to them by the Hungarian government. In February 2021, in addition to the January pension, pensioners will receive a week's pension. The same will happen in 2022, 2023 and 2024. Thus, from 2024 some 2.6 million pensioners can farm a full month more pensions. In 2021, the Hungarian budget will spend HUF 77 billion on these pension increases. Dear House, One of the key pillars of the budget is the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund, which includes the resources needed to protect against the epidemic and to run the health care system. This fund, ladies and gentlemen, can be financed from HUF 3000 billion. The Fund shall include all resources covering, inter alia, basic care, outpatient and inpatient care systems, pharmaceutical expenditure and cash benefits. Protection against an epidemic is the whole country, the nation's common cause. In the context of common burden-sharing, the fund's revenue is the total revenue of the retail tax and the motor vehicle tax, thus ensuring that the control of the epidemic is not a financial obstacle in 2021. [[10.00]] If we look at the main figures of next year's budget, ladies and gentlemen, we see that all areas outside the mentioned family support, the Economic Fund and the health and disease control basis, i.e. all areas of society and the care system, will receive more support. I would like to highlight the public sector's wage increases, where next year the government plans to increase its resources by HUF 390 billion. This means that health workers, social workers, law enforcement workers, defence workers and education workers can expect more salaries in 2021 than before. If we look at, ladies and gentlemen, how much their wages have increased in the last ten years, I must say that there is no sector where the wages of workers in 2021 would not be more than double their salary in 2010. In the health sector, this represents even more than two and a half times the previous wages. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The coronal virus epidemic is a major challenge for countries around the world. The negative effects of the global epidemic will also override previous economic prospects in Hungary, so the primary objective of the Hungarian economic policy is to preserve the results achieved so far, to protect jobs, to create new jobs and to restart the economy. Thanks to the consistent economic policy of recent years, the Crown Virus epidemic has hit a resilient, balanced economy in March 2020 and Hungary is facing the challenges of strong fundamentals and sound public finances. In recent years, the general government deficit was achieved well within the reference value, below 3 per cent of gross domestic product, reaching 2 per cent in 2009. Meanwhile, public debt has been on a declining path since 2011, with a debt ratio falling to 66.3% of GDP last year. With regard to the financing of public debt, the role of foreigners and, at the same time, the foreign currency exposure of the budget have decreased significantly. The Hungarian economy has been on a stable and balanced growth path since 2013, with more than 30 percent growth over the period. In 2019 GDP increased by 4.9 percent in Hungary, making Hungary the second best performing country of the 27 Member States of the European Union. Ireland was the only one who preceded us. Last year, the investment rate reached a record rate of 28.6 percent. Due to capacity development, cost-effectiveness, industry grew above 5 per cent despite lower external demand. The growth rate of consumer prices was in line with the Hungarian National Bank's medium-term inflation objective. I have already spoken about the employment results set as a target in 2010, but I did not say that in 2019 the rate of unemployment in Hungary fell to 3.3 percent, with which we were once again one of the most successful countries in the European Union. Thanks to economic growth, we have succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, in catching up with the level of development of the Visegrád Four by 2019. Unfortunately, I have to say that we have caught up, because between 2008 and 2010 Hungary suffered such a significant lag, a disadvantage against these countries because of the bad performance of the Hungarian economy at that time, that it took nine years to get back to their level. We have managed to overcome this disadvantage, and after we start this crisis with a strong economy, the challenges of the crisis, we have a good chance of getting out of it as best we can with all the other countries. Even this year's figures show that, together with Poland, the best of the four Visegrád economies can break out of this crisis. Overall, this House, I must say that the budget for 2021, as I have said, is in perfect compliance with the position of the representatives of the Fidesz fraction, both in its structure and in its detail and in its objectives, so I must say that we will be able to support this proposal with pride. If I may, I would like to conclude with a quote from a sport. Michael Jordan, the world's best basketball player ever, said he thought society could be divided into three groups. There are people who have no purpose, really have no idea, and although they feel bad about their own situation, they obviously blame others for living in this situation. There is another group of society who believe that great things can be achieved, but they do not have the strength, determination and diligence to do so. Finally, there is the third, narrowest group of people, the most successful, who not only believe in the miracle but also can do everything for it. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the fractions of conservative parties, Fidesz and KDNP, belong to this group. I believe that with God's help, we can end a successful year despite extremely difficult circumstances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-10-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, another lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-10-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, I would also like to quote three quotes on what has been said: credible, reliable, enforceable. These are the three words on the budget that we have been talking about for a long time. One more I have written myself from the accounts of the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council. They said it could serve as a compass to restart the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last six years, we have become accustomed to the government always submitting and adopting the budget during the spring session. This is no different this year, although due to a serious economic downturn by a corona virus, we could rightly be asked why we did not postpone it to the autumn period. However, we also need to see that the epidemic cannot be a cause, nor can economic uncertainty be a reason for not submitting this proposal in the spring period, precisely because it is not worth giving up our competitive advantage acquired in previous years. On the one hand, the players of the Hungarian economy have been used to this practice in recent years, and on the other hand they have more time to plan and prepare for both businesses and households. In a situation where the world economy is facing a serious downturn, analysts say that our goal for this year is to achieve the goal that we have set for ourselves as quickly as possible when economic growth is restarted. That is why we call this budget the budget for economic protection, that the results and values we have achieved, for which we have fought together over the last ten years, will be achieved, exceeded and protected. What are these values, dear fellow Members? Compared to what has already been said, I can say nothing else, but perhaps it will also be repeated a few times, but the first is, in any case, the family policy measures that reflect the objectives of this civilian government. We are happy to say here in this House that they are still not in danger. In 2021, the government will also help to remove obstacles related to childbearing, create its own home, recognise the extra efforts of large families, support the balance between child rearing and employment, and encourage the strengthening and development of Hungarian small settlements. In 2021 nearly HUF 2295 billion is available in the budget to support Hungarian families. This is more than HUF 67 billion higher than the subsidies in this year's budget. Compared to 2010, the government spends two and a half times more than HUF 1360 billion on supporting Hungarian families. Thus, the home protection and home creation programme and the village CSOK will continue. Families with one child can receive a HUF 1 million credit for their mortgage loan, and for families with additional children, the amount that can be deducted from the loan debt for the third child will be HUF 4 million through state support. [[10.10]] The budget will provide some HUF 250 billion for the continuation of the home creation programme next year. Compared to 2010, the government increased the amount of housing subsidies by 70 percent. In 2020, households and businesses could benefit from a moratorium on loan repayment in order to strengthen the sense of family security. It also serves to protect household incomes by maximising the rate of credit for consumer loans by 5.9 per cent, as well as by extending child care premiums, childcare allowances, child-rearing allowances for the duration of the emergency. As the second most important value, I would also like to emphasise once again the government's objective of seeking full employment. As we always said, if there's work, there's everything. There is no better way to say that the creation and retention of jobs is another priority objective of the current budget. It has been said, but I would also like to reiterate that we have received a very serious legacy from the left, 12 percent unemployment in 2010. The goal of creating more than one million jobs in ten years was to be realised when this epidemic came, but I think that everyone can acknowledge the action that the Hungarian people have done in the past. Although there were many who doubted and even said that this could not be achieved, the past period has proved that working together can achieve the full employment of the Hungarian economy. I therefore believe that every effort must be made, and that we can see the impression of this in this bill, as well as what has been said, that everything that has been done and that is going to work in the direction that as many jobs will be lost, we will create as many jobs. This is exactly what the announced economic protection action plan is about, and how and how to restart the economy. As a third element, I would like to draw attention to the new family and pension protection programme, which will be extended in 2021. This new element is the restoration of the 13th month pension. In this House, there are many of us who remember the lies surrounding the creation and withdrawal of the 13th month pension; how deceitful the situation was for which I think the left should apologize every single day rather than attack these measures. The 13th month pension will be reinstated at four paces, and as a first step in 2021, pensioners will receive a one-week pension in addition to the January pension. During the next three years, i.e. 2024, pensioners will be entitled to a full one-month pension. We remember well the times before 2010 when, when the crisis came, the first thing that the government had to do was cut social transfers. The 13th month allowance was not only taken from pensioners, but also from all public sector workers. We therefore thank the Left for its crisis management councils, but with no thanks we do not ask for them. Given that the government planned the budget for next year by 4.8 percent, it will also be possible to provide next year's pension premium, the amount of which will be included in the budget on a separate basis. Overall, the amount of budgetary resources that can be spent on pensions will be around HUF 327 billion more than in this year's budget. The 2021 budget calculates inflation of 3 per cent, so the amount of pensions will increase by this amount, taking into account, of course, that pensioners can receive special support in the event of an increase in interim inflation. In recent years, we have seen many times that those on the left, but those on the very serious experts themselves, have seen budget proposals too optimistic, and each year they have been evaluated in such a way that they cannot be implemented, respected, and need to be changed a lot. I remember that in the last 20 years, in left-wing times, budget changes were made several times a year, even in the order of tens, and each closing bill was swarming with transfers, and we could see almost a new budget in the closing laws. However, I would like to say here in front of this House that we are amending the 2020 budget in 2020, but, as the Court of Auditors and the Budget Council have said in their opinion, the main figures do not change, only the government has made a transfer within the main figures. I think this also shows the quality of the budget planning that we have implemented over the past ten years. I would like to say here that I would also like to thank the House for the budget policy work carried out over the last ten years in the Ministry of Finance, and I would like to thank the very serious staff that has been involved in budget planning and budget preparation in recent years, and then its implementation. At the same time, the budget reserve of HUF 270 billion could provide a reassuring guarantee for the sustainability of next year's budget. This amount is more than half a percent of the gross domestic product, and this year, too, we have, quite rightly, formed it with a significant reserve. How well that came in handy during the outbreak of the corona virus when unexpected expenditures took place! And I would like to thank not only the Ministry, but also the Budget Council and the State Audit Office for the work done, because in recent years it has been a very serious team of experts who have expressed their views on the budgets each year, and not only when it was prepared, but they have had a continuous relationship with the Ministry of Finance and the Government, so that each year they have been able to provide the budget proposal with a clause in which it was proposed for adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I would like to note to you that, as you can see, the chairs and benches on the left are empty. However, I also remember the old budgetary negotiations in which the opposition calling itself constructive was involved, not only in certain stages of the debate, but also in the ministerial exposé. This has not been the case here, and this is not the first budgetary negotiation we have had in recent years, but, of course, you will be able to hear what and how it should be done differently in the next few minutes. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is what the debate is about...]] I could put the neighbor's budget in, they say in the country. It is our responsibility to be able to say this to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I make a good suggestion to this House to discuss and adopt the bill, I would also like to conclude with a sports example. [[10.20]] I think that those who have not spent the period of the epidemic preparing, when the tracks will reopen, will not be able to compete properly. If the Hungarian economy had not prepared in the same way as it did, we would not have expected the next period with confidence, but since we have done so, I propose to the Hungarian Parliament that it be accepted. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the first speaker of the group. Here you go.
u2020-06-10-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The government did not break the tradition and again presented the next year's budget in the spring session. It was more important for you to maintain the appearance of stability than to recognise that the economic, social and social impacts of the epidemic are just beginning to come to light. However, one thing shows that you are also counting on a kind of uncertainty factor, and this is a significant reduction in the transparency of the 2021 budget. They do not specify how much they want to spend, but they only speak in general terms, and they have drawn up lines, and chapter volumes are also characterised by narrowness. The latest communication trick: they simply don't name improvements. Nearly 10 percent of the total budget expenditure of HUF 23 500 billion is planned to be spent on development, but exactly what the HUF 2000 billion will be spent on can only be guessed. In recent years, we have seen what is important to you: visual investments and projects from which government-like oligarchs can break up a lot. There's a lot of things like that to mention, and I'm just gonna bring up a few. It may be unpleasant for you, too, to have the Budapest-Belgrád railway line on a separate line, so they added it to the railway development and hid the 132 billion forints there. Or we can also mention the 50 billion-dollar, modern cities, the 90 billion-dollar Hungarian village programme. The amounts are good, they sound good, but the proposal presented does not show at all how much settlements will be eligible for. However, we can see how much they are drawing from the municipalities. To mention just a few freaking measures: from this year on, not only until 2022, but until 2024, 40 percent of the vehicle tax so far remains in the settlements, ignoring the fact that there are small settlements for which this is the only source of income. By declaring a special economic zone, let's say they override the administrative boundaries of the settlements. By doing so, they are throwing themselves at the business tax that comes from it, and by doing so, they also override the election results of the individual local authorities. It is not the municipal authorities who will decide what developments are to be made in the settlement, but the majority of the county governments of the government will decide on it, as well as on their municipal use. The planned increase in the solidarity contribution to be paid is yet another dagger for the municipalities. Instead of HUF 43 billion this year, HUF 160 billion is planned to be collected next year. They do all this by involving local authorities with lower tax power in this group, so it will affect nearly 800 settlements in Hungary instead of 300 settlements so far. Let's face it: this amount is not compensated even by the fact that, by the way, the municipal sector is given a 16 per cent higher budget resource, especially because we already know according to which selection system the funding will be allocated. It's been like this for ten years, and it's just gonna increase the power of fidesz. All of this also anticipates trends in the coming years: making local governments impossible, bleeding out, bringing them to their knees. In last year's municipal elections, you lost strategic cities, and clearly you cannot forgive this country. With these measures, however, they punish not only the guilty settlements of the opposition, but all of them: 346 cities and 2809 municipalities. And not only do we have to mention withdrawals, but also the tying up of the powers of the local authorities, because what could we call it if you told us what to spend your own income on and what not? The government provides that the local authorities should use the input business tax primarily for Community transport, but they will no longer be able to finance the wages and public costs of municipal workers. They also do not care that this could lead to a human resources crisis in the offices. It would be impossible to do so in a normally functioning rule of law. You guys don't give a shit anymore. They push everything out of power, then they communicate, use government propaganda to correct the actions they've taken. Next year's budget also shows that they do not want to spend a penny less on government propaganda. Just like next year, 23.9 billion forints will be planned for this purpose. Next year, there will be posters, government ads. And here's just a parentheses sentence: local governments are being deprived of advertising, poster revenue, because these advertising money is being erased. We know that the oligarchs need the money to get more hotels, casinos and sailboats, and, of course, the media empire, which is said to be public service, can count on nearly HUF 100 billion in funding. Every year, this year, MTVA also reported on its activities at committee meetings. Sometimes I get the feeling that you live in an alternate reality. After all, what you do on M1 and others shows as public service information is simply government propaganda. We are almost 150 billion forints, which they intend to spend on government communication. For comparison only: 30 billion forints were planned for the Anti-CDC Fund. We have never questioned the importance of the protection and security of our country and the Hungarian people, but it certainly raises questions about the significant increase in defence and police cost plans in addition to the usual migrant risk. It can be seen that the biggest winners of the budget will be the military arms suppliers, as defence spending increases by 28 percent, from this point of view it can be said that military management will remain. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] We would like to believe that they will be dealing not only with the present, but also with the future. And the future lies in education. I think we can all agree on that. The next generations are facing particular challenges, in a globalised, accelerated world, we are responsible for the opportunities we provide for young people. Your shame is that, in the case of higher education, there is a withdrawal of funds in the draft budget law: instead of HUF 623 billion, this area will receive 592 billion. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Other aspects of the budget will be presented by my fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát. And finally, overall, I would like to conclude by saying that this bill tabled is a budget for revenge. A campaign against local governments and indirectly punishing Hungarian people because they dared to raise their voices in last year's municipal elections against the Orbán regime. This was the real national consultation, but you do not accept the results, but attack. They attack out of power and ruthlessly. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-10-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, another lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-10-15	Mr President, Dear House, In this case, the single opposition representative cries back the period between 2010 and 2014, when a budgetary debate was not about swinging the political club or the yellow shovel used in the sandbox, but, indeed, professional arguments fought against each other, and without highlighting factions, I can say that the most significant of all political communities basically put the emphasis on reasoning that may have been completely lost in recent years. [[10.30]] We must say that the series of production reports that we have heard here since the very beginning of the debate is not acceptable, nor is it acceptable to outline the full set of realities. Unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that, in the current course of the Hungarian political tribal wars, everyone communicates with his own followers in his own opinion bubble, and that the intention of getting out of these opinion bubbles is no longer observed. This is how it can happen that, although there are no doubt excellent professionals and well-meaning patriots among my pro-government fellows, state ministers, ministers, the final result, which they put on the table, is still about changing reality, and yet the image of escaping to a false reality. What are we talking about? For the last thirty years, Hungary has been a sea of lost opportunities and a flood of lost opportunities. In the last thirty years, no one has actually achieved a fundamental systemic change regardless of government color. We must say that if we look at our most fundamental, fundamental relations, then the results of governance since 2010 are not exemplary, but commute between sufficient and insufficient. Let us look at some areas where I do not think that sufficient can necessarily be voted. We are in the middle of a demographic winter, and although I am rhetorically in favour of the government's ideas and discount system for family policy, I do see that the rate of population loss has increased further, and that no movement has been achieved in terms of the number of live births, and Hungary has been frozen in terms of fertility rates for the last two to three years, and everyone knows our mortality figures. We can encounter devastating international statistics. Meanwhile, the government tolerates a housing, home-creation cataclysm that drives tens of thousands of young people abroad without exaggerating, and during today's expeditions we have not heard a single word about this and the messages sent to Hungarian youth. Thirdly, the government of Hungary is living with strong national rhetoric, but it is not implemented by any colonial subjects. After all, we can see that, in relation to the package of disease control, half of the support of the parties is being hijacked. Let's get to it. The municipalities are being sabotaged. I'm not saying how we're gonna get ahead of this, it's unsuitable shit. But what we can see is that he is already very, very fond of multi-company companies, while giving them hundreds and thousands of billion-dollar discounts on one side, and he has literally made Hungary a assembly plant, and on the other side he is trying to involve them under public burdens with a few ten billion-dollar appearances. What is becoming a category of disgustingness, however, is the servitude of this government with regard to banks. It is not enough for you to sign a EBRD pact in which you undertake not to cause a single forint of damage to the banking system treated as a sacred cow in order to settle the situation of the deprived victims, but you will impose on them an apparent special tax that they can write off of their taxes in five years and will help them through the Hungarian National Bank. Well, the colonial government of the banking system may not have had Hungary! And we see that the lie factory was born. Your public television, hundreds of different fidesz-bound media, are losing press trials against us, dozens of times against me, and we have to tell you that you are still replacing the operation of this lie factory with public money. This is part of budget planning, my fellow Members. When you're handing out state-of-the-art discounts, some of these benefits come back to fund a lie factory. We can therefore see that net Bolshevik methods have appeared in terms of press relations, whether we are thinking of Royal TV or of this media network. And economic policy is purely neoliberal. And maybe that's the biggest problem. The fundamental economic policy error of the Orbán governments is that they favor and benefit almost exclusively from the upper middle class, and they believe that these blessings will flow down to all social groups. I must inform you that this model has never succeeded anywhere in the world. Not in Hungary, either. Let's take a look at the discount system for the CSOK. I'm in favour of the CSOK discount system. However, what I see is that anyone who buys a newly built residential property is supported by this government with a maximum amount of money, millions or even ten million. But for a young man who's staying in his apartment and wanting to get his own apartment, you're not sending a message. They don't understand the problem. A sublet market crisis by Airbnb, a community-type solution, has not reached your level of consciousness, they cannot handle it, they do not understand the essence of the problem. You tolerate in an allegedly family-friendly country that more than half of Hungarian youths spend more than 40 percent of their income merely and exclusively on housing, and are surprised that they do not often have the children they want. Treat this problem. You have to understand. Start talking to the people involved. Ten million for new apartments on the residential park, if the budget fits, maybe. I would say that we should do something about the situation on the sublet market, but we should do something about the fact that you have abolished state support for housing savings. And what did they put in his place? My fellow Members, the button should be pressed now: Antal Rogán's house lotto was tried to replace it. It is quite amazing that they could not bring the young ones a meaningful message! Therefore, with all political ratings withdrawn, Jobbik has put together several professional packages for the future of Hungary and will put them in the form of budget amendments and will not rest until the government responds to them in substance. We have put together a package to protect the interests of Hungarian workers, because we see that their interests have somehow been put in the background during the epidemiological defense. When I was supposed to make up for 80 percent of the lost wages, even for those who have already lost their jobs, after a month and a half of waiting, the government submitted a package after a month and a half, once again, in Europe, a package was placed among the last, which can make up for about 10-20 percent of all lost wages according to professional estimates. Let us argue that this 10-20 percent is 8 percent or 25 percent, I am open to this debate but I want systemic solutions because they are not. In addition to the replacement of lost wages, unemployment benefits should be doubled, from three months to nine months. I believe that in a crisis, this is the provision of a ventilator for the patient, so that he can recover on his own. I reject aid-based social policy, I support making access to work and work-related tax items easier and reduced by any current Hungarian government, but I do see that hundreds of thousands cannot be allowed to die on the side of the road. So the two can prevail at the same time. The fact that this was not, in essence, taxable before 2010 has led to a very serious change in the minimum wage, and now it is. It is important to consider, if not by social transfers alone, how to facilitate the situation of our fellow countrymen seeking minimum wage, since the above-mentioned housing cataclysms and other social problems have led to a situation of complete social groups being overlooked by the government. Restoring cafeteria elements is a similar package of proposals for Jobbik. I would also like to say that we are presenting a package of public burdens which obliges both banks and multi-enterprises to make a proportionate payment both in terms of epidemiological control and in terms of the future, because it is not necessary for those micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to carry the country on their backs, to continue to secure, fortunately, two thirds of the jobs that can be expected to have the smallest amount of aid. I will not tell you a secret by putting a future protection package on the table, as your budget is nothing to the young Hungarians, the Hungarian future. In order to resolve this housing cataclysm, we recommend a public-based rental program, the. We are waiting for the program, which would also help to keep our countrymen working in the national strategic sectors without whom demographic change cannot be imagined. Support for access to higher education is absolutely insufficient for the last ten years. If a person sees the number of candidates falling not only for demographic reasons, but by more than 20 percent, he should think about it, and this reflection in this budget literally does not appear in any form. It is also obvious that if we want to help young Hungarians, we need to consider a Polish sample so that our working fellow workers aged 29 years or less do not pay personal income tax in Hungary. We must make sure that the emigration of young people is slowed down by all kinds of motivations, all kinds of modern economic policy instruments, and that no one is forced to leave. [[10.40]] Obviously, it is not possible to introduce a system of command control linked to a clot, but a multitude of motivations and factors can be put into this system: a rental program where the young Hungarians, if they use this service, can purchase their property at cost after six to eight years; a tax system where they are free of hair under the age of 29; a cafeteria system capable of supporting the mobility goal of young people at the same time as well as their stay at home; a support system that is equipped with smart devices for education; a support system capable of covering the loss of wages, whether it is a microbusiness operated by a Hungarian youth or a middle-aged or older compatriot who has fallen out of your sight, and they simply do not know that it is on the side of the road. Obviously, without public burdens, it is impossible to eliminate the colonial status of the Hungarian economy. We therefore expect you to implement public burdens both in terms of multi-enterprises and in terms of the banking system. I understand the loud national rhetoric, and I can see that in your eyes, respect for the exception, but this is a political product very often, since you were not on the national side at the height of 2010 and did not use such an argument system or rhetoric. I don't want to go back to thirty years ago, when they left a Trianon memorial because I believe that even the betrayals you committed can be exceeded. [[György Balla intervenes.]] But we have to tell you... you can yell in, you can burp in an argument. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] However, we can argue on sensible grounds, and we can finally achieve at least one national strategic minimum, my fellow Member. Support without top hat the flask baby program that can make it easier for many Hungarian couples and lead to a demographic turn! My fellow Members, no matter how angry we are at each other right now, that is not what matters from a historical perspective, from a bird's perspective, the national strategy matters. You must rise above your hatred, my fellow Member. Make sure that if you receive specific professional proposals, you can at least think about them and, depending on that, we can finally reach a common national minimum. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-10-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-10-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Lords of the President! I am the lucky or unfortunate Member during the budget speeches, who has the opportunity to speak for the first time after the speech of left-wing representatives. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, come on.]] Two new left-wing representatives have spoken before me. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's what I'm talking about!]] Anita Kőrösi surprised me. I've always described him as a person who, based on his professional background, mostly makes evaluable contributions to such economic issues; this time he's grown up to expectations and spoke in a whole different tone. From him I have heard this mildest expression, and we will mention that this budget is opaque, it can even move in a professional field; that this budget of revenge, revenge in his thinking is primarily for the municipalities, and I will also talk about it; that we are punishing people, obviously creating a budget with this conscious intention to punish people; and that it is a kind of war management. Now, if the new left-wing representatives have such passwords for this budget, what will be expected after me, when yesterday's left-wingers, representatives of MSZP, DK, Dialogue? I look forward to their application for this debate with interest. In the expozee, Minister Varga said that we are living in unusual times, and therefore we also need extraordinary measures. Unusual times, the fact that we are living in a time for which we cannot be prepared, I think there is no question for anyone. We have successfully fought the first phase of the epidemic, the epidemic threat: although we have 550 dead, which is just 550 more pain than it should be, yet I say that the epidemic has not escaped in Hungary as it happened in some countries of Europe, and I know that the government has taken measures in time, which, of course, have been followed by people, have been partners, have complied with. The result of this joint effort between the government and the people is that we have managed to manage this epidemic successfully. When we think about budgeting, then, of course, the debate will now be about dealing with the unexpected economic impact of this epidemic for days. I have been a Member of Parliament for 20 years, and I have experienced a budgetary or economic crisis during socialist governments. In the absence of time, I will not go back to 1995, the Bokros package could also be discussed from their period, but the global economic crisis in 2008 and its effects in Hungary should obviously be considered as an example, because there was an example of how the left would deal with such crises. For us, the question is that we need to go back to the methods used by the left at the time, or we need to follow the practice that we have followed since 2010 in dealing with a kind of crisis and dealing with an economic crisis. The economic crises so far, I can tell you, were caused by economic problems, which was also the global crisis in 2008. At that time Hungary was indebted to the neck, not by accident Hungary was the most tragically affected by the crisis at that time, in addition to Greece, these were the two EU Member States, which could be said to have been swept away by the crisis. This crisis, in which we are at this moment, does not result from the self-abuse of the economy, but from the health crisis, from the pandemic, is the economic projection of the situation caused by the epidemic. This is a kind of crisis that the world is obviously not prepared for, there will be a lot of lessons to be learned when we get through this crisis, and now the question is how we are dealing with this crisis. The Minister said that if we are living in extraordinary times, we also need extraordinary measures. The way I translate his thinking to myself is that I really see a new approach to extraordinary measures, and this is primarily due to the structure of the budget. So far, we've gotten used to the fact that our budget was truly broken down into ministry chapters, and they were placed there, let's say, development items never named each development item by name, because that would be completely unviable. The structure of the budget is new in that we follow the amended budget for 2020 because, in this budget, in the current budget, the government immediately established two funds to deal with the crisis, with its own decision, the Parliament will carry them forward by the end of the year, one of which is to deal with the economic crisis and the other is to deal with the health and epidemiological situation, and this is to be carried forward by the government in 2021; the structure of the budget is undoubtedly different. Therefore, to say on its own that this made the whole thing opaque, and yesterday was much more transparent, I may not be able to find any arguments for that. Congresswoman Anita Körősi has brought up the programme of the Hungarian village or the programme of modern cities for reasons, and I will return to them later, which are included in the budget now as they were a year ago. If I go back to 2009 or 2008, that is, ten years ago, because we saw a left-wing crisis management, it is worth recalling how the then crisis was dealt with by the then left-wing government, I mentioned it several times, and I repeat that one of the most important documents of the left-wing governments is 282/2008. Government Decree No.1, which has a beautiful, soundy title:. This Government Decree is about the announcement of the Agreement between the Republic of Hungary and the European Community. The internal content of the government decree tells us that we will receive EUR 20 billion from supranational force centers and economic power centers if we implement the decisions they expect us to make. By the end of 2008, Hungary lost its economic sovereignty in its entirety, and after we ran out of foreign money, Margaret Thatcher was quoted here: the problem with the socialists was that sooner or later they would run out of other people's money, which had happened by the end of 2008, and we had received the money from these supranational centers of power without a neck, and in 2008 they saw that there was little guarantee that Hungary would stay on its feet to pay back these funds, so they said that we would give you another 20 billion, because you were forced to do so, but under conditions: you can draw down this EUR 20 billion in small details, and that the country must fulfil the conditions that these force centres dictate. [[10.50]] I am referring to the freezing of wages here, in the public sector, the taking of wages for the 13th month, the temporary freezing of pensions in the case of pensions, the removal of the 13th month pension, and so on, the VAT increase, and many more items are included in this. So what we have seen is that the left-wing government is taking out loans for crisis management, and the borrowing obviously also means that they are indebted to the country, of course, but in a fire-fighting way, in some way, they are dealing with the problem by implementing a kind of distribution policy and temporarily transferring funds to various public finances in the context of crisis management. We said in 2008 that this road was impenetrable. We do not need to borrow loans from where we have the money, but from the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian economy, to get people a job, to create a work-based society, to provide people with income through work. This increased income, which reaches people, generates internal demand, and this internal demand will be a crucial source of growth. So when we choose our course now, we can't go back to what the left-wingers once showed us, they've already shown us repeatedly that it's untraceable. I think we need to follow the path that we've already succeeded in once. The President of the State Audit Office had a very clever reasoning for the 2021 budget: we want to keep the general government deficit target even in this very difficult situation, we do not want to go above 3 per cent, we have a deficit of 2.9 per cent. László Domokos said that we should go to the 3 percent deficit now, but we should not go beyond this deficit, even if we are encouraged to do so, so that the European Commission, who has kept it critically, especially against Hungary, has not had a hard time with us, because the government has been following this practice for ten years, and the deficit has always been set at less than 3 percent, and of course the government has always done so, or even has done so downhill, so at the end of the year, even more favorable figures have come out than we calculated at the start - ; the President of the Court of Auditors says that now in this crisis we have to spend it, so let us approach 3 percent, but let us not go beyond it, even if the European Commission would now temporarily allow this. In many places, they will choose this way, this way. When left-wing people say, and now I think I want to refer to their most extreme thinking here, let's say we divide minimum incomes to people without work, this could not be done other than taking credit and distributing incomes of this kind to people without work. I think that this is an inextricable path, that this type of attitude is contrary to human nature, so I say it is right that we aim to remain below 3 percent of the deficit, but we are approaching it when extra spending is needed this year. The expansion is planned for 4.8 percent. If we can do this and why we can't do it, then it will be true that a bounce-like increase is expected. The real question is, where do we have to bounce back from? Here I feel the greatest uncertainty about the depth that we will achieve from this point of view in 2020, because of course we know the first quarter figures, the Hungarian economy has increased by 2.2 percent, this is a very nice number in European comparison, 5 percent more than the average of the European Union, but these are first quarter figures. In April, the crisis was obviously bigger, in May it was bigger, and in June a recovery might be launched. The real question is what we will see at the end of the second quarter; of course, we will only see these numbers in the autumn. This is no reason to shift the budget, because as long as doctors tell us that there may be another epidemic, everyone is uncertain, obviously this budget should be planned on the basis of our experience so far, and it is also appropriate to establish and publish it at the rate that we have been accustomed to from the civilian government in the last ten years. The inflation deficit target is planned to be 3 percent. I note that we have always met these planned deficit targets over the last ten years, and I can even say that the country's budget is still prepared with a sufficiently large reserve, because it is half the size of GDP. By reaching back to 2009, I can say that at that time we were in the most unprepared and ill state possible. I was referring to one thing, our indebtedness. In 2019, this economic crisis, which is, of course, the crisis caused by the health epidemic, reached us at a time when, with a little exaggeration or no exaggeration, we can say that we are one of the European Union's engines in terms of growth. When I look at the growth figures, it is good to recall that the Hungarian economy grew by 4 percent in 2017, by 4.9 percent in 2018 and by 4.9 percent in 2019. I wish we could maintain such a pace in the long run, because that would be a catch-up for the developed world. By 2020, we are calculating that this will be minus 3 percent, so the decline is obvious for us compared to last year. Those who have analysed the budget here said that this is a conservative, realistic estimate, but what is most gratifying is that in the debate we are discussing now, we can say that next year we are calculating an increase of 4.8 percent, so we are going back to the situation we were in before the crisis. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The Minister also dominated the fact that a turn of growth occurred in 2013 and that the Hungarian economy has increased by 30 percent since 2013. He warns us to be cautious when we think about this budget when I look at the industrial production data reported by the institute. In April, we see that industrial production has decreased by 36.8 percent compared to the previous year's figures, and this is April, and I said that we do not see how far industrial production can go in this respect in the coming months. It is vehicle manufacturing that is most underachieved, but the electronics industry, the computer industry, the optical industry, the food industry, the beverage and tobacco industry are also showing significant reductions. There is only one sector where there was growth, it is sensible, it is the production of pharmaceuticals, because this was the origin of the crisis. We talked about it, and this is once again our crisis management, the success of our crisis management at the time, and this confirms that we are still doing something like this, and in nine years we have managed to create 840 000 jobs. I am one of them, and I have recognised it here several times, when the Prime Minister said, ten years ago, that we should be able to create a million jobs, and he just said that the Czech Republic was able to do so, that there was more employment in a country as populous as we were, that we would be able to do so, and that I too, as a pro-government representative, I said that I wish I could. What I see now is that we were able to do this, because the number of Hungarian employees rose to 4.5 million compared to 3.5 million at the time, and I add that a good part of that 3.5 million then employed did not pay taxes, so this indicates the tragic situation of the budget at the time, that even employees did not pay taxes, and now everyone pays taxes on the budget, and in this respect participates in sharing the burden. [[11.00]] The Minister also spoke about wage developments, because people are interested in this, of course, not in employment figures alone. They're interested in the fact that I'm employed, that wasn't the state yesterday, and it's a joyful situation. But obviously everyone lives on wages, so it is worth mentioning that in 2010 there were 132 thousand net wages in the country, which increased to 244 thousand in 2019. So 80 percent increase, 7 percent increase per year in net wages. Of course, in terms of wages, you can always say a larger number. I don't think for a second that this is the Canaan. We are so far from being able to reach it, but at this time, based on the facts, it is simply possible to say that the Hungarian employee has finally faced a dynamic wage increase. In 2010 unemployment figures were at dizzying heights, with unemployment falling to 11.7 per cent and 3,4 per cent in 2019. This is about what we can say is the state of total employment. We need to be able to go back here, because obviously this economic crisis from health care is temporarily increasing the number of unemployed, but we hope that, through the various forms of support, we will be able to wear out the increased number of unemployed relatively quickly. The issue of debt is a great cancer of Hungary. Even in the Kádár-éra, this country had a very large debt, much more debt than our competitors in Central and Eastern Europe. We'll always carry the burden of this. In this comparison, the government debt was above 80 per cent in 2010 and we managed to take it down to 66,3 per cent in 2019. After the temporary increase, we think that these numbers will be the same again. One of the biggest problems in the country was that we were not only in debt, but we were in debt to the rest of the world, with every risk, half of our debt in 2010 was in foreign currency, and this was the most vulnerable situation, and we managed to take it down to only 21 percent by 2019, which is a very manageable condition. If we look at expenditure items, this is always a debate, especially if this budget is declared opaque. Therefore, in order to help the left-wing people in their sights and to convince them, especially us students, we can state as a fact that each item of expenditure has more resources in 2021 than it had in the 2020 or previous budgets. Just some data. Families. For us, the most important issue, the key element of conservative Christian democracy policy, is social policy and family policy. We will spend 2295 billion in 2021 on what we call family policy, and that is 65 billion more in this economic crisis than we will in 2020. GPD-proportionally, that's 4.5 percent. There are no examples of a country spending 4.5 percent of GDP on family policy anywhere in Europe. If we do this consistently, we can do it over a long period of time, beyond the fact that the impact of this is already visible in demographic indicators, but it will also have a long-term impact on the reproduction of the population, which is a matter of fate for our future. There's no need to mention that about Trianon's anniversary. If we fill the part of the pool that we've been left with, it'll be ours if we don't fill it, we'll run out. This cannot happen and therefore this country must spend dynamically on family policy in the long term. Retirements. It's all about our parents. We spend 3907 billion on pensions in 2021, which is 327 billion more than a year ago. This is where we mention our efforts to restore and rebuild the 13th month pension, which is the pact, the Memorandum of Understanding I referred to, between the Hungarian government and our creditors, has taken and put on a different path. We will rebuild the 13th month pension by allowing pensioners to expect a one-week pension surplus each year in the years ahead. These figures are obviously included in the annual surplus mentioned above. This will mean that by 2024 we will be in a state of one month's pension plus all pensioners. The first phase will be experienced by pensioners in January of next year, 77 billion in itself, which will go to pensioners. As we calculate an increase of 4.8 percent, this means that we hope that next year will be another year when we will pay the pension premium to the pensioners again, it will be HUF 53 billion to the budget. For a year or two, the institution of the pension premium has been enjoyed by pensioners as a result of conservative Christian Democrat economic policy. Before that, this was only a legislative option, but its conditions were never created in the growth of the Hungarian economy and in the budget. Education costs 2227 billion, 2115 billion for health, 704 billion for protection, and 950 billion for law enforcement. The budget includes not only the resources to be allocated to pensioners, but also, of course, the possibility for public sector stakeholders to make additional wages or the public employment framework. So once again, in the case of expenditure, each item covers more than the items from a year ago. The two economic security funds are grouped into huge amounts. The economic security fund represents 2550 billion, and the health and epidemiological protection fund amounts to 3000 billion. In this latter, additional 138 billion are the items that provide for wage improvements for healers. Obviously, it is important to modernise the vehicle park of paramedics, to continue with the various public health programmes, to complete screening tests, and so on, and so on, and even in this 3000 billion item, there is a very secure reserve, which alone is 30 billion. In such a situation, should the limited epidemiological expenditure be packed with general expenditure on health care? I think it's rational, even if left-wing people say it'll make the whole thing invisible. We use such large amounts of epidemiological expenditure as a necessity, which also gives us the opportunity to shape the entire health system through these, by consciously shaping them. It is therefore appropriate to address these issues in a uniform manner, if you will. In my last thoughts, I would like to refer to the fact that, before I mention the municipalities, we are dealing with the economic crisis by continuing to focus on employment, increasing purchasing power through employment and by no means on borrowing. A week or two ago, when I was talking about amending this year's budget, I brought that up. I was attacked in hindsight, if you will, by the left-wing representatives, and as an example, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is built on credit, and huge transport systems are also built on credit. They know that they're throwing things at me that I didn't say, I didn't say we wouldn't take loans. Since Széchenyi, we have known the role of credit in each economy. [[11.10]] Taking out loans for investments and development is completely rational, especially if you can borrow good and cheap loans, but taking out loans for current expenses is total indebtedness. Well, they were artists. I was just suggesting that we broke up with this practice in 2010, and we never want to come back here. Local governments. It is a big debate about what is happening to the municipalities in practice. I am one of those who is not happy that any kind of resources should be withdrawn from the municipalities. Many small settlements can sense these. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] I know, I know. $3,000 billion in municipal budget cake, and withdrawal, let's say, $34 billion. Overall, this is obviously a small item compared to 3000 billion. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I know that the small ones are harder affected than the big ones, the big ones survive this more, the small ones are hard to deal with, which is why in this budget there are opportunities for temporarily lending to municipalities. However, the municipalities are more than ever interested in continuing the development opportunities they have already had. This is HUF 80-90 billion in the 2011 budget. The programme of the Modern Cities is HUF 50 billion. It was never included in the budget that every penny was planned to be sent here and here. The Hungarian village is a tender system, 104 settlements in my constituency, 20 who have not yet received funds. I'm hoping that next year they'll have some resources. Thus, the municipalities are enriched in a predictable way through these sources, and the same is true of the programme of modern cities. The fact that the municipalities must be in solidarity in a crisis management situation is clear to me, there is only a transfer between the municipality and the municipality. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The Christian Democratic Group supports the country's budget because it fits what we got used to from this government ten years ago, and it has proved to be a success. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Harghitai. I salute the ladies, gentlemen, the members of the government. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-06-10-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member on the right has special skills, which concern reading minds, because he has long described what the left says about this budget, even though I am the first to speak. [[Intruder from Fidesz: No! There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The last sentence of the village development program was that the municipalities were getting rich from billions of forints. I'm living with the suspicion that Lőrinc Mészáros is going to get richer. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Yay!]] It's like the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen...! [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-06-10-20	Go on, Congressman.
u2020-06-10-21	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Every year during the budget negotiations, I say that the budget is perhaps the most important legislation and most important law in the life of a country, as it is about how, from the taxpayers' money in Hungary, thousands of billions of forints are distributed and how, and how, they spend it for different purposes. Unfortunately, it has to be seen that this budget is nothing more than the previous years, it represents the distorted social philosophy that has been being taken for ten years: it has to be given more, where it is possible to give it to relatives, friends, to renovate family hotels - and give less where it really needs to be. But this is not just the problem with the budget, there is a dakota saying that it is difficult to predict, especially in the future, because you have presented a budget that we do not even know exactly what its foundations are, because we do not know how much we have been repelled by the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic. We have heard here how much GDP will increase, what will be the deficit, what will be the tax revenue, inflation, exchange rates, public debt, even though we do not know the basis for starting, and we are not sure, nor do we know much from next year. The government and Fidesz say that next year the growth will be 4.8 percent, almost 5 percent. This means that if your calculation is achieved and this year's GDP is reduced by nearly 5 percent, then the country will actually return to the same level in terms of the economy, and of course it will also require your prediction to be confirmed, not by the European Commission or by economic analysts independent of the government. So there is a huge uncertainty during the budget negotiations, which is why I suspect that Fidesz considers this budget only to be a plan, of course, that is understandable, because there is a saying that the plan is to have something to deviate from. [[Miklós Soltész: Five-year plan! You did it!]] This is how you see this budget, because the government is asking the Parliament to decide how to farm next year in this period, in June. But, of course, it will be different, because we saw it before last year, we saw it last year, and this year in particular, that you will regroup in the budget as you please, just where you need it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are saying that we should take matters that are about a budget much more seriously. It is not enough to pawn an item that looks like such a budget; it is not enough to re-label a few titles for crisis, protection, to re-name the Employment Fund for Economic Protection, in fact, here the red, where the red game is played with people's money, with the common register, saying that taxpayers' money is enough for a lot of things. And that's the point, because when we talk about a budget, it's not about the government, it's not about the Fidesz and it's not about the Prime Minister's family register. This is the Hungarian people, we all have money in common, and the budget is about redistributing it. It is therefore necessary to define precisely the objectives to which we want to spend, and in times of economic downturn it is particularly important that no one stays on the side of the road. It's especially important for everyone to have a chance to survive. If survival depends on the social security system, it must be strengthened. If survival depends on the health care system, it must be rebuilt. If survival depends on meaningful and value-creating work, then it must help the government to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, But the problem is that Fidesz and the government didn't learn anything from the coronal virus epidemic. The coronal virus epidemic has shown that there are huge holes in the Hungarian social care system, and this can lead to social disaster without significant interference. The epidemic has shown that Hungarian health care cannot be treated as a stepchild, because there is a chance of healing for everyone only if there are enough doctors, nurses and tools, if there is money for decent pay, the purchase of means, and if the professional organisation of care is responsible for an independent and competent member of the government. Otherwise, there may be avoidable deaths, permanent damage to health, as has been seen in recent weeks. The experience of a coronal virus epidemic is also that a person who has a well-applied knowledge has a degree that keeps his job much easier than he doesn't. And it is also a fact that it will be easier to get a degree later, and it has also become clear that there is nothing more important than the knowledge that can be used, so this is what education policy should be based on, which is in Hungary's interest. The epidemic has also pointed out that we need to make greater efforts to protect our environment and sustainability. A large-scale investment programme should therefore be launched that will help to promote environmental aspects, increase employment, innovation and digitalisation at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, after ten years of Fidesz domination, the state party has placed its own privileged elite in a position to secure and strengthen its own power, while not dealing with the majority of society. After ten years of Fidesz domination, nearly 500,000 children starve or live in poverty, more than 100,000 pensioners live under the minimum living age, and hundreds of thousands of families live overnight. So far, more than 3 million people have lived below the poverty line, unfortunately, because of the redundancies, this number may even increase. [[11.20]] And when tens of thousands of people are on the street overnight because of an epidemic, they still don't change: there's money pouring out to friends, football players, the nation's gas mechanic, and the rest are starving, the deprivation, the tensions are gathering. By mid-May, researchers' estimates of unemployment are about 400,000 people. We also know that nearly 100,000 self-employed, low-tax, bt.-owners who have lost their revenues overnight can come to this. Tax relief doesn't help them after they don't have any income. These people cannot be left on the side of the road, their livelihood must be guaranteed, and neither public work nor the military alone will be a solution. What the Fidesz has presented to us is therefore the hit-and-run budget, the hit-and-run that does not change the redistribution rates, leaving the minimum pension, family allowance and a series of other benefits unchanged for more than ten years. At the same time, the state spends more on itself each year in terms of proportion and sum, on State Secretary's salaries, propaganda, prestige investments. Ten years ago, we spent 15.3 percent of the common cake on operating functions in the state. Next year, the Fidesz government wants to spend 19.2 percent of the expenditure on itself, almost one in five forints, while the share of welfare expenditure in the budget has been less than ten years. In 2010, 61.5 percent of expenditure went to education, health and social systems, next year it is only 57.5 percent of expenditure, and that is what the government wants to spend. If we had these 2010 rates today, there would be some HUF 935 billion more in these areas. And since the state spends just 4 percentage points more on itself and spends 4 percentage points less on welfare functions than it did in 2010, we can simplify it by saying that the Fidesz government is drawing so much money from health care, education and the social system to spend it on its own, prestige investments, buddies, relatives. We have received a modern school for everyone, equal access to public health, more pensions instead of propaganda and a huge central water head: state ministers, ministers, ministers, government commissioners. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not right. After the outbreak of the Crown Virus, Hungary is living in the first months of the crisis, and we are not over it. The coronal virus epidemic is quiet, but the social effects of forced cessation of the economy are already felt. As I said, hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs, with hundreds of thousands of people's income being reduced, and the consequences of the slowdown in the international economy have not yet been felt. The major economic crisis rearranges everyday life, causes mass daily livelihoods, and permanently interferes with our way of life. The Fidesz government has missed the benefits of early intervention and has not taken action in time to counterbalance the economic impact of the crisis. Fires, salary cuts, company failures have started, the depth of the crisis is incalculable, as my fellow Member on the right mentioned. The Fidesz government was supposed to draw up and present to Parliament a budget that would create the financial conditions for reconstruction; this was not the case. After the crisis, we will probably not return to the same way of life as we learned at the end of 2019 at the beginning of 2020, so the Hungarian state should take a new role in order to rebuild Hungary. More than ever, substantial resources and competences should be allocated to territorial development building on free self-governments, local resources and partnerships. Compared to this, Fidesz now takes nearly 160 billion forints away from the municipalities, while not reducing their duties. With this step, Fidesz makes it clear that withdrawal is not necessary for the fight against the epidemic. My fellow Members, the tax revenues of the local governments will fall in the same way, and they will suffer the consequences of this crisis without interfering with it, but the aim is apparently to bleed out the municipalities. But let's make it clear again. This sarc policy has nothing to do with crisis management, nothing to do with solidarity. It is about the fact that the Hungarian government simply cannot bear the fact that independent municipalities operate, thus ignoring the clearly stated will of the Hungarian electorate in the autumn of 2019, even though crisis management cannot succeed by bleeding out the municipalities. Citizens in distress are always the first to knock on the doors of local governments, because due to physical proximity, municipalities can first help people and businesses in distress. That is why all governments in the world support local governments: they do not lose, they give because they know exactly what is needed. Unfortunately, the Government of Hungary is still facing global trends. We, Socialists, therefore, want the municipalities to receive the necessary financial cover from the State budget to carry out their mandatory duties and to receive compensation for their losses. Ladies and gentlemen, However, in addition to rebuilding the financial security of the municipalities, reconstruction is also necessary in the functioning of the State. In this area, the key to successful reconstruction is protection, development and knowledge, so we need a budget for reconstruction and chance creation that prevents radical income and consumption reduction in the short term, ensures everyday livelihoods, creates new jobs with activities that contribute to Hungary's becoming a green, sustainable and fair country, and helps as many as possible to acquire knowledge and skills in order to provide a successful and productive life for their families. The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is that, first of all, people need to be protected to ensure their livelihoods, to be healthy and to provide real security in the social network. We need protection for the elderly, safety for families, a guarantee for the workers, a healthy life for everyone. For this reason, the MSZP believes that it is necessary to start patching up the broken social network, to rebuild the social care system, because it needs help for those who have lost their jobs, for those who have suffered a pay cut, for those who are already in worse situations, for all those who have been hit by the crisis more than average. That is why we are demanding the payment of valuable and equitable pensions. As a result of inflation and restrictions, pensioners should be paid an increase of 6.5 per cent from 1 January 2020 in accordance with the Swiss indexation. In order to catch up on pensions below HUF 100,000, the minimum pension should be raised to HUF 80,000 from 1 January 2021, since the minimum pension has not been increased for more than 10 years. It should be fair to rebuild the 13th month pension, so we recommend that the average pension be paid to all pensioners equal to 140 thousand forints at present; two out of three pensioners are better off than the government's proposal. In order to ensure the safety of families' livelihoods, we demand a doubling of the social benefits that the Fidesz has not raised in the last ten years with a single HUF. This is the family allowance, the child, the ged, the maternity allowance, but for example, the initial amount of the baby bond. Greater public help should be given to raising children and home care. There is a need for a fair, high-value pension increase and a reduction in unjustified differences in pensioners' society. A guaranteed social minimum should be introduced to ensure the level of income required for life without deprivation through community goods and services, income supplements and social benefits. The public health care envelope should be doubled for all beneficiaries, with a 30-40 billion-dollar extension of the drug register to create a social support scheme. 10-15 billion more will be needed to support medical aid. The basic service and the fair-band price system must be introduced in the supply of electricity, gas and water. Ladies and gentlemen, The oil price has turned to minus, the price of energy has dropped in international markets. Why don't you give it to the Hungarian families at a cheaper price? Why do they have to pay the same price? For if they were to do so, a reduction in energy prices would also justify this step, but it is also important in terms of access to life support services. We demand guarantees for the workers. If someone loses their job, the job search support should be paid for nine months, and the net amount should not be less than HUF 100,000. [[11.30]] It is still not too late to guarantee 80 percent of the wage of those who work before dismissal as state aid for a net amount of HUF 180 000, with the maintenance of work for 3-6 months, and we demand that they do so for those who lose their jobs after 1 March 2020. Individual and collective rights of workers must be restored. We consider it necessary to restore the rules of the cafeteria so that the worker can receive real support for housing, work and school start-ups in addition to salary. What you're doing with employees' rights is a disgrace and a disgrace! You might want to go work for a company like this, where the employer dictates when you can take a vacation, where you can go on vacation, when you work, how much work. I'd recommend it to you. We want equal pay for equal work, there is no difference between men and women working the same job and the wages of workers working in different parts of the country. We believe that it is necessary to maximise wage differences within companies, to prevent unrealistically high management salaries. The company managers' bonus should not exceed 20% of their basic wage and management wages above HUF 10 million should not be deducted from the company's tax base as a cost. We are starting to divide some of the profits of companies equally among the current employees, because otherwise we are going to end up like now that the profits of the large companies last year of hundreds of thousands of billions of dollars were sent home to the parent company, which was produced by the Hungarian workers here. In order to enhance the activities and rights of trade unions, we are proposing that they receive 1 percent of personal income tax in order to strengthen their financial position as well as civil society organisations or even churches. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to rebuild the health care system. We want everyone throughout Hungary to have access to high-quality GP care, screening, diagnostics, information and prevention, specialist medical care and hospital services, regardless of the situation. To do this, the budget for health needs to be increased by at least HUF 700 billion, so that the opportunities for growing and expanding healing are available, and doctors and nurses must have a decent salary, so that they can help in the event of illness. Health is a strategic area and we need an independent organisation, an independent ministry and a competent minister. A new uniform public health and medical service should be established, a new medical support system should be established and patient management streamlined. We demand that social workers also receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500 000. It is not fair on the part of the government to distinguish between workers in emergency situations while all of them have done their best to protect people. Ladies and gentlemen, Restoration of the economy is also needed to emerge from the crisis. We need a reconstruction programme, which not only provides temporary support, but also provides long-term value. Everyone suffers the economic crisis and demands adaptation from everyone, but it is also an opportunity for a new life. For this reason, the MSZP requires the renovation of the family houses instead of the hotel renovations. MSZP requires the construction of apartments instead of spa development, and MSZP requires more money to protect jobs. A targeted energy efficiency and green development programme for homes should be launched. This will reduce emissions, reduce energy costs and increase the wealth of Hungarians. This can be achieved through a HUF 750 billion energy efficiency and green development programme for homes supported by grants and interest-free public loans. This is what we are proposing, which would create a job, as I said, increase the value of housing, remedy the difficulties of the construction sector affected by the crisis, and rearrange the conditions; and we would not see the Prime Minister's cable friend building huge buildings, but smaller construction works would take place in the whole country by renovating family homes, which would benefit the whole country and, of course, those whose assets are growing. Ladies and gentlemen, I left it to the end, but it's not the last of the education. Albert Szent-Györgyi says the future will be the same as today's school. Well, it doesn't look good to have one third of children dropped out of the system during a school closure due to an epidemic, either because they don't have any tools, or because they don't have the Internet, or they don't have any. We should learn from the epidemic in this area, but the government doesn't seem to understand it either. According to the MSZP, all persons, regardless of the financial differences, should be guaranteed under Article XXI. The possibility of acquiring the applicable knowledge necessary for the implementation of the 20th century. Public spending on education should therefore be doubled. The salary of teachers should be based on the minimum wage, so their wages would increase by an average of 35 percent. No public school can be worse funded than church schools. Foreign language and IT training should be supported methodologically and with significant budgetary resources. Instead of a nationalised, often biased, sometimes stupid textbooks textbook system, a state-controlled but competitive textbook market should be created. A National Basic Lesson Plan, based on the sure application of skills taking into account digital educational reality, should be introduced, which will incorporate the experience of the past weeks into the school's operation and will have an impact on the training of teachers. We ask you to withdraw the National Basic Training Plan planned for September 2020, which, on the one hand, is inadequate, untimely, but also contains nothing about the experience of online post-Cronor Virus education. There is a need to create an online national basic curriculum, to develop the online digital curriculum, which is not a substitute for, but complements, traditional education. We are proposing the need for a 9-year primary school education. The crisis has confirmed the previously perceived challenge of continuing primary education in the changed digital environment, leaving more time in other structures, focusing specifically on basic competences. We need the foreign language grade zero. The education policy of the last decade has almost eliminated the only effective language training solution so far. This institution should be traced back to previous experience on the basis of an already proven methodology. Preparing for the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, which is mentioned in many words: it is necessary to plan and allocate the money needed to this end, so that there is a very large, open source, free software-based public education laptop program that reaches all students who miss out. During the weeks of the displacement restriction, as I mentioned, it is estimated that one fifth of children, but another estimated one third, were left out of the education system. Instead of training as a footman today, vocational training needs to be rebuilt. The proportion of public knowledge should be increased; the institution should be brought back to the world of education: better and more secure access to secondary and higher education. Based on the experience gained in digital education, a widely available system and incentive for young adults aged 18 and undergrad should be planned. The budget should significantly increase the proportion of public university courses, pay particular attention to the promotion of university training at the age of 23 and shape foreign language training more effectively with the involvement of EU funds. Radically increase access to higher education. One way to do this is to free initial education and full-time higher education. Only in the case of master and undivided training should the system of state-funded framework numbers remain. Another option is that all disadvantaged young people are given a framework from the state, which they can only spend on education. However, from September 2020, university studies for the first degree should be free of charge for all who have fulfilled the conditions of entry for the course period. [[11.40]] Student scholarships have to be raised by 33 percent. A new and fair study and social scholarship system should be introduced, agreed with the higher education actors. Adult education must become the foundation of a new, better functioning Hungary with more opportunities. To this end, the current closed framework needs to be developed into a general, much more accessible sphere offering alternatives to all people. As a first step, all volunteers applying for adult education should be provided with a uniform amount of resources that can be spent on their own, which can only be used for adult education. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, these proposals cost a considerable amount of public money of several thousand billion forints. But here's the good news, as we've heard: the money's available, it's there, and it's gonna be in the budget, you just have to move it to the right lines. Less propaganda, less business with your friends, and the country comes out. We need to rebuild the social network, rebuild health care, rebuild the education system, rebuild Hungary. Let us begin, support our proposals, for our common future, for Hungary! [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-06-10-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I now give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-06-10-23	Thank you very much for the floor. This budget is a budget of weakness and cowardice. Obviously, there are infinitely few people who see such a very thick substance in detail, context, understanding, and otherwise natural, that's natural. In fact, the question in the budgetary debate is that we are Hungary's common, big story, what we do together, the resources that are available, what we use them for. This budget, by the way, for the first time in a relatively long time, is not known. The government is tired, lack of vision, intellectually and politically weak in this regard, and I dare say that it is also a coward because it does not want to face certain very obvious problems. I don't want to start too far away, but let me tell you something. I'd like to raise the horizon level of government representatives a little bit, see if I can help you with that, I'm not sure, but I'll try. About two major economic policy and social policy changes took place in the 20th century. From the first third of the century C.E., each responding to a major crisis. It is worth a moment to dwell on this fact because we are now in another, third, major crisis, and these crises are about to pave the way for completely new solutions. The response to the Great Depression of the .30s was the New Deal and all its consequences, approximately until the beginning of the.70s. The crisis at that time opened the way for Friedmanist liberalism. I would add that for almost 30 to 40 years, it was fundamentally influenced by what was happening in the world. You are, by the way, the pro-government MEPs who are, in their words, compulsive whips for this kind of policy. Something's happening right now, and I want you to see that this is what we're dealing with, for you, for us, for the country. Here was the 2008 crisis, which showed the infinite vulnerability and extremely often the immorality of the private economy, caused by which the crisis was caused only by terrible big government intervention, the money of ordinary people who did not otherwise trigger the crisis could be treated in one way or another, but the world did not give a systemic response. Now we have the crisis that has not yet been left behind, but it has already been perceived, which we have found at home and elsewhere, that when it is very bad, everyone has turned to the state as a last resort, naturally, to governments, to state institutions, where we have tried to find the handholds to deal with the problem. I suspect that the combined effect of these two stories will result in another significant change in the role and role of the state. This basically goes against what we see here, for example, in Hungary. The fact that you are faced with this problem is not clear either from the budget or from the debates you have initiated. The intellectual standards of public and public policy debates that are essentially dictated by you, compared to the challenges that we are now facing, are discouraged and at other times outrageously low. You, of course, because you give the majority, you have a different responsibility for the fate of the country than those in opposition, but you have to take that responsibility. I do not know how you have seen the operation of the state as a whole in the course of the last few months; I think you have reason to ask the question that you do not need to re-evaluate what you have thought of the state and have thought of the role of the state. I think we do. Undoubtedly, it takes some intellectual and political courage. I know that in many cases you think that political power is the volume and how many conflicts can be created. I think it's about what's going on. To be honest, if I look at what has been achieved in the world and in Hungary over the last ten years, I think that this is not a demonstration of strength, but of weakness. In your political dictionary, quite rightly, I would add that the concept of the nation is quite central. In fact, our debate is about what we mean by the nation and our shared responsibility for the nation. I'm going to say very simple things to you now. In addition to the first phase of the crisis, we have seen that we are operating a health system that, when there is a problem, is helping the public institutions, and in the everyday life, I suspect that very many of the Members of this House also belong to a completely different part of the country. There is elegance, time check-in, high-quality service, a multitude of private hospitals and private clinics in Budapest; part of the country, I say, many of us can take advantage of this. In fact, his national policy is that we are doing a health care system and that is what will remain, and it does not turn out that you are facing it, so we are doing a health care system where the vast majority of people are extremely vulnerable and have problems with what they can do, and they have been insured for decades, and the minority acting on behalf of the nation has created an extremely high-quality, world-class, undoubtedly infinitely expensive private system of private health in some places. Do you think this is a national policy or not? The difference between you and us is, if you're serious about keeping the nation together, why don't you face this fact? Why not? 2. In a heartbeat, they ordered digital education to get out of the mix-up. It certainly was good for one thing: it showed a great deal of the problems and problems of today's education. In principle, you showed courage when the Hungarian school system was essentially nationalised. [[11.50]] But isn't it true that you don't see it as a party to the countryside, that in the multitude of small settlements, obviously tens of thousands of families, there was no minimum condition for digital education, that it brought with it families, in the background, with excellently prepared, susceptible, open parents, and, more than that, parents who can do that to help their children, or to them personally or with some help, have the opportunity to do so, and there are children and families where life has stopped for a few months, because not only there is no computer, not only there is no Internet connection, not only does parents have no ability and ability to do it, but they don't even know how to do it. What's your reaction to this? What does this budget tell you? They have been governing for ten years, often talking about the need for digital education. Now they have seen that there are situations and moments when this could be a rescue, and now all the problems and problems of this have been revealed. What did you do next? What are your suggestions on what conclusion should we draw from this? What? This budget doesn't show that. This budget pretends that the period behind us does not have any morals in the world. I think I got it. That's what I'm saying, it's a budget for cowardice. Why don't you face these problems? We have listened to this infinitely controversial, I think, in a larger part, unjust debate about what happened in the elderly home on Pesti Road. In this debate, I believe you were interested in the possibility of beating the new Mayor of Budapest politically. It's up to you. It's up to you. But did they not notice the situation of many of our social homes and nursing homes? They did not realize that, by the way, men and women 40-50 years old and 30 years old have to spend their time, of course, not only with decent, good parents for their children, but also with health and other problems in some way to support their elderly parents, and there is no strength and capacity, we are talking about tens of thousands of people here. In essence, we do not have any thoughtful elderly care system that would allow the age group that best performs in the country to be helped to cope with the task of doing something to their elderly parents. Is there any reference in this budget, ladies and gentlemen, that you understand that there is a problem here and that we should deal with this problem together in some way? Look, you run for a while, and then others steer, but the country stays. What is your suggestion, and what is our story? I don't see a story, a story. The events continue to be Greek, as they have done so far, rather boringly, meaninglessly, unimaginatively, you do not answer one problem that arises. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: The microphone fell off!]] I'm sorry. Apparently, it doesn't belong here, but I think you've read a lot in the last few days, regardless of your party position, you've been watching, watching, you've been analyzed by news about George Floyd's death, consequences, events. You've obviously been shaken one way or another. Apparently, it doesn't belong here, but you do understand that this extremely brutal story alone wouldn't give rise to what followed in the United States. They're obviously asking you the question because it's not too complicated why this could happen. Why is it that, unfortunately, it is not uncommon that, in a police measure, a U.S. citizen may not be legally deceased, almost the most influential country in the world, the democracy that everyone or the majority consider to be the calmest or reliable? What were they behind this? [[Interview from the ranks of Fidesz: 2006!]] I'm bringing this up because if you keep sweeping problems under the carpet, and you think that with a couple of giant posters and a lot of loud lyrics, you can control social relations for a while and a half, then you risk something happening, we don't know what it is, so no one knew the day before that it would be the trigger. [[Interview from Fidesz: Autumn!]] When the rest of the country's everyday stability blows up and it's too late. I think that the budget is the big joint decision of the Parliament, which always gives the governors the opportunity to face the real state of the country, the conflicts that lie deep in the midst of our life together, which we may survive every day, and then explode once in a while. I don't see that kind of mentality, thinking, caution. You don't have to sit here, frankly, in rather boring budget debates to see what you're saying. I don't see the need for you to face that. Then why are you steering me? Honestly, why are you steering me? Because the office is bigger? Because more people can be placed? Because it's a different prestige? Don't you govern to answer that? I think that's why we should. The attempt, the intention to do so, cannot be seen. It is quite right that municipalities and mayors now say in a row that they are being punished with this budget. Obviously, we don't know their intentions, because we can't read your mind. So you can see that the national community is made up of many smaller communities, and, thank God, these smaller communities are different from each other. Others are the traditions they cultivate, partly the culture they pay attention to is different from the history and history of the settlement. That's good. I think it's worth it; most of the time, you're worth it. But what I don't understand is why they won't allow it now, whether they have pro-government or opposition leadership, so that they can actually be their own masters. Traditional care is not that there is a meadow festival in one place, and in the other, potato festivals are very important color spots, but that they can set up their own lives according to how they want to live their everyday lives. You, on the contrary, take everything from them. You are constantly nationalising, trying to control the central government in almost everything, not trusting that the municipalities are good owners, good leaders, good rulers of the settlements. This budget is going in the same direction and is pushing them even further. But that's not what you'd be representing. That's not what you're saying. You say that you trust people and trust settlements, but in the meantime, what you're saying is, you're strangling them. It's been a long time since there's been so many unemployed in this country as they are now, these weeks. In the world there was a very sensible debate about what needs to be done now in such a situation, how much direct support needs to be given, so-called helicopter money should be divided, negative income tax should be introduced, basic income should be introduced, what should be done to suddenly bring the economy back to life and to save hundreds of thousands of millions of existential lives. [[12.00]] We couldn't have this debate with you, we couldn't! You will end this by saying that there is a work-based society; we will create as many jobs as we will lose. So far, this has not worked, and so far, I think that the answer doesn't satisfy you, obviously you can't say, I understand that there will be community service, and the defence will take on some of it. Really? Is this the vision of modern Hungary that there will be community service and then the possibility of going to the Hungarian Defence Service to serve the country? You can't be serious, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, they have saved themselves an opportunity to face the fact that the economic and social system that has been essentially shaped by your will for ten years. And I say and I see that it doesn't work, and this budget tells me that they don't want to face this situation, this problem. I'll go one more if I was just talking about small settlements. It is not true that they do not see that the world is increasingly loud, not only in Hungary, and I do not want to go into this debate on the very ordinary anti-government oligarch and the world of dudes, because I think you will not accept it, and our constituents may be bored with it. But you can see that, too. I think you're just reading. that, in the last 15-20 years, and especially after 2008, the income and wealth differences have become tremendously large, with huge hit authors and serious people appearing in the past period. You see. This is also true of Hungary, but this is not a Hungarian phenomenon, and I acknowledge that. This has been the result of the global economic and social order in which we live for the past 15 to 20 years. If this phenomenon is true, and that is true, you cannot argue with it, then the next question is whether you agree with it or not. We think that this should be limited. You know, the nation again. If there's too much distance between the members of the nation, I can't keep them together. If we need to be limited and see that this is a global phenomenon, whether we are happy with it or not, then there is no other means to use here than basically global instruments, and at this point, of course, there is a challenge to the kind of national policy, the kind of global thinking that you represent. Because, indeed, within national frameworks, this cannot be stopped. It may be that at least the more developed part of the world will decide on a series of things through taxes, budgets and labour rules, and apply these rules. And indeed, a common Europe, a more common Europe, will come from this, and indeed the world that is acting together for global challenges will not say world governance. So, I think that a budget like this is good if you understand these key points, you see them, and at least at the level of intent, it turns out that you want to do something about it. But we can't discuss it, it's right that, let's say, the inheritance tax is zero, regardless of the size of the inheritance. By the way, I accept that in the world of average existentialism, of course, so there's a lot of tragedy and trouble there, finally, the little house, the car, the kids go on without taxes and get on with it. I'm sure we make a mistake when we say that if you say someone inherits over HUF 10-20 billion, that's a good sum, isn't it? Can't you just tell her to listen to me and make a contribution? There it is no longer certain that zero inheritance taxes should be introduced. I'm not interested in the specific idea in itself, I'm interested in talking to you about it. I can't seem to discuss this with you, because if someone raises this, there's a stigma. I do not dispute that there are many advantages to the fact that, up to the level of middle classes, personal income tax is modest, and that, by the way, is the performance of your government, I do not dispute it. [[Intruder from the benches of the ruling parties.]] But tell me, do you have to apply the same modest income tax if someone has an annual billionaire's income? Do you want it or not? I think it would also be sensible and responsible to talk about this, if you were open to this, if you were willing to open these debates in connection with the negotiation of such a budget, because yes, as the president of the MSZP, his group leader here said, whether from the corporate world or from the world of persons subject to personal income tax, there would be income and resources that could alleviate painful social problems if you were ready for these debates. But no, because I think they're cowards in the face and weak in the answer. That's the problem. Therefore, of course, the opposition does not have too much to do with this budget, I think, because going into detail disputes which, by the way, are infinitely long, because they are in two large volumes [[He's showing it to me.]] It's not really worth it. Moreover, I do not remember very much from the experience of the last few years that you have seriously considered even one proposal for an amendment to the opposition budget. Maybe there were some exceptions, maybe. You know what I'm talking about, you don't usually put it on the table. So we need to establish a baseline for the budget. Our basic position is that the budget is embarrassing you in its spirit, transparency, objectives, accountability and even national nature. Don't be proud of that, because it's not the right thing to do, and you should be ashamed, and believe me, you'll be issuing a very bad certificate if you think you're serving the country with this budget. [[He's showing it to me.]] No, with this budget, you prove that they're cowards and weak. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and MSZP. Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Bravo!]]
u2020-06-10-24	Thank you very much, Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue Group indicated that two speakers presented the group... [[For signal:]] Sorry, LMP's up next. The LMP Group also indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Team Leader Antal Csárdi.
u2020-06-10-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Next year's budget will continue exactly where it left off this year. This budget is the scenario of living up to the future; this budget is a revenge scenario; this budget is a failure scenario. The budget for revenge, because the government continues to bleed out and punish municipalities, on a political basis. It also shows that Fidesz completely misunderstood the outcome of the October elections and concluded that their power should be extended even more. But Viktor Orbán is not punishing opposition politicians; Viktor Orbán and his government are punishing the people living in the country because there is no money left for road renovation, kindergarten and nursery development, housing, payment of social assistance or elderly care. The budget for living the future, because it still does not face the climate crisis; it still does not address the protection of our environment; it still does not invest in education in a sufficient way; it still does not address the creation of green, crisis-resistant jobs. The current central budget clearly and clearly shows what social picture current governments have and shows the government's relationship with the upper tens of thousands, shows their relationship to the middle class, and shows their relationship to the hundreds of thousands of people in need. Fidesz has been able to raise the stakes every year for the past ten years. In the ideal society they imagine, there are rich people who need to be supported, and there are poor people who can be forgotten. Many have said in many ways what is the historical sin of the government, but there is no clear indication that there has never been such a difference between the poor and the rich in Hungary as it is today. In the tenth year of the Orbán government, birth and upbringing to the poor family are already decisive, inadvisable, hopeless and hopeless. That is why next year's budget will remain a failure budget. Dear Parliament, It is quite clear that the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic puts the already bled municipalities in a terrible position: tax revenues failing, local businesses on the verge of bankruptcy and shocking expenditure on the protection of epidemics. [[12.10]] And in this situation, the government abandons the municipalities, and not only abandons them, punishes them with austerity, even though the municipalities stand on the front line immediately after health institutions. Because they cope with elderly care, public disinfection, purchase of protective equipment, management of official quarantines, and care of children's meals, outpatient care, all in a perfectly good quality. At the same time, the question is why they must also lose their remaining income. But the question is, in fact, and it is obviously not about the municipalities. This withdrawal is about those in need who are in particular in need of help at the moment in their place of residence. It is about those injured who feel the crisis in caring for themselves in Hungary; it is about small entrepreneurs who, if they were not local government help, would not be able to maintain their business, because they do not fall into the narrow dispersal of the government where appropriate. He's talking about the Fidesz National Unit, but he's doing something different than what he says again. As in the last ten years, it's just a power logic behind everything. The local government has been an enemy since October, which must be destroyed, and it does not matter that the cost of this is ultimately paid by the people who live locally and by the people who need the help of the municipalities. As an individual MP elected in Budapest, I know exactly that a successful municipality is not an enemy, but a partner, and in such a crisis, it is particularly important not to punish, but to value, the success. Let us estimate the extraordinary pension in Ferencváros, the social fund in Józsefváros, the business subsidies in Buda, and I could tell you more. But the government doesn't believe in respect. It believes in sacrifice, punishment. And so far, we have never heard of how, in what form, the government would like to put the funding of the municipalities in order, or at least how it would stabilize them, even though we are talking about basic tasks such as housing support for people in need, maintenance of nursing homes, kindergartens, maintenance of kindergartens, purchase of medical equipment, masks. So even in such a crisis, the government is following the bad model that has been going on for a decade: helping where they are not in so much trouble and punishing where assistance is needed. It is this model that keeps hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families in existential uncertainty, because under the administration of Fidesz, the upper middle class or the upper layer of the country is in a way, but better, while 90 percent of society is much worse. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, 90 percent of society, crowds! The price of the new feudal arrangement will be paid by employees, wage sufferers, high labour contributions and high consumption taxes. It's called kinky redistribution. The government also brands Hungarian families as burdens and burdens next year, because they cannot fit into their worldview. They ignore their child's single - parenting, long - term sick or disabled children, their elderly relatives nursing at home. One of the most important evidences of the new feudal arrangement is the severe housing crisis. Nearly a million people live in apartments, apartments, students, young family members, public service workers, low incomes, foreign exchange loans, and their number will only increase, as because of low wages, most of them have no chance of raising their share of a house loan. The rental fund proposed by us is expected to continue to fall again next year, and the housing crisis will continue to deepen. This is not surprising, however, because every year the government narrows down the number of people who benefit from the budget and the number of people left on the side of the road by the government who remain in existential uncertainty. For them, it will certainly not be enough for Viktor Orbán or any member of the government to stand up and say that we do not believe in unemployment benefits; especially in this case, we should not be talking about unemployment benefits, we should be talking about job support. It is outrageous and deeply repulsive that, on the basis of next year's budget figures, the government has given up hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, and it only tells them that you will receive the hunger allowance for a few weeks, or you can go to community service, or you can apply to Szilárd Németh's recruitment office. It is only quietly noted that the salary that the Ministry of Defence represented by Szilárd Németh can provide is less than 50% of the Hungarian average net wage. Despite the sound of statements, the figures clearly show that Fidesz's great job protection programme is public work and the army, while unemployment is growing dramatically. In addition, employment figures do not say anything on their own, and employment indicators can be cosmetated, but crowds are sinking into poverty. Work today does not protect you from poverty, income from work does not guarantee a living, and it will continue to do so next year. It is the perfect litmus paper for this, that today the state is the worst employer in Hungary, because those who work for the state earn the least. At present, everyone who works in human public services is underpaid, with a general and meaningful wage increase of at least 50 per cent of the public sector being left out of next year's budget, even though the resources are there, it would only require political will. Small businesses also remain vulnerable because the government has failed them: a weak rescue package, behind tax breaks, an over-bureaucratised operating environment, while the government is making a declaration about an economic crisis. But we know that without small businesses and family farms, there is no strong economy, but this tells us that the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance has finally renounced the creation of a strong domestic economy. A strong economy is based on well-functioning family and small businesses, but the government is not making strategic partnerships with small businesses next year, but with multinational companies. One of the most important lessons of the coronal virus epidemic is that demand must be met within a national or regional framework in terms of food, energy, hygiene, clothing, construction, housing and mobility. The government claiming to be a national should therefore pursue a genuine patriot economic policy, but it does not; it is not because it is in the hands of the multinationals. This is precisely why the aid available by businesses will remain extremely uneven next year. They favour multinationals and small businesses are largely excluded. With a slight exaggeration, the government is supporting two types of businesses next year: on the one hand, large foreign companies, which it is trying to attract with huge tax incentives, and on the other hand, Fidesz is giving amazing support to companies from its own economic background. They are the big winners of the next year's budget, and unfortunately we can name them almost by name, it is enough to mention the name of Lőrinc Mészáros or the name of Mr Szíj, but this list could probably be much longer. The coronal virus epidemic and the crisis have thus shown that the parts of the economy where ordinary basic needs are produced and provided are stable. There is no decline in demand in times of crisis, but the biggest problem here is that we depend on production across the world. This is why there is a need for crisis-resistant, decent wage jobs, but these can only be created in the local economy, not in the multisectoral sector. Dear Parliament, One of the most effective ways to eradicate poverty is to create a chance-creating education. But if there is a fight that Fidesz has taken seriously over the last ten years, it is the war against education and indirectly the future of Hungarian youth. Enemies on the poster have changed many times, from banks to sovereign debt, through György Soros, to the leadership of Brussels, which was also supported by Fidesz, but the government has never broken up Hungarian education with sluggish enthusiasm. It would also be difficult to list the number of attacks on Hungarian education in recent years, because there was everything here, from the withdrawal of resources to the fixing of the clot to the tuition fee. Yeah, until the tuition, and I remember you guys fighting the tuition with a lot of words. Today, the education system is bleeding from a thousand wounds, yet one of the biggest problems is the unworthy situation of the educational players. Today, in the educational system, the student, the parent, but especially the educator, is in an unworthy position. The losers of the budget will remain teachers. Not only is the budget not suitable for solving the problems that have already been identified, but it will continue to accumulate problems. We know, we see, we understand, they're actually going to spend less on education. In fact, there is no meaningful progress, education remains a stepchild; a stepchild in which our teachers, teachers, teachers and teachers have to fight every day without humiliating circumstances and any financial appreciation, without any increase in wages, to have chalk in the room at all, so that the school community does not have to paint schools, so that a mathematics teacher does not come in for geography class, because young people would rather emigrate than become career teachers. [[12.20]] Newer universities will be set up as foundations, and according to government statements, the change of model of the foundation can mean more flexible, more efficient work. It is a big problem that they believe in the propaganda industry, where it was invented, because these terms are used when there is no doubt that the operation will be more flexible and effective work can mean a large number of redundancies. We know that with the foundation operation, the institutions will increase the fees that already exist as an integral part of the system and can determine the level of scholarships that are already low. It is not surprising, since the institutions themselves have to solve their own funding. Fidesz, pursuing neoliberal economic policy, told the Hungarian university sphere to make a living from the market. They do not deal with the fact that many young people from poor families are being pushed out of higher education, they do not deal with the fact that a lot of teachers can lose their jobs, and that a lot of professions and professions can be lost, and they do not deal with the fact that this social equality is being hit in another area. Dear Parliament, The coronal virus epidemic has clearly shown that the Hungarian economy is not sustainable and is not crisis-resistant. Many tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs and their income. The epidemic also drew attention to the fact that we cannot continue where we left off before the outbreak. Orbán and the government suddenly turned green at the beginning of the year a few weeks after even the fact of climate change was denied, and we even learned that they were always green. But then the big green paint job was over. With the virus coming in, sustainability aspects have been completely removed from the agenda even at government communication level, despite the fact that in many countries around the world governments are choosing green reconstruction as a result of the crisis. Our government is now clearly looking at the whole issue as some sort of Bolshevist trick, even though the 2021 budget should serve as a green renewal. The coronal virus epidemic has brought with it an economic crisis, but behind the economic crisis there is a threat to the climate crisis and the ecological crisis, adding to the emerging social crisis. Six months ago, Viktor Orbán said that the transition to a climate neutral economy would cost HUF 50 200 billion by 2050. In the 2021 budget, however, only HUF 35.3 billion was planned for this purpose, which is less than a thousandth of the amount appointed by the Prime Minister. Scandalous and tragically few. But there's a lot of money for unsustainable, harmful, wasteful investments in our national interests, like 118 billion for Paks expansion, 188 billion for Chinese railways, 36 billion for car-motor sport, 25 billion for large business investments. It can be seen, then, that the government is convulsingly clinging to the investment in Paks, the worst business of the century, which is not about energy security, but about the easy-to-use money of the Russians. It is quite clear that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is expensive, unnecessary and dangerous, and nuclear power is not the 21st century. It's about the century. It is only a matter of political will that Hungary is finally crossing the 21st century. It's a century. This requires that the government does not interfere with the production of green energy, and that it dissolves the regulation of the installation of wind turbines. Dear House, According to the Prime Minister, no Hungarians are alone. This may look good on a billboard, it may look good in the witch's kitchen of the propagandaistery, but it has as much to do with reality as it has to do with a calomistic person with the Virgin Mary: nothing. Because the government is failing the municipalities, the single-parent families, the unemployed, the workers, the relatives, the teachers, the students, the parents, the health workers, the social workers, the civil servants, the civil servants, the small entrepreneurs, the family businesses. The government has failed those who are anxious for the future of our children and grandchildren. Dear Parliament, While the government is also confessing to an economic crisis, it continues to pursue the neoliberal economic policy that is the most dangerous and damaging in such a crisis. The government will continue in 2021 where it left off. It deliberately deepens social differences, making budgetary resources an instrument of blackmail potential, while developing a distorted and perverse redistribution system. The Government of Hungary will not help us next year either where it is most needed, the government will not support us on a merit and performance basis for the future, but on a political basis, according to its own power logic. I am convinced and the LMP firmly believes that a complete change of approach is needed. We would also like to point out with our amending proposals during the budget that we really cannot continue where we left off. Our basis is that, as during the health emergency of the epidemic, one should remain first in the economic crisis. Let's move on to social justice and a sustainable economy XXI. On his hundredth journey! Thank you very much.
u2020-06-10-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn left 11 minutes 28 seconds. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-10-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague before me rightly said that the 2021 budget should serve green and reconstruction. Compared to this, next year's budget is the budget for the future, because it still does not face the climate crisis and the social crisis, because we cannot continue where we left off. Instead of facing it, it further centralizes, further cripples local communities, distracts their resources, makes local economies impossible. The green turn would require the opposite, increasing and protecting the power of local economies and communities. Instead of protecting local economies and communities, the government aimed at destroying them. This is demonstrated by the fact that instead of small scale local economic development, megaloman uses our tax forints for construction. The railway lines serving the inhabitants of the countryside will be closed, instead for a thousand billion, they will build a railroad for the Chinese, so that more Chinese rubbish can flow on it, so that our light industry may not even have a chance of reviving. While the multinationals are being filled with hundreds of billions of dollars in subsidies, the last store in the small settlement is closing. Green reconstruction should aim to address our basic needs locally or within a regional framework. Food, energy, toiletries, building materials, but clothing is also essential to be satisfied locally. This would be the real patriot economic policy, not the support of some rich oligarchs. We need to encourage local economies, help farmers. In order to do this, the first step must be to pull out a large part of the country, in particular the areas that are falling out of the social crisis. As my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, said, the government and thus the budget are supporting the rich, and the poor are pushing them to the edge of the trench, so he does not seem to care about poverty and does not care about the downfall. The ever-increasing social crisis is left to the municipalities, who have fewer and fewer resources, and now they are apparently being deprived of them. Think of the vehicle tax taken or even the solidarity tax. For the last ten years of the government, the economic crisis caused by the epidemic has now come as a sporting difficulty. The consequences of this can no longer be dealt with by non-watching, and there is an urgent need to do so and to deal with the problems that have been cemented in the past. For example, public work and the situation of public workers should be managed. The public work system introduced in 2011 has brought down those who were forced to participate in it. While 78 percent of the net value of the minimum wage in 2011 was the net wage in public employment, today it is about 50 percent, and it rose by just HUF 7,000 in nine years, or even below inflation, so it didn't reach a thousand forints a year. So the task ahead of us is to increase public employment wages so that they can make a living. In order to break out of it, public work programmes combined with training and competence development are needed to enable participants to return to the labour market. [[12.30]] So we need mentoring, we need social workers and those who help them to have both mental and physical strength, and we need a sufficient degree to be able to cope with the labour market. These are not some negligible chatter, they can be successful, although this struggle is very difficult. Training giving qualifications and practices is worth something when the public worker's remuneration is not below the price of hunger, it does not concrete poverty. I've known a community service guy who's been on some kind of community service for over ten years. I'd rather not say anything about your mental, social and other state, but you should know that you're on the verge of poverty and you're not alone. Where I live, in my village, where I was mayor, there are, unfortunately, many families still living out of community service and powerless to get out of it. Of course, against oppression and emigration, the usual means must also be used, universal benefits as family allowances are those that are valued in times of crisis. Even though it is said that aid is humiliating, of course, by people who have comfortable houses and adequate income and income conditions, the fact is that in times of economic crisis, social expenditure must be increased, if we are thinking in a nation and not just representing the interests of a rich layer. In addition to the individual benefits, the wages of social workers must be radically increased, which is already a decade-old debt and, in particular, this minimum recognition for first-line workers during the epidemic. In a keynote speaker, especially in such a short period of time, it is not possible to cover everything, but it is necessary to provide health care for people in the countryside. Everyone knows that the government bled out health care, didn't give it up, and still doesn't give the necessary wage increases to keep their employees at home or on the field. In parallel with the under-financing of public health, it pushes billions into the so-called health industry, where friendly entrepreneurs build paid health care, and health insurance based on national solidarity is slowly disappearing. And what is perhaps the most serious thing in health care in the countryside is the crisis in the general medical system, the high proportion of elderly GPs and the many empty practices, which is why many people who have been mistreated are not willing to consider and increase the government's practice funding. His latest idea is nationalization, which, in addition to the fact that a lot of GPs would zero their decades of work, is not going to solve this problem. In addition to the situation of GPs, there is a need to improve protective services, mother, child and youth protection, some of which are almost critical. There is a huge shortage of home care, home assistance, and all these activities on the brink of health care and social care can stop the crash caused by the crisis from forming a net. But since I was mayor, I can't just walk past the local authorities. All of these social and health problems, and then the natural actors of boosting the local economy, would be local and municipal authorities, they know personally the people in need, the individual problems, and what would be the real help, the way out. Still, the government seems to have decided to liquidate the local government. At first, he bleeds out the municipal authorities, now entrusted with the tasks of the former empty county, because there are still reliable, good cadres sitting there, but after a while they will not be good. They need to know that the decaying and disintegration of the municipalities also means the decaying of the countryside. If this is not the future we want, not this future, but a living countryside, strong local economies, then the municipalities must be supported and strengthened. It is necessary to raise the shamefully unchanged basic wage of the workers there for 12 years here for both civil servants and civil servants, to give back to the municipalities the much money they have planned to take, the HUF 200 billion that is being taken away. Without strong municipalities, there is no strong country, and without a strong country there is no strong Hungary. I would therefore like to conclude by stressing that instead of the current centralising budget, which will revive the future, the countryside needs a local and green turnaround to survive. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-06-10-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position on the pulpit from here. I give the floor to Congresswoman Szabó Timea.
u2020-06-10-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A country's budget shows very well how a country's government thinks about the future of the nation and its own citizens. The sums spent on social expenditure, education, health, job creation, the fight against climate change exactly reflect the fact that a country wants to be free, that it wants to keep the families living there safe, that it takes care of them in the trouble. A country's budget in black and white shows that a government wants prosperity in its country, or that people live in daily anxiety, vulnerability, and deprivation. If a government keeps squeezing me, taking me away from people, cutting down education, health care, abandoning people who have lost their jobs, if it only spends on its own handful of friends and steals what would be worth millions, that means that the government doesn't appreciate it and doesn't love its own citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, From the budget plan for next year before us it is clear: Viktor Orbán and his government do not respect and do not like Hungarian people. From the budget before us, it is clear: Viktor Orbán and his government look deeply down on those who produce the country's goods and who have produced the country's goods for forty years and do not regard them as slaving subjects who will be yoked and thrown away if they are no longer useful to him. Orbán also regards future generations as a subject to be debatable, from which he blocks the paths to knowledge and tries to make obedient subjects with various means of intimidation. In the 2021 budget, unfortunately, it is also clear: Viktor Orbán sees those who are not useful to him, who do not fit into the perspective of the distorted and inhuman work-based society he created, the people who lost their homes, the invalids, the orphans. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget before us is a budget for inhumanity, revenge and theft. [[Dr. István Bajkai intervenes.]] It seems that Viktor Orbán has loved the role of the reverse Robin Hood in recent years: he takes it away from the poor and gives it to the rich, his corrupt friends and himself. In view of this, we can also expect, unfortunately, from next year's budget, that those who are rich will be richer, and those who are poor will, unfortunately, be worth so much since János Lázár. Let us consider in a little detail what the government of Viktor Orbán is up to next year. Even this year's crisis management showed how seriously the government takes real help from people. Half a million people lost their jobs, or their monthly income decreased drastically in the last three months, to which Fidesz-KDNP replied that HUF 200 billion was earmarked for wage compensation; HUF 200 billion was quickly fired by Lőrinc Mészáros through his budget of HUF 186 billion in the framework of job protection. The government of Viktor Orbán paid one person as much during the crisis as half a million people in need in total. It's impertinence, gentlemen, nothing else. In response, Viktor Orbán said that everyone who lost their job during the epidemic would have a job. But what's your job like? Is it the same? Will you have a proper job in your education? Well, of course not. From the draft budget of 2021 we see that, unfortunately, Fidesz-KDNP sees the solution again in public work. According to the chapter justification, the Government's intention to allow an increased number of job seekers to participate in public employment as a result of the global crisis caused by the coronal virus as of March 2020 to be able to make a living in the text. It is a shocking sentence in itself, fellow Members, that you say for a net HUF 54 thousand that the income required for your livelihood will be guaranteed. Well, let's live on 54,000 forints a month. [[12.40]] Is that really the answer, fellow Members of the Fidesz, to the work of half a million people lost, thousands of whom worked in tourism, for example? Shame on you! The other solution to your job solution is to tighten up the slave law, to allow employers to give workers a day off a month and to prescribe 12-hour shifts. They do not want to raise the lowest amount of unemployment benefits in Europe and the shortest period, even though we know that work cannot be found again in a crisis in three months. In addition to protecting jobs, the value of people is also shown by how much a government spends on health care. Here too, unfortunately, next year's figures are not surprising. While even Fidesz' own voters have a devastating opinion on domestic patient care, Viktor Orbán refuses to spend a penny more on health care. There's been a lot of tricks going on with numbers, base bases this year, trying to act like there's more access to patient care. But in the draft budget for 2021, health spending increases by 0.7 percent in total, and if we take into account the inflation planned for this year and next year, the final result is that, in fact, Viktor Orbán openly admits that healthcare will receive even less in real terms next year than in this year. What is a tragedy is that the money spent on GP is greatly reduced, even though we know that nearly 500 GPs are already missing from the system. According to the EMMI's own report, half of the country will have no general medical care, no basic care within 10 years. When that happens, what do you Fidesz Members say in your own constituency? What do they tell people? How do they justify giving Lőrinc Mészáros and Rachel Orbán billions to their hotels rather than providing basic care to patients? ! For years, the Dialogue has been proposing that we create community practice as a solution, since we know that in its present form, the safe functioning of basic health care cannot be resolved. Unfortunately, in next year's budget, we see that the GP community established from the E Fund last year is no longer expected to be financed. In Hungary, the government spends 4 percent on health care in proportion to GDP, while in almost all other countries in Europe it is nearly double, 7 percent. Unfortunately, we have the results of this, and we are producing the worst mortality data in Europe. If a Hungarian is born, he has three times as much chance of dying of cancer as a Czech, Austrian or German citizen. Do you think that's okay? You know, the problem is, right now, you guys are gonna sit back in your chairs and think you're gonna be provided with private care. That's true for diagnostics, of course, but unfortunately, I have some bad news that cancer is not cured in private care. You will also have to go into health care where it is being cured, and as you stand there, you will not be able to receive adequate care after a while. I propose that our honourable fellow Members and Viktor Orbán and their government should finally come to their senses and give more money to health care, because there is a disaster for all of us. We need a makeover, and I'm sure patient care doesn't work effectively everywhere, but it's not gonna work without money. Yesterday, you voted down on my proposal in the Committee on Budgets that the Dialogue would increase the wages of healthcare workers by 100 percent. This could be solved very simply from Paks II investment, from the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line planned for this year and from the National Defence Fund. This could be financed very easily, but you voted against it without a single explanation. You've been silent, you've been silent, because you know very well that the Dialogue is right. The problem is that after the epidemic, we have a very bad time when another wave of emigration begins among nurses and doctors. Unfortunately, there seems to be no money to raise wages, but next year, they put 50 billion forints in the budget for the never-built super-hospital, which has not been cut yet, thank God, but I ask why 50 billion forints are not used for wage increases. It is literally a threat to life that Viktor Orbán and his government have been doing in health care for years and according to the draft, but unfortunately, in other areas than patient care, we see destruction and total abandonment of people. The family allowance will not increase in 2021, and this amount will remain unchanged for 13 years. And don't come here again with our work-based society, because I have just presented to you what a work-based society means to you. Nothing but abandoning people and a maximum of 54,000 forints a month of community service. But unfortunately, if we look further, we can see that only 700 million forints of homeless care will be spent next year, and it will not rise by a penny compared to this year. And you can't even see disability benefits, even separately, in the next year's budget, because they combined it with maternity allowance and sick pay, which, by the way, is unchanged. So it doesn't rise by a penny compared to this year's next year. Believe me, with regard to disability benefits, we will not forget that the Trafiks have been kidnapped from the disabled, and that Viktor Orbán has simply lured the invalids down, and he has not apologized even after your investigation revealed that there has been no mass, even negligible, abuse in the system. Despite this, the government grants a disabled person 28 thousand forints a month to this day. One person out of 28,000 forints pays the rent, the rent, the food, and the medicine. What you're doing is inhuman. What government, what prime minister, my fellow Members, treats the people most in need of help in this way? ! But the future of our children does not seem to be a priority in the 2021 budget plan either. The amount spent on education next year is HUF 2228 billion, which is again 0.7 percent more than last year's, but if we look at inflation, we see a decrease in real value again. In addition, 53 billion forints were taken from the sector this year, so we can see that there will be no money for wage increases or any sector development. That's how much you appreciate those who teach our children, who care about our children at school. But the same goes for social workers who take care of our children or care for our elderly, sick parents and grandparents. They won't get a penny more for many years, and unfortunately, this will be the same next year. They do the noblest work, taking care of our children and parents, and treating them in the most humiliating way by the government of Viktor Orbán. And while we are talking about the future of cradle children, let us see how much Viktor Orbán, who modestly called himself a climate champion, spends on climate protection next year. Orbán is such a climate champion that he spends less on the literal survival of our children and grandchildren than he gives Lőrinc Mészáros to renovate a 17-kilometer long road between Bet-Győr. The climate champion Prime Minister will give HUF 34.5 billion for climate protection next year, and Viktor Orbán will give HUF 46 billion for the 17 km highway of Lőrinc Mészáros. We see from the budget plan that this is not a climate change change turnaround, and it is clear from the figures that the government continues to deny the existence of climate change, although the stakes are not small, fellow Members. A few weeks ago, the survey revealed that of all the major cities in the world, the average annual temperature increased by 5 degrees in Budapest. This means that ten years from now, the capital will no longer be the capital that we know today, virtually in this form. But that is what the National Meteorological Service, which is rarely accused of serialist plans, claims when it is said that the Great Plain will be completely deserted in a few decades. Is this climate protection? I ask Viktor Orbán and ask you. It's not climate control, it's Russian roulette with our children's lives, but there's more than one bullet in the magazine. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, not only the humiliation, the needy people, the complete abandonment of future generations from the budget, but also revenge. It is quite clear that Viktor Orbán is unable to deal with the fact that on 13 October the Fidesz was beaten by the united opposition in Budapest and in several rural towns as well. He can't accept it, so he takes revenge on the municipalities and through them on the people. For the first time in the last 30 years, Budapest, which accounts for a large proportion of the country's GDP, has received nothing from what it practically produces, instead the Budapest tax has been levied. Gergely Christmas, the mayor of Budapest and the co-chair of the Dialogue clearly wrote that the government will give Budapest HUF 29 billion next year, while losing 36 billion. Taking away the car tax, stealing the local business tax will all be hit by the local people. It's quite simply robbery management. This is how Viktor Orbán retaliates because people do not want to support oppression, not corruption, not Lurch Mészáros, but a decent, human-centred policy. [[12.50]] Because the policy that Viktor Orbán is pursuing is not fair and human-centred. Next year's budget will show us who the great winners of this financial gamble are. For example, the life - threatening Paks II on the order of megaloman Putin. investment, which will receive three times this year's budget, HUF 116 billion, the construction of which will, of course, be carried out by Lőrinc Mészáros' companies. After the stadium construction next year, you'll want to steal the hundreds of billions from completely opaque railway development. In 2021 there will be 183 billion forints for investments, of course most of them can again be linked to Lőrinc Mészáros. There is exactly HUF 100 billion spent on tourism, which is not spent on people who have lost their jobs, but on Tiborcz's ports, on other Lőrinc Mészáros hotels and other NER riders. But once again, the government's communication is a big winner, and again, the forger and the MTV is worth 77 billion forints, but Antal Rogán's propaganda machine receives 24 billion forints again, and a so-called government infocommunication service, which has been unknown to date, will be worth 69 billion forints. If we just add up the communication items, then next year you could pay all the health workers the 100% wage increase, honourable Members. But we see that Viktor Orbán spends more on his lies, inciting the Hungarian people than protecting the sick and the people. The Dialogue completely rejects Viktor Orbán's inhumane, vindictive and thief budget and proposes a budget that builds on prosperity and human security. This is the introduction of basic income. New news just yesterday is that according to a new survey, 80 percent of Hungarians support the introduction of basic income. Even the majority of Fidesz voters support the proposal, which, we know very well, is the only way out of the crisis. It is no coincidence that practically everyone now urges the introduction of basic income from the leaders of the world's largest multinational companies through Pope Ferenc. The basic income provides security, eliminates anxiety, and in the long term helps the whole society flourish. Thousands of people can and will unfortunately be in a position to lose their jobs in connection with the epidemic. This is exactly what basic income can help you with. Basic income helps people to survive difficult periods and to provide for their children. Skeptics say that basic income does not encourage work, but the opposite is true. The basic proposal for a crisis management income presented by the Dialogue would give 50,000 forints per month for children, add 100 thousand forints for each adult's monthly income, and increase the minimum wage to a net amount of 150 thousand forints. The person who can choose between 100 thousand and 150 thousand forints, not only the international examples, but also the Hungarians, chooses the work and the 150 thousand forints. So it is not true that basic income does not encourage work. Next year, only the basic proposal for a crisis management income, with a transfer of HUF 1200 billion, without restructuring the budget, will be able to immediately introduce the basic crisis management income. It's enough just to transfer money for the Butcher Lawrence, government propaganda and Paks II, and we already have the cover. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the basic proposal for a dialogue income is the only programme calculated for a penny that offers a real way out of the crisis and provides immediate help to people. Enough of the humiliation of Viktor Orbán, enough of the theft, enough of the elimination! Hungarian people want security and a life without anxiety. This can only be taken by the basic income programme of the Dialogue. Thank you.
u2020-06-10-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. Eleven minutes left two seconds for Congressman Sándor Burány to whom I give the floor.
u2020-06-10-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Before this year's budget hearing, we had two great expectations for the bill that had been tabled. One was to take effective action to remedy social injustice over the last ten years, and the second was to include effective measures and allocated resources to address the effects of the crisis. We must conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that this waiting has not worked. This proposal for a budget law shows, in particular, its social insensitivity and either underestimates the effects of the crisis or simply refuses to deal with it. True, there is much talk about the crisis at the level of communication. At the level of communication, since the bill does not need renaming, it does not need renaming and renaming existing funds. However, if we ask the question of how much extra resources you are setting up to mitigate the effects of the crisis, I must say that the line in this area is rather modest. Let me start by saying a few numbers to show the proportions. It seems that sport is still a very important priority for the government. This alone would not be a great tragedy; a tragedy lies in disproportion. As a Member, I listened carefully to the words of the lead speaker of Fidesz, and at that time I just thought it was a rhetorical catch, that he began with a quote from the Buddha and could progress until the end of his speech to a quote from Michael Jordan. But I have to say, if we look only at the amendment of this year's budget law, which is also being discussed in this House these days, it is clear from its justification that this disproportion is being made, and then perhaps it is understandable why this sheet was so important for the general speaker of Fidesz to get from Buddha to Michael Jordan. Well, the amendment to this year's Budget Act also states that until now, extra HUF 40 billion has been transferred to support sport, while HUF 26 billion has been spent on job protection. Twenty-six billion, less than what was transferred to support sport in this bill. Next year's draft budget law contains these imbalances unchanged, not only in terms of sport, but also in terms of increasing them if possible. In order to mitigate the effects of the crisis, it was quite clear that at least two things were important in dealing with its consequences. One is that those who still have jobs, but those who are in danger, should be protected by the government, by the state. The other is that those who have fallen out of this situation despite this protection have become unemployed, and those who have been seriously helped by the government. Well, none of it's going to happen enough. In the next year's budget bill, some more than 108 billion forints are set to support job search care. A hundred and eight billion, in a situation where we are talking about over 400 thousand people who have lost their jobs. Compared to this, the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway has a significantly higher amount of HUF 132 billion. Is this what you call economic protection, that a controversial investment, which, moreover, strengthens our dependence on China, will spend more in the next year than the total amount of people who lost their jobs in support? Is that your social sensitivity? The proposal of the Dialogue is clear. The period for granting unemployment benefit should be extended to at least nine months instead of the current three months, the nine months that were the norm in this field before your administration. The amount should also be increased: we recommend at least 85% of current wages, of course with top ceilings. You are sweeping these proposals off the table, and consider it more important for you to invest in big projects than to support people in distress. Similarly, they deal with the most successful and the largest Hungarian municipalities. The most successful, the most economically powerful and the largest settlement size. [[13.00]] Although next year's draft budget law suggests in the cold language of the figures that local government support is growing, the reality is that in the case of the most successful and the largest municipalities, you will withdraw more than HUF 150 billion compared to this year's amounts. They withdraw some 35 billion dollars worth of car tax and use nearly 120 billion forints of criminal tax that you call social contribution. You say that the more affluent municipalities should contribute to helping the less-favoured municipalities. You can say they do it with a good heart, not from their own, but from the pockets of these municipalities, stop these municipalities from helping those in distress directly. This is what we can consider as a criminal action, an act of revenge, and as a result, more people have pointed out in today's debate that the country's largest economical authority is now going to pay more into the state register than it is getting from the state register in the form of normative aid. 30 years ago, since the introduction of the local government, this has never been the case. That's what you have in mind about the crisis, a little revenge, you always have time. Let's see what they're up to in the area of pensions. Here, too, we expected that the split which is not only in wages, but also in pensions, that a large proportion of pensioners are now receiving pensions under the minimum wage, could not make a normal living of this, while the pensions of millions are becoming less frequent, as is the break-up and split-up of wages, which is something that can be observed in pensions, we expected you to propose to the extent of this injustice. They increase minimum pensions at least. Or reintroduce the Swiss indexation, which existed before your administration, which would eliminate this injustice, would not be so behind pensions for wages as you do in the current system, when you are willing to replace only the inflation impact in the current budget. It should be noted that the real inflationary basket, perceived by the people, shows quite different data than the official KSH basket. It is enough to go to the market to see that everyday market prices are less and less reflected in the official numbers of the HCSO. We clearly say that at least the resources for the equity pension increase, which does not reach one billion, even one billion, need to be increased, and the eligibility limit should be increased from 85 thousand forints to 100 thousand forints at least. Where is this not exactly a billion forints compared to the huge investment in sports subsidies that you are so proud of? Well, instead, they'd be proud to help pensioners, the most needy pensioners. But you seem to be insensitive and have little willingness to do so. And finally, health care. Healthcare may have the biggest re-labellings, but if we look at the specific increase, which is, say, the growth of the healing-preventing cash register, this is the cash register that basically ensures the cost of renovation in health care, health wage development, we see that this increase is 138 billion. While the aforementioned giga projects, Paks II, the Liget project, the opaque renovations of the railway, and the construction of sports halls will be allocated some HUF 2000 billion in the next year's budget. Of course, this is a state investment; they say that they will protect the economy through public investment, because it has a demand-enhancing effect. Of course, only the demand-enhancing effect of this will not be felt by much of the country at all. The lucky chosen ones who belong to your environment belong to your moonyard, but they do. To sum up, therefore, social aid, substantial help for pensioners, low-retired people, health care, health care workers' wages in this budget, there are no resources at all, or there are very modest resources, so this is quite simply insufficient. And speaking of Buddha and apologizing to Michael Jordan, I will not quote him, once asked the Dalai Lama how he could sum up the principles of Buddhism. He said that in the first step, once someone got there, that if they couldn't help, at least it wouldn't hurt, it would be a serious step forward. Well, my fellow Fidesz and pro-government Members, I suggest you take the same approach: if you can no longer help me, because the budget figures are not meaningful, then at least don't hurt me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Szabó Timea and László Varju applaud.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-06-10-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now, the speaker invited by the committee representing Hungarian minorities will present the Committee's position in a total time frame of 20 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a representative of the minority, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language, that is, German, and then, translated into Hungarian, continues his speech in Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-33	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T-10710. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Wie es schon gewöhnt ist wenn es gesagt werden kann, fange ich meinen Diskussionsbeitrag mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe an. Er hat gesagt:., Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the central budget for 2021 T/10710. Bill No. 1 concerning the parts of the legislation concerning the needs of the nationalities. My comment on the draft budget law, if you can say that I have now traditionally started with the quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which reads in Hungarian: "The tolerance can only mark a temporary state, which should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Accepting is therefore not enough; only acceptance is an insult in itself. We want more, we expect more: recognition! Our ancestors' lives have provided a sufficient basis for recognition, and we are still working for it. It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. Let me therefore start with a brief reflection on the draft central budget law for 2021: in the beginning of the last cycle, in 2014, what position were the nationalities living in Hungary; in the previous six years what and how have we been able to move forward; where are we today, what goals do we have, what tasks to solve to achieve them? Without a sufficient review and knowledge of all of this, it is not possible to give a realistic assessment of the past years or the national needs relating to the central budget for 2021, to address them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. Nearly six years ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that this first minority Parliamentary contribution should have taken place here in the Hungarian Parliament more than 25 years earlier, so we have to eliminate decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. Then, for minutes, it was possible and had to be marked as to the conditions under which nationalities living in Hungary have been forced to live and operate for decades. [[13.10]] As an example and as a reminder, first of all, the so-called NMZ frameworks available to support the operation of national minority civil society organisations, to support national cultural programmes have not changed from 2002 to 2014 and did not cover a fraction of the incoming needs, 10-15 percent. Secondly, the annual budget of HUF 30 million at the time for native school camps was so low compared to the needs that there was virtually no point in applying either. On the basis of a minority child, the then framework was sufficient for two dumplings of ice cream a day. Thirdly, the annual operating support of municipal self-governments was on average HUF 222 thousand gross, equivalent to HUF 14 500 per month. Fourthly, the national minority authorities have constantly increased economic, financial and administrative costs without increasing subsidies, with changes in public finance legislation and the various legal requirements. In summary, it should be said that until 2013, the support of nationalities living in Hungary was in a deplorable state, and this is still a very fine expression of the actual situation at the time. However, from 2013 onwards, there have been very positive changes that have been encouraging. On the one hand, the most important and positive change in 2013 from a nationality point of view was, without a doubt, a significant increase in the support of the national minority public education institutions maintained by the national authorities and became normative. On the other hand, with the possibility of taking over and setting up local minority self-governments, legislative opportunities have been opened to build up national cultural and educational autonomy. With the 2014 parliamentary elections, Parliament's representation was granted to 13 Hungarian nationalities, which opened up new opportunities and a new period for us. The first serious result of Parliament's representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by increasing the support of less than HUF 4 billion previously and, for many years, unchanged by around HUF 2 billion, by more than 50 percent. As a combined effect of the last six years, we have been able to achieve substantial improvements in the following areas. Firstly, we have raised the operating and cultural support funding framework of national minority NGOs from HUF 110-110 million to HUF 500 and HUF 700 million, i.e. about five and a half times. Secondly, we were able to raise the current 30 million forints, or 13 times the current 30 million for minority native language student camps. I would add that we have always, everywhere and in every situation, treated the mother tongue student camps as a top priority, and even this 13-folded framework continues to cover only part of objective, realistic needs. I'll talk to you about that later. Thirdly, we have doubled the overall operating support of local ethnic authorities by fourfold, the so-called task-based differentiated support framework. Fourthly, the support of the institutions maintained by national minority authorities and national minority media, as well as national minority self-governments, was significantly increased in 2015 and 2017; thus the most pressing financing problems of the operation could be addressed. Fifthly, we have been able to provide a complementary framework for national minority support in important areas, such as support for national theatres, additional support for local minority authorities receiving the maintenance of national minority institutions, and additional support for the national minority public education and cultural institutions operating in the maintenance of national minority self-governments and associations. Finally, but what I consider to be of particular importance for our future as a nationality educator is the programme. I am pleased to report that, as the first point of the national minority educator programme, which was developed in 2016, in order to better appreciate national minority teachers, we have increased the nationality supplement from 10 to 15 per cent on 1 January 2018 and from 15 to 30 per cent on 1 January 2019 and, finally, from 30 to 40 per cent on 1 January 2020 so that in two years, we have increased the nationality bonus for ethnic teachers who teach and educate in ethnic languages at least 50 per cent of their term. At the same time, on 1 January 2020 we introduced two lower levels, a lower, 25 percent and 10 percent bonus categories for those who have not yet received a nationality allowance, so all ethnic teachers are now receiving a nationality allowance, in proportion to their education and educational work in the minority language. I think it is important to point out that all ethnic teachers of all nationalities, regardless of maintaining the nationality bonus, have received and will continue to receive the wage coverage of the national minority bonus increase, not to the expense of anyone else, but to the budget surplus of all three years, and will continue to receive it in the future. Thus, the increase in national minority allowances will provide an additional income of nearly HUF 3.5 billion to some 3,500 national teachers in 2021. As the second very important point of the minority educator's programme, we launched the national education student scholarship. From 1 September 2018, we signed a contract with 87 students for the first year of the first year of the National Education School, and from 1 September 2019 we signed a contract with 317 young students from the three years of the National Education Teachers and the first year of the first year of the National Education, Teachers and Teachers. From 1 September 2020, we can extend the scholarship to all six years of the teaching, teaching and teaching students of nationalities, so it is expected that some 500-550 young ethnic teachers will receive scholarships from autumn. At the same time, we are making serious efforts towards training universities and colleges in order not only to increase the number of minority students, but also to increase the quality of the education of nationality educators, in particular the significant development of ethnic language competences. The bulk of this work is still ahead of us, and I will discuss it in more detail on Friday. Even during the general debate of the 2017 Central Budget Act and every year since then, at this point, I have continued my contribution by saying that, after all these extremely joyful, long-awaited positive changes, we think that this is a moment where we must thank you without reservation and all the problems, tasks, tensions that remain, and no doubt remain existing; and that is what I am doing now. [[13.20]] On behalf of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, I would like to thank the Hungarian Government, of course, but the entire Hungarian Parliament, each former and present-day Member of Parliament, for the last six years. Thank you in particular for the fact that the affairs of indigenous nationalities in Hungary have been removed from the daily political battles as an unwritten rule, and all ethnic proposals have been adopted unanimously in the last six years. Thank you. May God keep their good habits. At the same time, these increases should be managed and evaluated in place, in addition to the specific figures, by a full review of the situation of nationalities in Hungary. On the one hand, who looks at the very positive changes in nationality in recent years, merely at numbers and percentages, and only knows them, you see, it is right to say that the nationalities living in Hungary have received a significant increase in support compared to the general increase in the budget in recent years, and in this respect they are undoubtedly right. On the other hand, who sees it comprehensively, knows in depth the situation of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, the whole process, the content behind the numbers, how deep we started to maintain our mother tongue, identity, traditions, transfer or rather return to our children, how much we are in the last hour, it also knows that the last six years have been enough to hold on, to get faith again, and to start with a new impetus on that path, to launch long-term programmes that we hope will ensure the survival and survival of indigenous ethnicities living in Hungary. The consultation and understanding of these two viewpoints, opinions and the establishment of an appropriate consensus have also been a feature of the process of reconciliation of national needs for the 2019, 2020 and the current draft central fiscal law for 2021. In the 2020 Central Budget Act, Roma subsidies were transferred to XIV. The Ministry of Interior, and the other 12 nationalities, the XI. It's in the Prime Minister's Office chapter, so I'm talking about them separately. The T-10710. The bill on Hungary's central budget for 2021 contains a surplus of HUF 802.5 million for Roma ethnicity subsidies compared to 2020. We consider this to be appropriate, so no further increases or amendments have been made. However, in the case of another 12 Hungarian nationalities, the bill contains a real reduction in subsidies of HUF 422 million, as well as in the case of the XI. The XLVII has been redeployed from 1 billion HUF 818.7 million to the title order of the Nationalities Institutions for investment, renovation and tendering. Chapter 2.1.7, the Economic Fund. The budget needs of the Hungarian nationalities in 2021 have been drawn up on the basis of very detailed and thorough surveys and analyses, and most of them have already been prepared for the 2020 budget proposal, but unfortunately they have not been included in the 2020 budget law. We have, of course, consulted the national national minority self-governments, the purses responsible for nationalities, and we will reconvene with the parliamentary factions. On this basis, the 12 Hungarian nationalities intend to submit a total of HUF 1.1 billion amendment to the 2021 budget bill. The need to change the 12 nationalities arises in a key area of focus, which is to support the operation of national minority self-governments and institutions maintained by the media as well as national minority self-governments. I must first note that the last four years ago, in the 2017 Central Budget Act, there was a substantial increase in support for national minority self-governments, but since then there have been a series of legislative and economic changes that objectively justify the increase in aid; however, I will discuss them in detail in my speech tomorrow. In the meantime, thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The first independent Member to apply now has the opportunity to speak. Accordingly, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, who will speak here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the budget before us next year, I would like to make my most important observations from the perspective of the municipalities, the municipalities and the people living in the cities and villages of our country; even because if we look back on the last few months, we can say that the municipalities have been out of control in the epidemic situation and, unfortunately, they will receive the withdrawal of the car tax, the withdrawal of the car tax for the following years, as well as the extension of the solidarity contribution tax. Dear Parliament, The budget in front of us is the budget for bleeding out municipalities and municipalities. This happens when we are in Europe, and we do not have to go far enough to neighbouring Austria, providing substantial support to local authorities and municipalities, because there they perceive that the efforts made by the various municipalities must be rewarded. However, the Hungarian government has decided that it intends to sacrifice the municipalities until 2024, which is apparent from the budgetary outlook. We cannot allow this, we cannot allow Fidesz to have the opportunity to further decommission the local government after 2022 and to take these measures. As an opposition MP in Vas county, I have received numerous signals from mayors and other important local actors, towns and villages of the county, and in this context I have been trying to submit technically sound budgetary amendments. I would also like to present these, of course, without the need for completeness. I'd like to start with the county seat, Szombathely, because I've always considered the fate of Szombathely to be my heart. As a very positive development, I appreciate the support of HUF 100,000 for those on Saturday who lost their jobs because of the epidemic situation; the Mayor András Nemény and the city administration have set a budget of HUF 400 million. I urge that a change be made that the government, the state, compensates for the support of the people who have lost their jobs as a result of the epidemic, because I think that the people who live there deserve it; even because they have to face various restrictions, as I have already suggested. This may have the consequence, honourable Members, that despite all the efforts of the city's leadership, the operation of the swimming pool, the Savaria Symphony Orchestra, or even the lack of flights in public transport, could be endangered and countless examples could be set. Everything must be done to ensure that this is not the case, and that is why I felt it was important for me to present this amending budget. As regards the road development of the county, it must be acknowledged that progress has been made in the development of the 8th, although I note here that in the election campaign in 2018, I said that this should be done as a motorway; only because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made several promises during his visits to Körmend, for example, and Vas County still does not have a single kilometer of motorways. [[13.30]] But if that is the case, Honourable Parliament, then I think that the section of 86 between Szombathely and Church Radoc must be extended, as has happened between Szombathely and Győr, and it is equally important to develop the post-Hegyhátsal section of road 76, as we can talk about an accident-threatening phase in this case, where, unfortunately, fatal accidents have occurred in recent years. I propose the purchase and renovation of Petőfi Sándor Peasant House with regard to Ostffyonymányfa. In the same way, I consider it important to buy back, renovate the Weöres-Ostffy castle, preserve the Ajkay mansion and provide substantial support for the maintenance of the first world war prisoner cemetery in the settlement. As with Kőszeg in recent years, I have presented a proposal to encourage the construction of a public cemetery, but it is also important to renovate the roads in the city, and I also propose the construction of the community house of János Kiss, in consultation with an independent Vas county assembly representative and municipal representative of Kőszeg. In the case of Chanig, it would be important to develop a playground, to renovate roads, to build a sewer network and to build a gas network for Messen. With regard to the village Nemesbőd, the renovation of inland trenches and drainages, the purchase of a village bus, the renovation of a kindergarten, the construction of a nursery. The latter is important because fortunately, more and more young people live and move to the settlement. I propose road and sidewalk reconstruction and the renovation of the building of the mayor's office, the building of a common municipal office, with the aim of becoming a beautiful and European village from Nemesbőd. I would like to bring here the case of the renovation of the medical office and the construction of the sewer network, while in the case of the Guardian Pankas, I propose the renovation of the day-care home kitchen and road development. Döröske is a small village. Here, the renovation of the former school building would be very important, substantial steps should be taken, and otherwise this is also a problem to be solved in other settlements in the country. That is why I thought that I would bring this to the Parliament, and it would be important to make use of it. With regard to Rönök, the road to the Church of St. Imre should be renewed, even because during the period of the regime change, Austrian-Hungarian cooperation was able to renew the area and rebuild the church, and it would be good for them to arrive in a suitable environment, whether the Austrians or the Hungarian believers. To do so, it would be essential to develop this path, which was previously promised by the government. As regards Nemes kocs, I propose the purchase of equipment necessary for the settlement of the public areas of the settlement, while in the train of the town of Kam, I propose the complete internal renovation of the kindergarten and the exploitation of the building of the old school. In the case of Körmend, I would like to bring the country flag case here, and I think that I do not need to describe in particular why this would be important on the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Trianon peace dictator, that the necessary improvements should be made here, but it would also be important to resolve the drainage of the railway station, to rebuild the water mill and to re-open the cinema, which I also called for earlier; I will propose these improvements in consultation with independent municipal representatives from Auer Miklós Körmend, recognising that, for example, progress has been made with regard to flood protection. In the case of the city of Szentgotthárd, I am once again bringing the importance of setting up a residential home for elderly people; the question of the construction of a cycling and pedestrian lane, which could make progress for people living in the Jewish and Rábakethely parts of the city. I propose to establish an athletic career in my amendment. It must also be acknowledged that progress has been made both in terms of road development and in the development of Lake Hársas. I also welcome this because I have put forward proposals of this kind before. But I have to bring you the scythe factory or the Romhotel question. I have consulted the members of the Szentgotthárdért Association, primarily with representatives of the local government, Andrea Bartakovics and Viktor Orbán on these matters, and I think that it is absolutely important to take action in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it the most important of the various opposition parties to do their best to ensure that we can restore the local government in Hungary in 2022. I can promise you that, as the only opposition parliamentary representative of Vas County, I will do everything I can to ensure that we can live in a happy, democratic and just Hungary after 2022. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-10-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Z. Carpath. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-37	Mr President, Dear House, At last, the debate may come to a stage where it can become a debate, and not into the era of narratives side by side. I very much hope that, although we see the fate of our country in different ways, we can turn it into at least one argument-based debate for the development of our nation, which in many cases seemed to be a production report during the morning, or a series of different statements by parties that are self-realising. Actually, I am going to speak to my fellow lead speaker at KDNP, who spoke some strange words to us. I would like to approach it simply from the basis of the profession when it accuses Members who, my fellow Member, bring here a very strong national programme, a national home-building and rental-building programme that contributes, my fellow Member, to enabling young Hungarians to thrive at home, in this country, to take on children who may later be taxpayers. What I see is that you have markers. My request is that you and your government have the answers to what they send to a young Hungarian who is unable to use the discount system of the CSOK, cannot buy a new-built residential park apartment, but is living in a sublet, with LTP, Fundamenta, by any other means, to have a home, what do you say as an alleged right-wing representative to these young people? Because we brought in a national program, a ten-pointer. We put it on the table. Is there a more important matter of national strategy than a young man getting along in his country? Is there anything more national than having a child in a demographic winter in the middle of a demographic disaster? Fellow Members! The time for ratings is over. Now, either we achieve in this area, and we stop the tragic loss of population, or we will ravage and lose together, and this country will become even more vulnerable. I wouldn't vote for the second. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-10-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, I would like to inform my fellow Members and ask the technical staff to act accordingly, that the Group of Dialogue has informed me that the remaining 15 minutes and 59 seconds will be renounced to the MSZP Group. And now I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to start by saying that every year, in the debate on the budget proposal, I look forward to the debate with the hope that we will first look at the economic and budgetary processes that characterize the country and start from facts; secondly, we will look at the challenges ahead; and thirdly, we will try to formulate the right answers to the challenges we have seen. I see from some of the keynote speeches that, unfortunately, we can't even reach the first point. We cannot identify exactly the situation in which the country is in, what the budget is. If we had done so, if we had assessed the current situation and the government policy of the last ten years on the basis of facts, then there would have been no findings that there has been no systemic change in the past period; that there has been lost opportunities for the last ten years; that the economic system has not worked - the Hungarian economy is not sustainable. And allow me to say that it is a little strange that left-wing speakers say that we need to take the budget seriously, what it meant in Hungarian economic history - and that the current budget is intellectually weak, we give weak answers. If we try to evaluate the various government performances in such a dialectical way, let us look at what we have achieved over the past ten years, what numbers, what performance, what economic policy is that which is characterized by numbers, what it shows in the light of the last ten years. Allow me to compare the indicators seen at the beginning of the current economic problems with those seen before the previous economic crisis, given that the economic processes of the whole world are in a completely different fashion than we thought a few months ago. [[13.40]] On this basis, I think that it can really be assessed that the ten years, the economic policy that characterizes the 2021 budget, whether it has been sustainable for public finances, whether it has succeeded and whether it has been possible to achieve systemic changes. In 2008, before the economic crisis at that time, GDP growth in the last year before the crisis was 1.1 percent, and in 2019 it was 4.9 percent. The household savings rate in 2008 was 2.1 percent, and last year it was 12 percent. It has been said that in the last nine years, an average wage increase of 7% has been achieved. Government debt has been substantially reduced. But maybe less often, let me mention two indicators. The ability to finance. This was minus 6.2 percent at the national economy level, now plus 1 percent, meaning that the national economy is not only dependent on external resources but can provide loans. This is why net external debt decreased from 52,6 per cent in 2008 to 7.9 per cent. Why were we able to make these changes? I think it is because there have been systemic changes in economic policy and these changes have focused primarily on the labour market. The employment rate was 56.4 per cent in 2008 and more than 70 per cent in 2019. The second largest of the EU Member States has been the increase in employment rates and, as appropriate, the unemployment rate has also decreased significantly. Before the crisis, this was 7.8 percent, which went up to almost 12 percent and decreased to 3.3 percent by the end of 2019. I think that these indicators together resulted in only one final figure: from the first quarter of 2010 until the first quarter of 2020, the Hungarian economy grew by 32.5 percent in real terms. During the same period, the EU average was 12.8 percent. I therefore believe that this economic policy has been successful on the basis of figures and on the basis of factual data, and that this gives us the basis to take forward the main directions of this economic policy, its main lines, in 2021, and to adapt, as appropriate, to the current situation. The focus of this economic policy and the proposal for a budget law of 21 is on job creation. It's a long debate. We do not believe that financing a basic income or unemployment would help. I think that the figures just mentioned are a lesson in the fact that the economic policy that has encouraged employment from 2010 onwards, which has offered jobs instead of aid, has indeed resulted in success. That is why we do not want to change this policy, which is why the economic protection fund is included with HUF 2555 billion, and therefore we do not want to increase the amount or duration of unemployment aid in response to the current crisis, but we want to make it possible for as few people as possible to be unemployed and to create jobs for those who are unemployed. Among the keynote speeches, it was said that this job creation can only be achieved by the state in public works or in the defence. Let's look at the data again. It can also help to amend the 2020 budget law before the Honourable Parliament: it is clear that we are focusing on creating new jobs in the competitive sphere. Only 806 companies in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's almost normative support system have submitted support, 806 companies receive support with state aid of some HUF 170 billion, at least the same size of investment and the preservation of employees. This is just one of the many programs that focuses essentially on the competition sphere. And, yes, not everyone can be in the competitive sphere. For them, employment in the public sector could be an alternative option. As regards the part of the labour market processes that these changes represent only 10 percent of society's progress, it was said that 90 percent of society's losses are bad, and I have to repudiate that. The evolution of unemployment figures alone shows that those who have not had a job before can now take up work, but also the changes seen in income categories support this. Let me say the change in the salary of the lowest earners, the change in the minimum wage. The net amount of the minimum wage, in the case of no children or children, increased by 77.7 percent between 2010-2020. If inflation is taken into account, real growth is 42 percent. If one has three children and works on a minimum wage, then the real income growth corrected by inflation is close to 108 percent. In other words, there has also been a very significant increase in real earnings in the case of employment, i.e. in the case of employees, among those in the lower categories of payments. What does this budget tell Hungarian families, young people? I've heard it from Jobbik's ranks. He says that if you want to work, you can work, and you have the hope that your income can grow in real meaning. He said to young people that if they wanted to work and to start a family, to have children, the government would give them the help they needed to have children or to create a home. That is why we introduced family protection measures, support for home creation, and I think that this is also the reason why, for example, more people came home last year from data from the Hungarian Central Statistical Office than they had gone. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] This economic policy and this budget policy say that it is worth staying home for young people. There is no question that there are countries in Europe where income levels are higher. But, please, let's look at the changes in incomes since 2010, if you like, the wage dynamics, and let's also look at the subsidies available to young people and family founders in addition to wages, either when buying, building new properties or in support areas related to childbearing. In the 2021 budget, not only the amount of family support is increasing, but, as has been said on several occasions in the keynote speech, and the funding of priority areas has also been mentioned in the Minister's exposé. I think that those speakers who have said that the government has bled out health care will reduce health expenditure in real terms, or that the quote that the government is constantly pressing down on education and health is going down, which is not factually true, and show that those speakers have not read the bill of budget law for 2021 before you, nor have they known the facts of the past years. Therefore, allow me to repeat the data on the priority areas, although Minister Varga did so in his exposé. I compare the figures not only with the 2010 budget, but also with the 2020 budget. Health. From 2020 to 21 in a year, nominal growth is HUF 156.4 billion. This is an 8 percent increase from 2020 to 21. The planned inflation rate is 3 percent. Expenditure is increasing not only nominally, but also in real terms. Compared to 2010, the increase is 77 percent. The cumulative rate of inflation is less than 29 percent. We will say this in every debate, and I will also look at Mrs State Secretary, we also have responsibilities in the field of health, as in all other areas. However, the claims that the government would have withdrawn funds from, for example, health care or other sectors are factually incorrect. The increase in education between 2010 and 2021 is 54 percent, from 2020 to 21 percent. Retirements. A statement has also been made that the government is insensitive to pensioners. There are also persons who have reached retirement age in the Honourable Parliament. I suggest you ask them. In the specific interpretation, I cannot place insensitiveness to pensioners if I see that the amount of pension benefits has not only preserved its real value, but, for example, pensions have increased in real terms thanks to the pension premium and, in many cases, less than the planned rate of fact inflation. [[13.50]] In 2021 pensions will increase by HUF 326.7 billion in absolute terms by 9 percent compared to 2020. This is a significant step forward compared to 3% inflation, inter alia, because we are counting on the payment of the pension premium. We are confident that growth will be higher than 3.5 percent and, as has been said, pensioners will be able to expect one week's pension as part of the 13th month pension recovery in 2021. As far as the municipal sector is concerned, serious findings have also been made here. I quote from these: the municipalities are bleeding out, the municipalities are being cut off, the municipalities are being squeezed by the government instead of supporting them. Let's look again at how the government's approach to the municipal system has been a little more far-reaching. A debt consolidation of nearly HUF 1300 billion was carried out, and from 2013 the financing system was significantly reformed. Thanks to this debt consolidation, the restructuring of the financing system and economic growth, municipalities have typically closed their budgets with surpluses in recent years. This is true throughout the municipal system. In the last five years, 2014-2019, due to economic growth, local government's most significant revenue and local business revenues increased by HUF 260 billion. That's a 50 percent increase. So this was the financial situation, one of the typical impressions of which was that at the end of 2019 the total deposits of municipalities amounted to HUF 800 billion. This includes the aid advances granted by the government to municipalities under various programmes, and the sovereign debt stock was HUF 285 billion. This financial situation has therefore marked the municipalities, and we have asked the municipalities for a partnership in this. Someone said that with a successful government, the government will find a partner. I hope that, in order to protect against the epidemic and restore the economy, the municipalities will also take their share of the burden. The majority of municipalities are successful because they have benefited from the benefits of economic growth, because they have benefited from the restructuring of the financing system or debt consolidations and are able to accept the need for a transfer of motor vehicles of around 1 percent of municipal revenues and expenditure in the current situation, and this is also the case in 2021, as protection against the epidemic, the preservation of the health situation and the re-launching of the economy have an important role to play in 2021. In fact, if we look at either the development of subsidies or the change in the system of solidarity contributions, then, on the basis of the bill before you, I think that these claims can be refuted and we hope that the recovery of the economy can be achieved as soon as possible, and it will be the economic growth that will continue to improve the position of local authorities in recent years. On the basis of the bill submitted, the government provides a HUF 200 billion credit line for some municipalities that need further assistance because of their own local financial positions. This is the credit line which may provide temporary assistance to those programmes, in addition to grants, in order to address the financial situation of each municipality. [[In the notary seat Gergely Arató is replaced by Bence Tordai.]] Finally, as regards the transparency of the budget, it has been said from a number of keynotes that some parts cannot be recognised. With all due respect, I suggest that everyone also take a look at the chapter volumes submitted to the Parliament. Then perhaps misunderstandings such as those mentioned by Szabó Timea, that the funding of the practice communities will be lost, or misunderstandings such as the availability of resources for some investments will be clarified, as they are known in the volumes submitted. I hope that by reviewing these and in the debate ahead, we will be able to clarify these misunderstandings by making the facts known. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-10-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This is now the time for the speeches by the Members who have been registered in advance in writing. The first of the Fidesz Group is to speak to Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-10-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/10710 in front of us. With regard to bill No.11 we can say that the year 2021 will be the 11th year since the change of government in 2010, when the civil government has the opportunity and the social authority to prepare and present Hungary's budget to Parliament for the next year. In view of the positive changes in the Hungarian economy, it is also clear that Hungary has made a great and successful journey over the past ten years. Since the change of government in 2010, it is clear that we have managed to leave behind the failing economic policy of the left, and with a fundamentally new type of economic policy, the civilian government, in cooperation with the Hungarian people, can actually say that it has led the country out of the crisis and inherited situation near the state bankruptcy. For this, of course, we basically needed a new economic approach, effective government measures and, as I mentioned earlier, the efforts of the Hungarian people as well. Looking at the evolution of macroeconomic data over the last ten years, it is worth pointing out that the change of government in 2010 has led to a clear economic policy change as the economy is on the path to growth. In addition, Hungary's GDP has increased by more than 30 percent since 2010. Then, in recent years, we have been out of the overdeficit procedure, we have repaid the EU-IMF giga loan taken up by the left, and, in addition, the Hungarian economy has been characterised by declining public debt, low government deficits, growing employment, growing industry, booming retail and outstanding exports. The extent to which government support for individual sectors or large supply systems has increased since 2010, including inflation, and given the extent to which it is growing from 2020 to 2021, has already been discussed in detail, and I would not comment on this, if I may. However, I think it is important to stress that, unlike the civil government in recent years, instead of tax increases that have become commonplace in the time of the socialists - tax reductions have been introduced, and a prominent family support system has also started to be set up at European level, the expansion of support for home creation and significant wage increases have also opened new horizons for Hungarian families. In conclusion, the Hungarian economy has been strengthened over the past ten years and the budget is stable. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] This spring, however, we were struck by a new invisible enemy, namely the coronal virus epidemic, which caused not only health but also a kind of economic crisis not only in Hungary, but also throughout Europe and the world. Despite the difficulties, however, we can trust that Hungary will also be able to respond successfully to the global economic crisis that has arisen as a result of the epidemic. We can be optimistic in the first place because the current crisis has found our country in a particularly good economic condition, not in a weakened state in 2008. We can also say that the first stage of health protection against the virus has been successful and that the epidemic seems to have come to a standstill. Let us hope that this will remain so in the long term. Nevertheless, the Hungarian economy also suffered a crisis. However, I believe that with the new budget planned for 2021, we have a good chance that our country will be able to produce one of the most stable economic achievements in Europe in the coming year. In the light of economic developments, major challenges and even declines in many sectors are obviously expected this year, but with sound, prudent and effective government decisions to boost the economy, preliminary calculations and calculations are expected to increase by about 4.8 percent in the following year. In the planning of the central budget next year, the government had to pay particular attention to two essential aspects. One is the protection of the economy and the other is the management of the epidemiological situation. [[14.00]] Accordingly, the number of proposals before us shows that the focus of the 2021 budget is on re-launching the economy in a difficult situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic and maintaining epidemiological preparedness. The government's aim is to allow the Hungarian economy to return to its former growth path at European level as soon as possible. This is also the goal of Hungary's biggest programme of economic protection, which will continue to be implemented in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the adoption of the budget now represents a particular responsibility for the Parliament, since the success of crisis management will affect the future of all Hungarian people. That is why I trust that, regardless of political affiliation, we all agree that the results of the Hungarian economy must be protected from the effects of the coronal virus epidemic and that the resources needed to do so must be fully secured. This is precisely what the draft budget before us calls for. Unfortunately, my optimism about opposition support for the 2021 budget is somewhat nuanced by the opposition's contributions, speeches or statements of opinion and, of course, the fact that the left-wing opposition did not even praise the budget for next year at the beginning of today's debate so that the Minister of Finance could listen to his exposé. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] But speaking of the crisis and crisis management, it is worth comparing the economic crisis management of left-wing governments and the current government before 2010. While in 2008-2009, when a different type of economic crisis, but a crisis such as the current one, became a global crisis, the left-wing governments in Hungary tried to respond with austerity, redundancies, debt and tax increases to these negative effects, negative processes, while the current government of Hungary said that the problem should be helped rather than taken away. In other words, not with restrictions, but on the contrary, with economic recovery measures, government grants, partnership agreements, credit moratorium and preferential lending, tax reductions, wage support and competitiveness-enhancing programmes, investment promotion, and on the other hand, how many other government measures the current cabinet intends to reduce the burden on businesses and the general public. The economic protection action plan announced by the government, which has otherwise become known as the biggest economic recovery package of all time, focuses essentially on five main areas. One is the preservation of jobs, the other is the creation of new jobs, the third is the strengthening of priority sectors. Also, as a separate chapter, the financing of businesses is included in this action plan, and the other largest chapter covers government measures designed or implemented to support families and to protect pensioners. In the framework of the action plan, the government intends to use some HUF 9000-10 000 billion to boost and support the domestic economy between 2020 and 2022. This, by the way, accounts for roughly one fifth of GDP, as we have heard several times, 18-20 percent of GDP. And if we want to show the scale of this programme, because we are talking about huge numbers, then perhaps in comparison it can be said that the amount of EU funding the country receives in seven years is comparable to the total budget of this economic protection action plan, and even slightly more than that, since the amount of EU funding is estimated to be HUF 9000 billion for seven years, and this is about HUF 10 000 billion for 2 or 2.5 years. This programme is also an extremely important leg of the so-called competitiveness-enhancing, support programme, which I can be very positive about, since in the last few days and weeks, I have had the opportunity and opportunity to attend several times, as the parliamentary representative of the Somogy 4 Constituencies in Siófok, in person at the festive moments of the award of funds managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and at the very joyful press conferences. Several companies from my constituency have applied for this source of government to increase competitiveness, and fortunately, several have won it, which, by the way, carry out developments and technological developments that will keep the workforce, create new jobs, strengthen the Somogy economy, and, of course, could also represent a technological step forward for these companies, which we are very, very happy about in our region. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that basically we do not need to be an economist to see the obvious links between a country's economy and its budget. In view of this, it is also clear that the central budgets adopted in recent years have greatly helped the domestic economy and that the improved economic environment has contributed significantly to the stability of both public finances and the budget. The budget for 2021 aims to bring the country's economic indicators to the pre-crisis level. This will, of course, also require the creation of the same number of jobs in Hungary as the virus has destroyed through the various economic stimulus measures I mentioned earlier. In recent years, we have already become accustomed to the parliamentary negotiations and adoption of the next year's budget at the beginning of summer, in the same way as the previous years. This useful practice will continue this year, increasing predictability and planning for both businesses and families and Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the budget before us serves both the successful achievement of the economic protection objectives mentioned earlier and health protection in an appropriate way, I would like to ask you with respect to your vote to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-10-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Budget Act shows a value choice. For the EPP Jobbik, education is the war affair that expresses the value of our renewed national people's party. An education policy is successful if it is able to release sound people in body, soul and spirit; if we assure all Hungarian citizens that if it comes out of the education system, it has mastered ways of thinking and conduct that can then be applied to a harmonious life within their community and their families. In addition, Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides that: In the first century we live in an accelerated world where our education system should meet serious challenges, I am thinking only of roboticisation or the accelerated development of information technology, the question of big data and artificial intelligence, so that I can only list the most important challenges that the education system should respond to. The issue of education is therefore essential for the economic, social, ecological and political and cultural development of our country; it is the most important tool for combating poverty; it is the foundation for social cohesion and national cohesion. Therefore, it is a priority nation strategy sector for EPP Jobbik; for many years we have demanded that this be presented by an independent education ministry, from kindergarten to university, from adult education and non-school-type training, because only in this holistic approach can we respond to the challenges that I have just listed. A XXI. One of the most important indicators of the development of the century's society is its appreciation of intellectuals. During wage developments at the top of the university hierarchy since 2015, there has been a wage level that is still very low even compared to the countries of the region, even when compared with the countries of the region. And here, let me quote Mr Bódis, State Secretary, from the time he was president of the Hungarian Rector's Conference, and I was personally at the conference where Rector Bódis, a gross HUF 850 thousand university teacher, demanded a 1st salary; now, as State Secretary, he does not realize this, if I remember the latest figures. [[14.10]] So I wanted to make it clear that, in particular, on the lower levels of the university hierarchy, the salary of teachers and assistant professors still does not express the value choice I spoke about at the beginning of my comment, even when compared with the salary of decent citizens doing normal, average physical work. That is why I have tabled amendments to the budget which would raise the elementary budget of universities in order to finally get a decent wage, and no, my fellow Members, it is not the civil servant's pay table that is wrong, because they are minimal amounts, and in the case of adequate funding, anyone could have differentiated pay at Hungarian universities, even on the basis of their research and teaching performance, if there were any money, but no fellow Members. In addition, I would like to increase the student scholarship in my amendment proposal, as let us also admit that the housing crisis in the larger cities is very serious, because anyone who knows, for example, the rents in Budapest knows exactly how not only a college student, but a young adult who already lives on two feet in the world of work can spend around his salary on his rent, and then buys the food from what? Another very important amendment concerns the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, as Hungarian scientific life has been disrupted by Fidesz's anti-knowledge and intellectual policy, in which research institutes have been outsourced to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I have to say that this kind of disturbance to Hungarian science is still working, and to date our country is being abandoned by highly qualified researchers. I believe, too, that as a former university leader and member of the public body of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, that we should also halt this process by raising wages included in my amendment and by providing the financial resources necessary for international cooperation that is important for researchers. Of course, this must be a priority objective of the current government, since the Hungarian scientific life, which is presented in universities on the one hand and in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on the other hand, is a priority and a nation strategy sector that cannot be replaced elsewhere. Technically, this financial recognition would therefore ensure that we try to reverse this process, which has unfortunately been caused by Fidesz's anti-science and university policy. I would particularly like to highlight the case of the Arcanum Digital Science Archive, because for a time it seemed that there was no funding for this knowledge library, and I find it quite worrying that, according to the last trial, if I have seen it correctly, the Fidesz cultural papa, Szilárd Demeter, who we know as the director of the Petőfi Literature Museum, will somehow judge these funds as well, so I find this extremely worrying. A next very important and prominent area of the value choice that my comment is about is the area of Hungarian culture. After all, culture is a national foundation according to the EPP Jobbik, which is why we considered the recent Fidesz proposal which deprived the majority of the cultural professionals of their status as civil servants to be very negative. I think that this step is also fitting into the line that I am talking about, that any intellectual center where autonomous personalities or autonomous research communities express their views is a target for Fidesz, it seems, at least these steps are pointing in this direction, unfortunately. We would not see the under-financing of the cultural sphere as a remedy, even to deprive actors of their status as civil servants, so that colour directors do not pay them in the summer because it will happen very often because of this change, but rather the culture is a national fund, which must be financed properly and not operated with different means and concepts that follow the basic principles of a kind of robbery capitalism in the cultural sphere, that I only finance what brings the money in, and so on. This question is also partly related to the funding of local governments, since according to Jobbik, all Hungarian citizens have the right to obtain the fruits of Hungarian culture. Of course, it is understandable, and we also see the results of the citational results from a political communication point of view, what happens if the broad masses of Hungarian society are informed only from the Bermuda Triangle of the M1, Facts Fake News Factory and Kossuth Rádió. I think that Hungarian culture deserves much more than that. I think that our country's value choice and XXI. Its progress in the century will not come from these people who err in the Bermuda Triangle, but on the contrary: if the Hungarian state provides all Hungarian citizens with access to culture, and for this it would, of course, need appropriate municipal funding. Unfortunately, in most smaller settlements, the cultural house no longer works as it used to, the library no longer works as it used to, and according to other fidesz politics, suspicious things like the archives I don't even talk about anymore. Here again, I have to mention the story of a high-ranking archival director who personally told me that he had been called in by a staffer in tube pants and asked him to give him a half-page explanation for the need for an archive in the world by tomorrow. Here's your fidesz choice of values. In summary, Hungarian university worlds deserve more than what is in this budget for them, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences deserves more than that, and Hungarian culture deserves more than that. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-10-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mr Péter Harrach is the leader of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-45	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There are many conditions for a good budget, and I would like to mention two things that I think are important: clearly reflect the political principles and intentions of the petitioner and adapt as a pair to reality. I feel that this budget is in line with both aspects, and that looking at the three marked packages on the expenditure side clearly serves the budgetary objective: to strengthen the economy, to maintain and increase the current level of employment, to support the childbearing and rearing of families, and to prepare for an epidemic that may occur again. Let's start with this latter, the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund, which contains HUF 3000 billion. For all such serious expenses, let us ask what value it represents. Clearly, this is about respecting and protecting life and maintaining health. [[14.20]] We certainly respect life from conception to natural death, and this respect and the intention of maintaining health appear in that fund. While we are dealing with this issue, we must look back on the defence of the past period. We can say that it was successful, and there were three conditions for this, the timely and effective government measures, the sacrifice of those involved in defence, and the discipline of the Hungarian people. Of course, health developments, asset purchases and wages have an important role to play in the preparation. I would like to highlight one more aspect. Up to now, the acquisition of assets has been based on good external economic relations, but in the next period the government will focus on domestic asset production. This applies not only to the production of vaccines, but also to the various instruments, which ultimately constitute the most important basis for the control of the epidemic. The second big package is the Economic Protection Fund, which contains HUF 2550 billion. Here, too, we have to ask what value appears in this package. The answer is clear: work, human work as a value, because it is partly the basis for the functioning of the economy and, on the other hand, it serves the healthy nature of society, because if work is in proportion to income, it corresponds to social justice. And let's add that if people who want to work get paid, and the state is able to provide jobs, they no longer have to support a broad social population. Because let's make a distinction, and that's part of social justice between those who want to work and those who don't want to work. And here I would like to refer to a right-wing and left-wing intention. Third, work is also the basis of a healthy personality, for if a person's life lacks work, it cannot lead a healthy human life. Health, of course, does not mean merely physical health. This is where I mention the difference between the view of the right and the left when we talk about work. We say that ensuring income from work is also the best social benefit, because the old saying is that good economic policy is the best social policy, in this case it is true. We do not say that aid is never needed, but we say that aid is only needed in a crisis situation. Crisis situations can be permanent, of course, if you are disabled, but if you lose your job and until you can get a new one, you will need temporary relief during the transitional period. However, if a person arranges his life to live on welfare, he expects the support of the working and working people, which is against social justice. The most important element of this package, the Economic Fund, is job insurance, protection and creation. Allow me to put a little more time on this issue, therefore, on economic policy. If we look back to the pre-punishment period, we must see that a balanced economy has been affected by this epidemic. The general government deficit was always below the reference value, in 2019 it was 2 per cent, the debt ratio was 66,33 per cent of GDP, and GDP increased by 4.9 per cent in 2019. We must add that we have also reached a peak from an investment point of view in the last year. But let us add that we hope that the 2021 budget will ensure that GDP growth is once again above 4 percent. As far as jobs are concerned, there are indeed 840 thousand more people working than ten years ago, and the unemployment rate has been 3.3 percent in the last year. If we go beyond the economic issues mentioned above, let me make one more reference to the debate that I do not want to have a say in, but in this case, I believe that the fear of trade unions regarding the amendment of the Labour Code was unfounded. I'm referring to the two-year working hours. Think of it as being unable to work for two or three months, and there was a danger that your employers would dismiss you. In this case, the employer had two options: either to let his employee go, or to keep him using his own reserve, in the hope that he will make the following year by using the working time limit, thereby ensuring not only the profits of his own company, but also the protection of the worker's employment in this case. So in this sense, this law served both parties. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Wednesday 10 June 2020 138/2. Number Parliamentary Diary And if I may, I would like to switch to family support, as the third very important and high-budget framework. We are talking about HUF 2295 billion. What is the value displayed? Let us ask this question in this case as well. We must say that the value of the family, which corresponds to human nature, is that man is a communal being, and in the communities he finds the self-emergence and unfolding of himself. And such a smallest natural community of society is important for the family, so also for the individual. The aim of family support is to support, on the one hand, childbearing, if we look at it at national level, to improve the demographic situation and to increase the well-being of the family. If you'll excuse me, I'm gonna try to bring some data up here to prove what I'm saying. The family protection action plan was launched in mid-2019 and includes measures such as baby shower support, extension of the interest-supported loan for multi-children, reduction of the mortgage debt of second or additional children, support for the car acquisition of large family members, but it is very important for mothers with four or more children to be exempt from income tax, for grandparents to continue. Even now, as far as our options are concerned, they serve the well-being and assistance of families and children, for example, by trying to improve the living conditions of families of children with type 1 diabetes. It is also a fact that 130,000 children in the motherland and in the Carpathian Basin were given the opportunity to relax in the camping. [[14.30]] Further strengthening of nursery care is also included in our budget. We could also talk about talent management, but the family is not only a member of children and parents, but also a member of the elderly grandparents, and we also need to talk about the gradual introduction of the 13th month pension. To conclude, allow me to mention one more aspect: the aspect of the long-term sustainability of the budget. A responsible government thinks that there should be no burden on the expenditure side that jeopardises long-term sustainability. The model calculation, the table on it, shows us that if we follow the largest expenditure and expected expenditure in 50 years' time, the budget can still remain stable. It is obvious that the largest increase in expenditure is reflected in the issue of pensions, but even if you look at the .4 per cent of GDP, then in 50 years' time, in 2070 a 12.4 per cent does not ruin the budget, even if it is increased to a relatively significant extent. This is a message for those today who are concerned about their livelihood in retirement, and this budget also includes changes that guarantee long-term budgetary security. I believe that whoever has read this budget and considered it in the light of the facts can say that it meets the two conditions I have mentioned, but serves well the objectives that we have set. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-10-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Instead of saying the prepared speech, I would rather be willing to respond to what has been said so far and perhaps provoke a little debate. I would like to start right away with what my fellow Member Harrach was talking about, and I would like to start with an agreement. You have said that it is the responsibility of a budget to comply with the policy principles of the applicant and to adapt to reality. In a slightly different way, I always say that a budget is always a value choice, because we give money to it, we give funding to what is most important to us, and we ensure that it is feasible at the highest level. But I also agree with you that you have listed four main points in relation to the near future, but even the medium term, which are perhaps the main areas in which Hungary is facing challenges: one of them is certainly the strengthening of the economy, the expansion of employment, and indeed the support of families and the preparation for another potential second wave. I think that these can form the basis for this debate if we move forward in such a structure. Let me add three more preliminary points to this, since you and several of your fellow Members have spoken about this. I don't see the great security in this design. Every year, they said that transparency, security and predictability are increasing, that if the budget was adopted as early as possible, many people accepted this argument. I have debated this because we are not much more transparent and even more predictable in the Hungarian budget by adopting it earlier than it was before; even in such a crisis situation, in a crisis like this, when we cannot calculate how strong the impact of the world economy environment, the Hungarian economic effects, other countries on Hungary, the Hungarian economy will be when it affects us to what extent, perhaps in such a situation it would have been even more justified to be patient, waiting for the Hungarian budget to be planned on the basis of more secure figures. The other, and perhaps it is worth talking about, or it is worth adding to the table during the debate, that there is a significant difference between the scenario of the Hungarian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, namely, the scenario of the Hungarian Government, if I remember correctly, there is a 7 percent difference, which the Secretary of State knows is a difference of hundreds of billions in the forecasts. The President of the Hungarian National Bank is constantly discussing that this is going to be a W-type crisis, that the Hungarian economy is going down, it is going back, and because everything has been so fantastic here so far, Hungary will not really feel this crisis, while the Minister of Finance has placed a much more cautious estimate on the table. To be honest, I think that Mihály Varga's approach is more rational than that of Mr Matolcsy, although I am sure that everyone would be more happy if Matolcsy were right, because it would mean that the Hungarian economy would survive this crisis more easily and almost without loss, but I do think that, in such a case, in such a budget planning, perhaps, in such external circumstances, greater caution would be more justified. The following, on which I would like to comment, was said earlier, which will be helped by Commissioner Secretary of State to put together. We are saying that there is no borrowing, so there is no increase in public debt, but GDP is decreasing, our revenues are falling, spending is increasing and there is no austerity. This is not possible, according to mathematics or economics today, unless the state can win the lottery somewhere. It is therefore not possible that our revenues will decrease, we will increase our expenditure, there will be more money for everything, both in the previous year's budget, we will not take up any extra credit, we will keep the deficit target for GDP and the public debt will not increase. I think that somewhere in this, with an English term, the wishful thinking, the hopeful thinking is sure to appear, but it is likely that, unfortunately, our next year will be more complicated than that, and certainly this year as well. Not to mention, when you're talking about not taking credit, let me draw your attention to three or four circumstances or facts. One is the Paks loan, as the government seems to have great expectations for the Paks project, the same is true for the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, one is a loan of some 3000 billion and the other is a borrowing of around 750 billion; it is true, not the IMF, it is a fact and a fact, but one is Russia and Putin and the other is the Chinese Communist Party, so it is a fact and it is true that this is a significant difference, even because, for example, Hungary has a word in the European Union, for example, at the IMF and in the European Union, because we have membership, while, I understand, in China and Russia, we do not yet have such a say in economic decisions. In fact, there was a government bond issue of EUR 4 billion, perhaps the Secretary of State said about it earlier, and if I understand the Prime Minister's words correctly, he also plans to borrow money from the European Union. I'm just trying to make sure that those Fidesz and KDNP guys, how do I put this? Speaking not on behalf of the Head of the Group, but on behalf of his colleague, that this budget is actually fantastic because you manage without borrowing what previous governments could not manage without borrowing, is, please, a lie in fact, to put it so simply. Returning to what my fellow Member Harrach has said, we see that there is insufficient resources to strengthen the economy, so we think that we need a recovery of an order of magnitude, and that is why our group leader is saying that the budget for reconstruction should have been presented instead of the budget for the hit-and-run. We think that the solution is not the right way, and it is not the right way, for example, to drive the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector into borrowing and thus to indebte them, because this will certainly not help them in the long term, as we also believe that the solution you are applying is not enough in the area of employment. [[14.40]] Congressman Harrach said that in a crisis situation it is okay to help the unemployed and families in need. With due respect, Mr. Group Leader, what are we in now, not in crisis? Because it seems to me that the whole world is talking about a crisis, and even in Hungary, the Prime Minister talked about a huge crisis two meters away from you. That is why we believe it to be true, and thank you very much for finally admitting that opposition or even MSZP points are justified, that we should indeed increase the support of the unemployed in the crisis, of course temporarily. All unemployment benefits are called job-seeking support because they have to run out of time for the worker, the unemployed, to seek employment again. So no political party, the MSZP Commissioner, does not argue that we should keep unemployed people in unemployment status forever and that we should pay them aid until the end of time. They must be paid aid, aid, as long as the Member, Mr Group leader, has said, namely, as long as we help them out of the crisis and crisis. This is why it is necessary to increase the duration of the job search allowance, and to increase the amount of it, even temporarily, I am willing to accept this proposal. The other is support for families and children. I think this task is ahead of the government, because we do not see the depth of the economic problems and the depth of the social conflicts and problems resulting from it, but it is a fact and a fact that Hungarian people should be given more money, since we read that next year one of the driving engines of the Hungarian economy or the most important driving engine of the Hungarian economy can not be exports, but consumption, or at least this year, for the rest of the period. That's why I think it's right to give people resources. This is what many of the MSZP's proposals were about to give more money to people, and it is unacceptable for us that the Budapest-Belgrád railway line has received about as much single support over the past period, more than HUF 80 billion, almost as much as they spend to support jobs or wages. In our view, and this cannot be regarded as historical and unprecedented, we believe that much more money should be given to Hungarian families, not only in the form of tax incentives and a credit moratorium, because the credit moratorium only means that they will have to pay back later, there will be a longer term, which is useful and good initiative, and there should be no misunderstanding, but we still need more direct and direct support. Look at Britain, the United States, Germany, and they provide the families there with much easier and greater resources than the Hungarian government does, in a much simpler way, and not overcomplicated, that would certainly be more useful. So in Hungarian, more resources, simpler solutions, bigger-scale plans and measures are needed in terms of both the expansion of employment, family support and the strengthening of the economy. I always say that when you're talking about a family-friendly government, I can accept that if we add a sign that it's a family-friendly government, in the sense that your friends' families and acquaintances are being stuffed with money, apparently right now. Please, it is simply unthinkable that Lőrinc Mészáros will receive a dividend of HUF 11 billion and then receive a non-refundable grant from the Hungarian State immediately afterwards! Please, why doesn't it have enough national feelings, solidarity, Christian honor to tell you to listen, this year I won't take 11 billion, I will only push one, 10 back into my business, Hungarian employees, Hungarian companies, from national commitment? No. I'll take the 11 billion for my own family, and then I'll go to the state, and I'll need some help to give me some money to protect the Hungarian jobs! 17 billion forints! So, in Hungarian, I think that there is something to be finely coordinated here in terms of budget and political realities, as you said, Mr Group Leader, as we certainly need to take action on a larger scale when preparing for the epidemic. Although I would like to add that the news that I do not tell you that I only list negative things, which you can see, that the Hungarian capacity development has begun, that the logistical accumulation of these instruments has started, I admit frankly, I do not consider this unnecessary, even if many, even press organisations, experts question the need for this, I think that this is a correct step for the government. What I would like to talk about for a few sentences, and if we opened up this family support a little bit, from a slightly different perspective, I must say, indeed, as the group leader said, education, health care, patching up the social network, pensions should be spent much more on this budget. Mr. Secretary of State knows the numbers very well, it seems that for now the state spends more on its own operation in proportion than the previous one, because it is always mentioned in the last eight years and what was then. If we compare it to 2010, then the state has spent less in proportion to GDP, and now you are spending less in proportion to GDP on welfare expenditure. That is why we say that we should put this budget on its feet from the top, as you said, that reality should be taken into account, that it really should be done in accordance with our political principles, so that it can be as good and useful as possible for the Hungarian people, for the Hungarian families. Therefore, we say that the value choice that we propose would mean much more progress for Hungarian families, for Hungarian people, would be much more secure and would give us a greater opportunity to redesign Hungary, and that would, of course, require a budget for rebuilding instead of a budget for leaving the country. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2020-06-10-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-49	[[He's strapping up his microphone.]] I'm sorry, I was just given a different order. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, One of the reasons for the economic soaring in recent years has been the government's conscious and efficient promotion of exports and investments. Investment by foreign companies in Hungary plays an important role in technology transfer and creates high value-added jobs, which is clearly seen in the dynamic and unbroken growth of wages paid in these jobs in recent years. Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises receive powerful state aid to increase their exports, which presumably requires competitive products and services. So these public policies are not simply generating revenue and providing livelihoods for tens of thousands of people, but what is very important is also contributing to innovation. Last year's record-breaking investment rate, balanced expansion, and ongoing large-scale enlargements show that Hungary is an attractive investment destination, which has good potential to face the difficulties of the coronal virus epidemic. Last year, a total of HUF 13 400 billion was developed in Hungary, thanks to which, apart from Ireland, Hungary has the highest share of investments compared to GDP in the whole EU. If you look at the biggest ones, Mercedes 540, MOL 400, Samsung 390, and BMW are investing 320 billion HUF in the near future. After these investments have been made, they will also make a significant contribution to Hungarian exports. In the fact that these large companies, whose investments the whole world is competing for, have chosen Hungary, besides skilled labour and advanced infrastructure, they continue to play a significant role in the EU with the lowest rate of 9 percent corporate tax. As regards projects managed by the National Investment Agency, HIPA, a positive investment decision was made in 2019 for a record number of 101 projects. [[14.50]] The overall volume of these investments is EUR 5.3 billion and 13.5 thousand new jobs will be created in the coming years. The investment promotion target coordinated by HIPA will be included in the budget by an amount of HUF 80 billion compared to this year. In order to re-launch the economy, preserve the success of the export market and create new jobs instead of jobs eliminated by the virus, the government recently decided to launch a new export support and investment promotion programme. As part of this, it provides Hungarian companies with a reduced loan facility for investments and a 0.1 per cent loan for small businesses. A maximum of EUR 800 000 will be awarded for the fact that the number of employees will not be reduced. In addition, you can go to the "Renewal Loan" program! In addition to the various programmes of the Hungarian Development Bank, Hungarian companies have a total credit line of HUF 3000 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, We have an old debate with the left about financing unemployment or jobs. The Left proposes that the available resources be spent on maintaining unemployment, but we propose that jobs be preserved and created. Hungarian entrepreneurs also seem to think the same way, because up to now around 800 companies have submitted support requests for the investment promotion programme, worth nearly 380 billion forints, of which the government grants 150 billion forints. This means protecting and creating a total of 140,000 jobs. There's a good number of such companies in every county. These include, for example, the Zsámbék Medicontur of my constituency, which, as a registered manufacturer of implantable screens on the world market, gained considerable reputation in ophthalmology. The company employs specially trained professionals who are capable of continuous innovation that meets the highest requirements. Their products are currently being marketed in more than 60 countries with an ever-increasing market share. But I could also mention the new pápaty production base of the precision metalworking company Indprobágy in Biatorbágy, where they also won a tender under this programme. Medicontur and Indupro and similar companies use the period of crisis to become stronger and more competitive than ever before in this situation, for which the state provides support in various ways. Ladies and gentlemen, Export development and investment promotion are of particular importance in the re-launch of the economy and in the preservation of employment, which is why it is natural that the investment promotion target as well as cross-border economic development support will be included next year in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, rather than in the Economic Protection Fund. There is also the envelope for tied aid loans, which also serves to increase the export and improve the competitiveness of Hungarian companies. As before, next year's budget places great emphasis on export development and investment promotion, and in view of the successes of recent years, we have no reason to doubt that they will continue to be equally effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-10-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The government took very few aspects into account when planning the budget for 2021, leaving practically a budget of cowardice and weakness. He doesn't dare face the facts and leave a lot of people on the side of the road cowardly. Like the whole epidemic and emergency, the budget has become a means of petty political revenge. He did not learn from the fall of 2019, and he mistakenly thinks that he can extend his power by further hardening. To this end, the Orbán government plans to severely restrict the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities. All this at a time when local authorities took on an increased burden in the fight against the epidemic, providing immediate assistance to those in distress, shopping, delivering medicines to elderly residents, declaring a pay moratorium on the rental of their own business premises, providing financial support to those who lost their jobs, returning home from hospitals, giving care to relatives of returnees, and a day-to-day list of municipalities' sacrifice for the health and financial well-being of their citizens. Péter Niedermüller, Tamás Soproni fought day and night for the inhabitants of Elizabeth and Terézváros. What did the government give you in return? Nothing. Even less than that, because their existing income was cut short by the government. And if this was so well done, it came to mind why this withdrawal could not be continuous, not just for this year or next year. This draft budget also responded to this. The government wants to perpetuate the local government, bleed out the settlements and districts to the extreme. The government constantly claims that the municipalities must be in solidarity and contribute to the control of the epidemic. This lying argument is immediately exposed by two things. On the one hand, even in this difficult situation, several tens of billions of forints are being scattered to build football stadiums, to renovate church buildings, and on the other hand, they intend to maintain withdrawal from municipalities not only in this year of epidemic, but until 2024. There's money here, please, in the budget, only for the more important purposes the Fidesz people have to use it. This is the fattening of the oligarchs, and the price will be paid by the municipalities and the residents. In Teresa City... [[He's taking a moment's break and he's turning his notes.]] Pay up. I'm sorry. [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] He'd be so brave when he stood up for his own government and told the government to pay some money. [[I did it!]] [[I did it!]] But he won't do it! (Sándor Font: I did it!) What are these items? The car tax. The government would also take away the total amount of motor vehicle tax revenue that may be used by municipalities in 2021, while leaving the collection task and costs with them. Of the two districts that I represent in Budapest, the example of Erzsébetváros shows that, in addition to the already abstract HUF 110 million car tax, the district was deprived of an additional HUF 190 million in revenue by the government of parking fees and charges for the use of public space. In total, Erzsébetváros has lost some HUF 300 million in revenue due to direct government withdrawals, but the situation in Terézváros is similar. Solidarity contribution. While only HUF 43 billion has been earmarked for this item by 2020, by 2021 HUF 160 billion will be on this line. Budapest has to pay significantly more as a solidarity contribution. It has now become clear to everyone that the government plans not only to increase the contribution for one year, but also until 2024. This is completely unacceptable to the municipalities. In Erzsébetváros, the epidemic caused an additional expenditure of HUF 200 million, but this year's budget balance of the municipality is deteriorating by HUF 2.5 billion. Again, 2.5 billion forints. In Teresa City, Teresa City stands by you! The reimbursement of the costs of a corona virus emergency social programme requires HUF 300 million plus budget expenditure. In order for the municipalities to regain their real capacity, the government must immediately reimburse the exceptional expenditure incurred in the event of an epidemiological emergency, return abstract revenue resources, in particular the motor vehicle tax, ensure the proper management of the underfunded and/or wasteful state-reserved institutional system, since the municipalities have significant resources to assist such institutions operating in their territory, while not having any meaningful say in their operation. In addition to the withdrawal of funds from municipalities, it is also considered necessary to provide additional resources to carry out a number of tasks that have been urgent for years. [[15.00]] Without the need for completeness, we would like Fidesz representatives to support local governments in the following areas. Special attention should be paid to the anomalies of healthcare in the municipalities. In the government's draft budget for 2020, GP and GP are planning to provide on-call services to the same level, even though the last period has shown that the resources available are insufficient. I am also setting an example of the state of health in my constituency. For years, I have regularly initiated the reconstruction of Péterfy Hospital, which is also responsible for the care of the areas I represent. The management of the new municipality wrote a letter to Miklós Kásler almost immediately after the establishment and invited him to a hospital visit, since then there has been no meaningful response, the minister does not dare to go to a state-owned institution. What, though, can we expect from a wallet manager who, by performing some political task, forgets that he has ever worked as a doctor and is able to make such a statement that he believes that there is no consequence of delayed breast cancer screening? But let's go back to Péterfy Hospital, which would require 25 billion forints to be modernised, while buying modern medical instruments worth 8 billion forints would also be essential for the people living here. This is particularly justified by the fact that Péterfy Hospital was one of the key defences during the outbreak, and that patients with crown viruses were shipped there nationwide. In Terézváros and Erzsébetváros 600-600 million HUF is also required for the development of home and pediatric clinics. The coronal virus epidemic has shown that the country has a huge digital gap between children. Students can join any digital education from home if they have an appropriate computer in addition to the Internet. In this sense, we urge the government to put at least one laptop in each disadvantaged family to assist in its operation, the learning of children. After the epidemic, all children should be given equal access to information on the Internet, and therefore we recommend that all households in which a school-age child lives and whose social situation justifies it should receive state-supported preferential internet access. In Terézváros and Erzsébetváros, the development of digital classrooms and the creation of conditions for distance learning require an additional HUF 300-300 million from the budget. We also recommend that the government allocate 500 million forints of resources for the production of digital teaching materials as well as for the creation of a databank where digital teaching materials can be stored in one place and accessible to all, the latter should be helped by the government for a separate HUF 300 million. We have already indicated the unsustainable state that the government provides much more support for students in church schools than for KLIK students. Our position is that all children in education should be equal. Nevertheless, every year there is an increase in the gap between the funding of church and state-owned schools. Therefore, we recommend that the state spend as much money on all KLIK students to publish things as a student in a church school. It is well known that due to the ragweed in Hungary there are hundreds of thousands of allergies. In previous years, I have repeatedly advocated an increase in the effectiveness of the control of raggrass, so far useless. I would also suggest that you consider raising the budget support for the government's defence against raggrass by HUF 5 billion. The state will save much more if it is finally willing to do real work in the field of ragweed control. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Renovation of condominiums. I consider it very, very important to support by tender the façade and roof structure of the condominiums in Erzsébetváros and Terézváros, which I represent. We recommend that the government not force the withdrawal of funds from local governments, but support the preservation and renovation of buildings in downtown over a hundred years. The communities of the condominiums cannot renovate their houses on their own, and they need outside help to do so. Both the municipality of Erzsébetváros and the municipality of Terézváros provide this source, the government is not available with any domestic resources. We ask the government to provide HUF 3-3 billion in the budget for the renovation of the condominium for Erzsébetváros and Terézváros, as well as other districts in Budapest. In the area of Elizabeth and Terézváros the so-called party district was formed. Many people do not really like that word, for it is a kind of qualification, and it has often created unbearable living conditions for residents. To alleviate this, the government has not taken any measures so far, despite the fact that many, many billions of forints of extra revenue from the party district. The Democratic Coalition has already initiated several times, and we would like to take the initiative now to return this to the residents. To achieve this goal, Erzsébetváros and Terézváros will also have a budget of HUF 1 billion a year to cover paid taxes. Plus, the government should allocate HUF 100-100 million to the establishment of a tourist information centre in the two districts, where visitors can be helped to navigate. We also ask the government to allocate additional resources during the tourist season to create an increased police presence. The subterranean assembly and the track itself are so outdated that renovation is essential, therefore representatives of the municipality of Terézváros will initiate funding of approximately HUF 10 billion in the budget for this purpose. In order to make this area more livable, it would be necessary to build underground garages, so you need government help in underground garage financing, as you have stripped down the municipality. In Erzsébetváros it would be HUF 5 billion to support two underground garages, in Terézváros to support an underground garage of HUF 2.5 billion. We ask you to support the fact that as many people as possible can ride their bikes in Budapest, and this can be successful if, for example, smaller underground garages are provided throughout the Nagykörút, then parking could be stopped and the bicycle lane could be solved at the place of the current parking zone. It is a fundamental human right to ensure decent housing, which is why we recommend that the government allocate HUF 1-1 billion to each district for a social housing programme. The Podmaniczky rust zone behind the Western Railway Station must be repaired. The area in question is in poor condition, its renovation would improve much in the city of Terézváros and Budapest. They've talked a lot about the project "Liget 2" which has died 42 times since then, but you keep talking about such projects. The preparation of the renovation itself would cost HUF 100 billion, but there is also a need for land change and public utility development in the area. We recommend that the government allocate 10 billion forints in the central budget. In Terézváros and Erzsébetváros it is essential to renovate the state-owned educational institutions of the two districts. We ask the government to consider modernising them and to allocate resources to them. In the building of the Terézváros Family and Child Welfare Centre, more and more activities were available, as a result of which the Centre outgrown its building. The enlargement has become necessary, and they want to make it upstairs. We recommend that the government allocate HUF 200 million to the municipality of Terézváros for this purpose. There is a great shortage of playgrounds for children with disabilities in Budapest. The government should separate 300-300 million HUF for the construction of a playground in Terézváros and Erzsébetváros, which can also be used by disabled children, and a multifunctional movement centre can also be established in the two districts to help the rehabilitation of children with disabilities. The government, when renovating the Opera House, forgot that the renovation of the building cannot be complete if the state of the surrounding public areas is neglected, so the municipality of Terézváros considers it necessary to renovate the surrounding public areas in addition to the Opera House, for which the government should allocate an appropriate budget. The renovation of the Hunyadi tér market hall from the design to the completion of the complete renovation raises a very significant demand for funds from the Terézváros municipality, so we would ask for a change in the government budget for the complete renovation of the Hunyadi tér market hall. Running the walls of the houses in Terézváros and Erzsébetváros with plants can contribute to the greening of the district, which significantly improves the comfort of both the people living here and the visitors, and the programme's funding needs are HUF 300 million. Annex VI is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. district street wooding is often blocked by public utilities, as wooding is in contact with overhead lines, wires in the ground and canals. It takes 500 million extra resources to solve this. At Budapest level, the government should provide a HUF 2 billion tender fund for community gardens, and we also recommend that all environmental investments be placed in the 5 percent VAT area. [[15.10]] There are numerous buildings in Terézváros and Erzsébetváros that are protected by monuments or local protection. The thermal insulation of these buildings is difficult to resolve so that the buildings do not lose their historic character, but in today's extreme weather conditions adequate thermal insulation is essential, so we recommend that the government allocate a special amount in the budget to these houses under historic protection or local protection. I would like to ask for the support of my fellow Members for the benefit of residents in Terézváros and Erzsébetváros. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-06-10-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. Mr András Aradszki, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, is coming to comment.
u2020-06-10-53	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T-10710. During today's debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2021, we can certainly stress that every such draft budget law has its own uniqueness, its own self-defined nature, which can generally be derived from the economic events of the previous year. It is enough to think that ten years ago, when the 2010 budget was put into law, the consequences of the 2008 economic crisis and the left-wing governance between 2002 and 2009 had to be dealt with in the 2010 budget, orthodoxly, of course, according to the needs of the IMF, the World Bank, the ECB, the European Central Bank and the European Commission, i.e. by austerity, which meant nothing more than real income reductions, high inflation, significant budget deficits, low economic growth, the state, local governments and the Hungarian population are not in debt in this area. In 2010, honourable Members, we changed this orthodox, neo-bal and liberal economic policy and the budget for it. The point of the change was that although it was unorthodox, we have now laid the foundations for tax and budgetary conditionality supporting work as a value, including strengthening the essential functions of the pension system. This economic policy has helped not only to overcome the crisis, but also to bring about the preconditions for lasting growth. Dear House, Ten years have passed since then, and if we were to look at the good economic background of the submitted draft law on the central budget for 2020 with the 2019 economic results, then we would see that the results of 2019 provided a sound, normal basis for the fulfilment of the Hungarian economy and the state budget. In 2019 we left behind 4.9 per cent economic growth, 3.4 per cent inflation, a budget deficit of around 2 per cent, 3.6 per cent unemployment, 11.4 per cent average wage growth and 70.3 per cent employment. Families' support for the implementation of the Family Protection Action Plan has increased significantly. Based on this, it was possible to base the year 2020 on the traditional instruments of employment, wage-enhancing, applied over the past ten years, as we have used to in recent years. But that's not the case right now. Now the central budget should not be prepared, negotiated and adopted in the usual manner, and I will even go on and do it. We need new, innovative solutions adapted to the target once again, so that the country can solve the difficulties and tasks of 2021 and achieve its goals. This year, a global coronal virus outbreak hit our country in March. In the epidemiological situation, the country has tested well, and the spread of the epidemic has been kept to a limited level, which has necessarily resulted in a decline in the economy not only at our place but also at global level. It is therefore important to stress that, on the basis of this fact situation, the bill that is now being tabled correctly defines the value and priorities of the budget proposal. This is nothing more than that behind us with good economic performance in 2019, on the basis of which the budget must at the same time ensure the maintenance of the epidemiological preparedness and the budgetary coverage of the economy, which is in a difficult situation by the epidemic. The budget will need resources for Hungary's biggest programme of economic protection and its continuation in 2021, because this is what it takes to find our way back to the major growth path in 2021. However, these objectives should not undermine the support of children and families raising children, which should also be fully ensured by the 2021 budget. Support for childbearing is effective if Hungarian young people, the founders of the family, can count on it in the longer term, if they can count on the support systems that we have introduced, or perhaps even better, in the longer term, even for a half-life. I believe that it is therefore very important to maintain the process, the state of Hungary's support for families is one of the highest percentage of GDP in all Europe, which is 4.5 percent of GDP, which represents nearly HUF 2300 billion for the benefit of Hungarian families. This includes support for the founding of family homes and, of course, includes a system of family tax relief, which ensures the cost of raising children in a differentiated but effective way, ensuring that children's commitment does not also mean that poverty is committed. The bill before us expects that, following the economic halt in 2020, the performance of the Hungarian economy will be increased by about 4.8 percent in 2021, and the Hungarian economy will grow by about 30 percent compared to 2010. The deficit in the budget and the public debt will be higher than previously planned in 2020, but according to the proposal submitted by the end of 2021, public debt is expected to fall from 72.6 per cent of GDP by the end of 2020, while the general government deficit will not exceed 3 per cent of GDP next year, as in recent years. I must add that I am thinking of healthcare, education and defence in all sectors that serve the lives of Hungarian people, the stability and economic stability of Hungary, only higher expenditure will be incurred in 2021 as planned. For example, in 2021 there will be HUF 2115 billion available for health purposes, which is HUF 156 billion more than the funds provided this year. Therefore, despite the fact that we are in a difficult situation now, the 2021 budget has taken on an optimistic, not restrictive, not restrictive image, but continues to provide the resources needed to carry out the basic tasks. [[15.20]] I must stress in particular that the most important item here is XXI. In the twenties of the century, the financing of the area of order and defence. This is because it can be seen that both the migration situation and the management of the defence instruments associated with it require increased efforts and greater efforts to improve defence, even because, as a member of the Atlantic Alliance, we are committed to contributing to the common military and defence policy with the right quality. I think, House, that, in view of all this, it is generally possible to say that the numbers of the draft budget are encouraging, and hope that, if this is achieved by various expert forums, the Hungarian economy will not fall back in 2021, but will be able to return to the growth path of 2019, during which period it was the fourth or third most developing economy in Europe. In addition, we must add that, for example, according to Euronews' right-wing writings, one of the greatest reductions in the number of poor people in our country has been made. So today, we are no longer among the EU Member States, among the five Member States where people are most at risk of returning to poverty or where an outbreak of poverty is the most impossible for them. Surprisingly, these countries include such as Greece, Spain, Italy, and, if I recall correctly, Lithuania. So there is no Hungary among them. This is fundamentally contrary to the opposition scenarios, the opposition Tirads, because in this respect Hungary has been able to deliver good performance through the European Union in the last three to four years, which, of course, needed economic growth, social sensitivity, strengthening the world of work, as I said, was 70.3% of the employment rate in 2019, which is a worthy proof that if there is work, everything is there, and if everything is, we can give people jobs, it is the most important instrument, the most important condition for combating poverty. I say this despite the fact that we all know that it is very important for us to help the society that is falling apart with catching up programmes so that they too can get out of the bondage of poverty. I think it is important to mention that, if there has been a serious debate on climate protection in recent years, how is the proposed budget proposal for climate protection, energy. It can be said that, in the course of the activities of the Hungarian government so far, if we look at the events from 2010, in the CO2-free transition of climate protection and energy, the Parliament has adopted the second version of the national climate strategy and we have also adopted the Climate Protection Act over the past period. However, it is important to highlight how these climate protection and energy targets are reflected in the budget proposal. It should be added that the key policy objectives of this climate protection, energy and transport are energy efficiency, promotion of energy saving, energy Racialisation, climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector and increasing the share of renewable energy sources, encouraging the use of energy innovation and the potential for economic development linked to climate change. In order to achieve all of this, the budget of the Energy and Climate Modernisation System financed by the objectives will be HUF 35 billion in expenditure in 2021. This seems to be a small amount, but, as has been said in the debate of the Act on Climate Protection, both by the government and by the pro-government representatives, the fight against climate change is not primarily a matter of the government, but we need to find an alliance in the direction of business organisations, civil society and citizens, and we need to put farming organisations in a position to make the right contribution to climate protection objectives both financially and technologically. If we can finance these programmes from these HUF 35 billion 300 million, then we can take a big step in the area of climate protection. I consider it important that, in 2021, projects and programmes that may be financed under the Modernisation Fund in particular will be partly pre-financing, and will contribute to the achievement of the objective of the national energy strategy. Accordingly, the share of renewable energy consumption in addition to gross final energy consumption will increase by at least 21 percent; domestic built-in photovoltaic capacity will exceed 6,000 megawatts by 2030 and close to 12,000 megawatts by 2040; greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 40 percent compared to 1990, and final energy consumption should not exceed 785 petajoule levels in 2030. These are important steps, because, depending on this, we can achieve that carbon-neutral domestic electricity generation will grow to 90 percent by 2030, to which, if we complement investments related to the electricity system, to increase flexibility, to install about one million smart meters, we can say that the climate policy, climate protection and energy policy objectives that we have set here in the debate on the Climate Protection Act and the Act itself will be able to achieve that, and the draft budget 2021 will provide a good basis for this. Now all we need to do is quote that we can take these steps effectively and effectively, in line with energy and climate policy objectives. I believe that the government is able to do so, and that there will be no obstacle to the budget being supported in this respect by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association or fractions. I believe that, of course, there are other items that are related to energy policy, but the importance of these, although environmentally undisputed, is not equal to the amounts previously stated and presented, but I am thinking of the comfort of the people living there, the healing of landscape wounds here, to recultivate the consequences of uranium mining, the site of Karolina, all of which are covered in the budget, the important part of which is that what has been left in the landscape damage of mining as an economic activity, we will be able to gradually put in a position, in accordance with European Union standards and in accordance with our intentions, to significantly improve the living conditions of those living there, and to create community living spaces in these areas, of course, together with water and soil damage. [[15.30]] I think it is important that I speak one paragraph because there have been quite a number of negative comments from the left on the financing of municipalities. Most of the time, all left-wing participants, whether Jobbik or DK, or Dialogue, have been united. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't make me laugh! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are confused with reading!]] , that in 2021 the government seeks to bleed out the municipalities. Compared to this, the following are included in the proposal. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Significantly more budgetary resources will be allocated to local authorities in 2021. Instead of this year's source of approximately HUF 739 billion, they will be able to farm from some HUF 857 billion. According to the proposal, instead of HUF 173 billion, there are 264 billion in the draft budget to support the operation of local authorities in general. In support of some of the public education tasks of local authorities, this year's nearly 191 billion is already a raised amount, and this has also ensured quality wage improvements for kindergarten women and day care workers from the beginning of this year, so it will be possible to spend some 213 billion forints instead of 191 billion forints to support individual public education tasks. The same increase applies to children's meals at a similar rate. Overall, it can be said that the government not only bleeds out the municipalities, but puts them in a much more favourable, more dynamic position. Why do I say that? It can be seen from what he said that the government has generously provided operating costs for the municipalities. To mention specifics, for example, in 2020 but the same will apply to 21, if we look at the fact data, in the centre of my constituency, the budget is worth HUF 51 billion, of which the state provides 46 billion. So, if you look at these proportions, it's brave enough to say that the government wants to bleed out the municipalities. The reason why this is interesting is because Érd is an opposition-led municipality. So it's not about that, but it's about working with the municipalities, too. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Motor vehicle tax.]] and must be managed in such a way that they can ensure compliance with compulsory care through increased state standards. I think that drawing from this thing is that the government is selective and supports and blackmails the local governments in different ways, it's pretty thick, it's pretty thick, it doesn't correspond to reality. One more thing to prove lifelike is why this is so. Several times, it has been said here on several occasions that the protection against the corona virus has bled out the municipalities. I'm telling you, the Ordnance budget is HUF 51 billion, according to our latest knowledge, by the end of May, this budget was spent around HUF 20 million on defense against the Crown Virus in the county of Érd. So, if that's all there is to it, then it's kind of weird to argue that this situation, the coronal virus situation, has now bled out the municipalities. Another question is what will be in 2021. In 21 they are expected to be smarter and more efficient, but there is no danger that the compulsory tasks of the municipalities will not be threatened because of the increase in the amounts allocated to the above-mentioned mandatory tasks. It is also certain that if they do not have any money left for the development, given that their business tax base will be reduced, the government will grant permission to take credit, which will be accepted or repaid here at the end of the year. In this respect, therefore, this transitional period, which is visible between the 2020 and the 2021 economic situation, is a very significant and noticeable economic downturn in 2020, and, as the draft budget law states, that in 2021 we can almost reach the level of growth in which we were in 2019, then the municipalities should be able to manage this transition period, so they should be able to manage it, regardless of party affiliation. The other question, of course, is that if there is an intention to do so, then this must be done. And a personal or not personal, I just heard from hearing that the new leadership, so some of the opposition mayors and the city leadership consider the city a good party and not a political task or commitment; but it's just a personal comment, please don't take it personally. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] I believe that, in summing up all of this, the draft central budget for 2021 tackles this difficult situation with sufficient sensitivity and sufficient dynamics, by special means, the financial conditions for relaunching the economy have already been mentioned by those before me in the programmes of the Hungarian National Bank, which give a legitimate hope that this economic crisis will survive in 2021 on the basis of conservative and moderate estimates, and if it can be survived, both the large public finances and the conditions for the existence of municipalities will be guaranteed. As a result, I have nothing else to say, for my part, and I am sure that on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we will support this bill in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-54	Thank you, Congressman András Aradski. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, from among the speakers who have been announced, "May Other be Politics."
u2020-06-10-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, when the parliamentary debate of the budget comes, we fail to say that the country's budget is not a number war when everyone tries to split as much as possible into things that matter to you. It's a lot more than that. The budget is an indicator of the ability of a responsible government to draw up a proposal for the use of public money to ensure the well-being of society as a whole, while ensuring its environmental and economic conditions in the spirit of sustainability. This is not a simple task, given the diverse needs, limited resources and the need to coordinate short- and long-term interests. Therefore, our main benchmark should be a common and consistent set of values, building priorities into consensus and coordinating public policies. The good thing is that the use of resources will help us achieve a common target system when the aim is to harmonise social, environmental and economic aspects, and to establish our future by protecting the values of this. If we look at the consequences of the past ten years' governance of the Orbán government, we can see what this budget shows: social fragmentation, disregarding the welfare of the majority, apart from a narrow elite, when, beyond wealth, rights and human dignity are being undermined. The total vulnerability of the economy as a whole, including Russian buddies affecting the strategic energy sector. The use, destruction of natural resources, the privateization of our remaining values by ignoring the common good completely. And here we can talk about the specific privatisation of national land assets, the attempts to rob national strategic water resources, the einstand of Lake Balaton, and the attempt to stomp on the conditions of local communities and local government, civil society. All of this separates me from the 21st century. From responding to the real challenges of the 20th century, from the common aspirations of the world and the EU, and even from meaningful cooperation in the common affairs of the Carpathian Basin. The LMP has been saying this for a long time, but the epidemic has also shown that we cannot continue where we left off before the virus, and that green rotation and reconstruction are needed in 2021, green reconstruction. But let us look at this in the light of the government's budget proposal for 2021 from the perspective of sustainability and environmental issues. It is unacceptable for the government to submit a budget proposal which is clearly opaque. For years, the plan and implementation have been far from a match. The budgetary proposals do not, by any chance, indicate in a uniform structure what the previous year, the e-directions and the implementation of the previous years have been. [[15.40]] The headings of chapter appropriations are constantly merged, carried between wallets, and the budget lines allocated to the substantive objectives of domestic and EU grants are covered by a thick cloud. There is no chance that the lines corresponding to the implementation of the objectives of the plans, strategies and programmes adopted by the government and Parliament will appear in the budget, i.e. the government will use these plans and programmes as sets. I can mention the national environmental programme, the NÉS, the biodiversity strategy or even the Kvassay Jenő plan. There is a fundamental deficiency in the implementation of our rights under the Fundamental Law to a healthy environment and the protection of natural resources in the budget. He speaks for himself, ladies and gentlemen, that in the textual parts of the 2021 budget, in his justifications, the concept of "environment" does not appear. This draft is completely incomplete in order to give voters, stakeholders, a response to what will be done to the remediation of pollution as a ticking chemical bomb, the removal of asbestos in buildings requiring human lives, the substantial implementation of the developed national air load reduction programme but neutered by the government, the preparation of environmental health, the management of new risks as a result of climate change, or the mitigation of unforeseen weather situations, when, in addition to their own failure, thousands may remain without cover. Or what about adapting agriculture and forestry, soil protection, when it is known precisely that the present production structure of Hungarian agriculture is unsustainable? Our existing forests are dying, let alone the possibility of installing new ones due to water scarcity, and our production areas are losing their productive capacity year after year due to bad management. Or what about the water retention projects in the hills and plains, instead of which the government is only trying to meet the obsolete and waste watering needs of the oligarchs in a way that violates the public interest? Where is the promotion of sustainable landscape management delayed? How will our settlements be livable if the government takes us away rather than gives us a chance to cope with the consequences of climate change, and so that we do not lose more relatives than the victims of the present epidemic, although government statistics have kept quiet, for example, because of unmanageable and lasting heat waves? It must be said, seeing the budget, that the city and the countryside can finally unite after decades of fabricated and meaningless confrontation, because they are both hit by government budgetary policy. But the weak point of the draft is not only what it does not provide resources to, but also to whom and what it gives them, sometimes for purposes contrary to sustainability. The government does not recognise the fact that our natural resources, our values, ecosystem services are limited and that the government's conscious and faulty omissions and even its actions aimed at the immediate exploitation of our environment lead to irreversible environmental changes in the short and long term. Now that we are debating Hungary's budget for 2021 here in Parliament, we see once again that the government does not understand, does not feel the gravity of climate change. It must be done, but it can be said in summary that there is hardly any element in the budget presented that would really help to curb climate change, adapt to climate change, which would serve environmental protection, in a broader sense, so that we can live in a healthy environment, and that our children and grandchildren can enjoy it. According to the LMP, there is a clear need for greening. For the 2021 budget, the LMP will present 21 amendments aimed at keeping the country viable, preserving our forests, good quality agricultural land, our waters, our natural values and biodiversity as a whole. I would like to highlight some of the proposals we have tabled, some of the most important areas. Eight out of ten apartments in Hungary do not meet the modern building energy requirements. We are convinced that in the area of energy efficiency we need to focus on residential building insulation, where the easiest savings can be achieved. A complex building energy renovation program is needed with a HUF 300 billion frame per year. With complete renovation, drastic energy savings of up to 85% can be achieved. That would be the real reduction in the rent. We also need budgetary resources for climate adaptation, not just keeping our hands on the European Union. I think that everyone in Hungary now knows that climate change is seriously affecting our country, especially agriculture, but also the local authorities' climate protection tasks must be supported. The government has neglected it for years, but resources must be allocated to the national environmental remediation programme, and something needs to be done about it, as the high-risk pollution detected each year causes tens of thousands of deaths and diseases, pollution and endangerment of our soil and water resources. In order to reduce the impact of climate change, domestic forests must also be protected. In indigenous forests in Hungary, farm management must be stopped; first in nature conservation Natura 2000 areas, then gradually in all public-owned forests. And what I would also like to point out is that in order to reduce air pollution, we are also presenting an amendment to measures against PM10 dust and other measures, as particulate matter can be shown to cause a death of a thousand per year and a disease of 100 000 per cent. More resources are needed to deal with this problem. What we're seeing is the government's been trying to make you think it's green and green lately. I think it would be a bit of a proof of your greening if you were to support the proposed amendment to the LMP in order to protect the environment and nature. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-10-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Székely.
u2020-06-10-57	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Yesterday he told me, with a cynical half-smile in the Economic Committee, that the next Deputy of the Hungarian National Bank was probably when I asked him what he thought 2.1 inflation was possible, while the Hungarian people found that the price of the goods purchased by them is up from month to month up to 10-20 percent or even 25 percent, that people misinterpret the inflation data, and here it is a question of many products that are put into the inflation basket, which includes the refrigerator, which is bought only every ten years, and really rarely the price or slower and added similar products; once again, with such a cynical semi-smile on his mouth. Now it's about as cynical and that's how serious you can take it when you say that in Hungary, wages are fantastically good, everything is fine and rising. It calculates wages by not counting in the first place the wages of 1.6 million people, who are typically small earners, so the average of the wages of the remaining workers is calculated as a very serious distortion. Well, that's how we have a gross average salary of 400,000 forints, and that's 2 percent inflation in the country. Well, you don't. Instead, there are migrations, Hungarians working in two or three workplaces, the black economy and the grey economy are flourishing, children are not born, and the country is empty; not Budapest or the large cities in Western Hungary, but the small settlements, the villages which are supposed to be so important to you, but unfortunately there are no shops there, and only the elderly remain, and everyone else is on the run. The situation created by Covid would have been an excellent opportunity for Fidesz to change his relationship with the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people, to help people, small businesses, to tax, say, the multinationals, the dividend tax a little more. What happened to that? The Hungarian banking system was taxed by HUF 55 billion, which produces 600-700 billion a year, so that Hungarian employees will return it to the Hungarian banking system in five years' time, but not the same, but much more. [[15.50]] The Hungarian government also taxed multinational companies either Hungarians or foreigners in such a way that they could easily transfer them to the Hungarian population, so they practically raised VAT. Unfortunately, this budget also suggests that everything stays the same. He supports the rich and the capitalists, and Viktor Orbán wants to make his family a billionaire in a broad sense, and everyone else can work until they're exhausted for money or go wherever they want. And that's what you call a good economy and good numbers. Perhaps, but unfortunately, these sentences do not help Hungarian workers at all. The Yes Solidarity Movement was created to eliminate the social crisis caused by you and your Robbery Capitalist attitude. Therefore, I suggest that we raise the minimum wage to HUF 200,000, and the family allowance to three times, 37 500. If they say that these numbers are not included in the budget, then my answer is that these numbers are included in the Hungarian budget, they should only be a little brave and not eviscerate the Hungarian people, but rather those multinational companies or the banking system a little bit further and put the interests of Hungarian people first, the interests of Hungarian payments. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-10-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be two minutes; first, MEP László Varju, DK.
u2020-06-10-59	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Now is actually the first opportunity to respond to what we have heard so far, in terms of what the Secretary of State said a few minutes ago or perhaps an hour ago. The Secretary of State has shown for a long time how much more money has actually been paid compared to 2010; how much more money there is now for a section, be it health, education, and list them. I highly recommend to Mr Secretary of State that he compare it not with 2010, but with 2000 or 1990, and then we could say 10 times the number. So to be honest, this nonsense, to be honest, is a... so it's hard to classify, and I don't want to hurt the Secretary of State for trying to do something so pointless, and I'm surprised that he's doing it. That's because I'd like to confront you with a simple number. Here's the budget you submitted. The revenue this year is HUF 21 882 billion. Last year, revenues of HUF 21 424 billion were estimated. The difference between the two is HUF 367 billion, less than 2 percent. You are planning at least 3 percent inflation this year, but otherwise, if I look at the MNB forecast, you would have to expect more than that, which means that 750 billion HUF is missing from this budget. Compared to that, you claim to be spending more on everything. Dear Secretary of State, Do not try this deception, because it is indeed the case that this is the big scam, the presentation of cowardice, that they are unable, on the one hand, and do not want to face the real problems. Thank you.
u2020-06-10-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2020-06-10-61	Mr President, Dear House, On the issue of housing, one of my pro-government fellow Members cannot be compared to the one on the left: with extreme left-wing rhetoric, he introduced a chemically pure neoliberal model. It is a shame, it is a shame that this can happen, because when it comes to how young people can get home in Hungary, the pro-government people always say that they want to give the young to property rather than to rent. Every sane person wants every Hungarian youth to have their own family house or apartment. But this is not the Hungarian reality! And the reason why you could be called neoliberal is because you don't have a message. They do not have any program for young people who have been forced to rent, nor can they start their own lives without financial resources. They point to the CSOK, which is, by the way, an eligible scheme. I myself have put forward improvements and supported the whole package. However, this is typically available from the upper middle class to the full range of support. You do not send messages to people who live in apartments, while the average rent in Budapest is 160 thousand. Hungarian wages and salaries did not follow the exploding increase in prices, with which the Government of Hungary cannot and does not want to do anything. Meanwhile, the state leg of housing savings has been removed, and 46 percent of domestic tenants are in a position to spend at least 40 percent of their income exclusively on housing. Secretary of State, what is your message to hundreds of thousands of Hungarians? The management of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank recommends the completion of a comprehensive rental program. I have brought here a whole concept with the title "Our Castle" programme, which could bring a mass of newly built apartments into the market, thus giving tenants ownership after 6-8 years of peaceful coexistence at cost. So there is a solution. Where's the government, Mr. Secretary? Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-10-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The speakers will be announced; first, Mr Robert Balázs Simon, Fidesz.
u2020-06-10-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As one of the Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Culture, I would basically like to look at three areas in a little more detail from next year's budget. This is vocational training, adult education and finally sport. I think we all agree that the primary objective of the national economy is to further increase employment and the efficiency of skilled workers in order to improve the performance of the economy. This is why it is important to broaden the training and re-training supply of vocational training centres, to adapt them to current labour needs, to maintain their training tasks, and to expand them in line with the 4.0 strategy adopted in 2019. The strategy has set out the professional lines to be followed and the results to be achieved in the ten priority areas of development to ensure competitiveness, sustainability and professional progress in vocational training. Let's look at it in a little bit more detail. Expenditure related to the maintenance and operation of vocational training centres are included in the chapter of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. The budget for the training centres for 2021 can amount to HUF 141.9 bn and its revenue to HUF 2.7 bn and thus to a total of HUF 144.6 bn of expenditure. State Vocational Training Institution is the 26th Vocational Training Act. In principle, it may function as part of a vocational training centre established by the Minister for Vocational Training on behalf of the State. Currently there are one, two or three vocational training centres per county in Hungary, four in Budapest and forty in total nationwide. In the 2019-20 academic year, the number of students there exceeded 200,000. In the course of the 2021 budget year and in subsequent academic years, changes to the vocational training system will result in a further increase in the number of VET participants. Overall, the planned staff size of vocational training centres will increase to 28 876 persons by 2021 as a result of the increase in tasks resulting from the strategy. The government shall provide the source of the planned wage increase from 1 July 2020. A survey on stakeholders is under way to implement the wage development of trainers and other staff in vocational training as from 1 July 2020. The following is expenditure relating to the operation of the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office. The National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office's budget for 2021 is HUF 1.9 billion, and its planned revenue can amount to HUF 311 million and thus to a total of HUF 2.2 billion in expenditure. The total number of posts of the NSZFH for 2021 is 163 posts, this is the so-called base number and has 217 centralised posts. [[16.00]] The following is what I would like to talk about briefly, which is in the Economic Protection Fund chapter, and this is nothing more than the contribution to vocational training. With regard to the VET contribution, those obliged to contribute may continue to choose the form of fulfilment of their obligation. The VET contribution shall be based on the basis of a social contribution tax on the person liable for the VET contribution. The level of the obligation remains 1.5 per cent. The revenue from the VET contribution is planned to be HUF 100.5 billion in 2021. The title of the Employment Fund for the Protection of Economics, vocational training and support for adults. The planned budget for 2021 was set at HUF 25 billion, which corresponds to the expenditure allocation for 2020. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Additional funding for the free training of public vocational training institutions under the Act on Vocational Training is HUF 5.8 billion in the budget for the year 2021. This amount ensures the stable financing of the provision of public tasks under the law of vocational training centres and other public vocational training institutions, not in the daytime system, for the first and second professions and for the acquisition of a professional qualification, equivalent to the concept of adult education. It is to be appreciated that the draft continues to prioritise the expansion of professional and professional qualifications and its state-supported potential. It is expected that tens of thousands of people will be trained in vocational training centres and other state vocational training institutions in this form as well in 2021. And as I said at the beginning of my speech, I would like to add a few more thoughts on the budget for the sport sector. In addition to government measures to improve the effectiveness of competition sport in the draft budget for next year, the expansion of the social base of sport will also play a key role. Strategic tasks include: table tennis, athletics, wrestling, rowing, judo, kayak-kenu, karate, bike, skating, boxing, pentathlon, sport shooting, tennis, gymnastics, swimming and fencing, as well as supporting the strategic and operational tasks of the major sports associations in Budapest. The budget provides HUF 11.9 billion in support of the tasks related to the implementation of the sports development concepts, which will restore funding to the 2019 base. It is good news that, thanks to the development programme, the sports concerned have increased both in the combined number of adult and replacement athletes, both in the number of coaches and in the number of member organisations. In addition, sports not included in the main sports disciplines, but important from a sports point of view such as baseball, softball, diving, curling, golf, skateboard, lawnball, wave riding, archery, kickboxing, horse sports, diving, rugby, ski, snowboarding, sports climbing, weight lifting, synchronizing, surfing, taekwondo, dance sport, badminton, triathlon, support for additional tasks and development of sailing. The talented program of so-called emerging sports serves to develop innovative sports that are popular among society. With the introduction of the latter programme, the entire national sports fraternity level has been covered, together with the flagship and catch-up sports. The development of a sports facility is an important area in which the implementation of the 2021 sport facility development tasks adopted by the government, based on and continuing the strategy for the development of a sport facility for the period 2014-2020, is designed as an objective. In particular, the quality of the outstanding central facilities can be increased, and regional sports centres as methodological centres will be developed. Developments planned by the major sports disciplines and the sports associations in the capital, such as the development of facilities related to the host of the 2022 handball European Championship, the development of the Defence Sports Centres, the development of property for sport purposes under the., Modern Cities, and other unique development of sports facilities supported by the government, are a key task. In addition, it is also essential to develop sports methodological and training centres and replacement bases, which are also suitable to meet the needs of several sports. In order to recognise sports results, sports activities, sports performances, the budget provides HUF 9.8 billion, which includes, on the one hand, the recognition of the effective performance of sport, and, on the other hand, the Olympic annuity and the National Athlete. The Aladár Gerevich Sports Scholar Scholar Scholar Gerevich Scholar Scholarship, the high-level coaching program, the life-long program of the re-trainers and the scholarship of the Hungarian Sports Stars will be used to provide the background necessary for effective performance, direct financial support for the athletes and sports professionals. Under the Government Decree on the state grant of certain outstanding sports results, athletes who reach 1-8th place in and between sports world competitions and trainers, educators and sports professionals involved in their training will receive state rewards, as well as medalists and trainers and athletes who prepare them at European and World Championships. The Olympic annuity, as well as the Annuity of the National Athlete, serves to appreciate the tens of years of high quality, outstanding activity and life course of the rightholder. I would like to point out, as a positive point, that the amount available for the Olympic preparation and the support available in the field of sport for people with disabilities are also the same as in 2020. According to the government decision, the budget provides HUF 38.1 million for the quality development of the Hungarian university-college national championship. Supporting sports academys. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: In the case of handball, basketball and football sports, a state-renowned sports academy support system has been established to provide single channel direct support to sports organisations with which the Minister of Human Resources has concluded a four-year framework agreement and has a sports academy qualification. The framework agreement sets out the tasks to be performed by publicly recognised academies, which will make the long-term training work of the sports concerned even more effective, and which will allow state-approved academies to be supported. Currently, a total of 20 state-renowned sports academys have a framework agreement and a sports academy state rating. The amount included in the bill is HUF 17.8 billion at the level of total appropriations. Support for domestic-organized sporting events. In the 2021 draft, budget support for high-level sports events in Hungary is a priority, which, in addition to its sports and diplomatic achievements, also has a significant positive impact on society as a result of the promotion of sports, the creation of role models and the dissemination of volunteering. [[16.10]] In 2021 there is a trend towards an increase in the number of international sporting events organised in Hungary, which is rooted in the structural change in the competition calendar next year, as well as the restructuring of international sporting events and the support system for international conferences and congresses. Under a government decision of 2020, the Budapest Development Centre appoints and is responsible for the tender and organisation of international sporting events and the provision of related grants. Under the Government Decision establishing the Budapest Development Center, the government is responsible for the application and organisation of all national events of international importance, as well as the national and foreign sports diplomacy event, with state support, the government commissioner responsible for the development and international sports competitions in Budapest. In this context, the central budget of the 11,3 billion funds required to apply for and organise sporting events in 2021 are set out in Annex XI. It's in the prime minister's chapter. Finally, some thoughts on promoting competition sport. This appropriation is intended to cover additional national events, conferences and congresses, participation in international sporting events, congresses, the development, cooperation and modular development of sports information systems, and sources of support for expert activities, such as the promotion of competition. Ladies and gentlemen, I highlighted three important elements of the draft budget for 2021 for adult education, vocational training and sport, and compared it with the current year of 2020. I think that the test of pudding is definitely eating, so the budget always shows its usefulness in practice. I have experience, as I used to work as deputy mayor of Győr, I participated in the planning and implementation of a small annual budget worth HUF 50 billion in two cycles. We say that if we want to achieve positive results next year, we need to draw up an appropriate and enforceable budget. I believe that, in view of the overall budget, this budget for 2021 is acceptable, and that details will clearly be shown in the accounts. For my part, I support it, and that is what I ask of all the Members present. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-10-64	Thank you very much, Congressman Robert Simon. The next scheduled speaker is Róbert Dudás, from the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-10-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, This morning, the pro-government Fidesz lead speaker said that this budget is a credible, reliable and credible budget. I say that, in relation to the municipalities and in my speech, I am trying to focus primarily on the municipalities and the local government, and I think that we can say that we are talking about an unthinkable budget, which is certainly without a practical approach and which is also harmful. I am talking about the municipalities that have lost over the last thirty years since the change of regime. In particular, this should be stated for the last ten years. I dare say this because I have been at all levels of the local government since 2010, I have represented the local governments at all levels, as a representative of small towns, as a county assembly representative, as mayor, or at international level in the Committee of the Regions, and I have seen how the local governments operate either in Hungary or in other countries of the European Union, and how the governments are, by the way, in the municipalities and in the local government themselves. But what happened? In 2006, you won almost all the municipalities in the country. In 2010, the local government, municipal offices, district offices and county assemblies were also reorganised with different tasks. The only problem is that these steps are both local government and what is very important is that they have been done to the detriment of the people who live there. This has happened because they are not looking at what is needed, but that there is political, material gain or not. They're just looking at him politically. But let's watch the county councils. In 2010, county assemblies and even after 2010 have been involved in institution maintenance and maintenance of social institutions across the county for two years. Then they took away these tasks and transferred them to the government offices. Until 2014, county general meetings did not have any tasks, and then they received the allocation of the resources of the regional development operational programme, with the result. A few of them have been on the defendant's bench ever since because they've been prosecuted. From 2020 onwards, in the county assemblies, which will be set up from 13 October 2019, this source will not be there, and they will need to be given another task. The only problem is, otherwise I see the full right to hold county assemblies in the system, but this should not be at the expense of small town, village or city assemblies, not at the expense of these general assemblies or municipal bodies. What we see now is that this is exactly what they do by setting up economic zones, by withdrawing funds from settlements, by handing them into the county assembly's hands. They are interfering with the local government, thus interfering with the lives of those living there, and will otherwise distribute development resources from a place where they will tell which settlements need it, who do not see it. All over Europe, but I can safely say that the democratically settled countries around the world are embarrassingly careful to ensure that this subsidiarity principle is taken at the nearest level to the population, because it is there that they see best what is needed, what can be done, what needs to be done, what needs to be done, what needs to be done, what needs to be done, what needs to be done. It's not for that purpose. They also ignored the fact that the organisation that brought together the largest municipalities, the National Association of Municipal Local Governments, criticized this measure sharply and asked the government to withdraw it because it was not effective and does not represent the interests of the local authorities. They even ignored the fact that it raises constitutional concerns, since the county general meetings are thus entrusted with the right to acquire property, without otherwise being entitled to ownership by county assemblies. During the emergency, it was the municipalities that did the defense on the ground. They did everything they could. They have done everything in their power to ensure the life and health of the local population. We have heard reports from the government here from week to week about just how much protective equipment we have received from China. We're talking 140-150 million masks, we're talking 2.5 million tests, we just don't know where they went, and if the national consultation can be posted, why didn't they post one or two masks to all the residents, but rather three masks so they could defend themselves locally. These things were solved by the municipalities. And what did they get in return? Withdrawals. Small-scale municipalities. Back in time again, after the 2010 government, district offices were set up. I am trying to highlight this because, as mayor of small settlements, I think I may see it differently, but I prefer to say that I see the life and life situation of those living in small settlements much better than it is possible to see at all from the capital. [[16.20]] With the establishment of the district offices, resources and tasks were withdrawn and transferred to the district offices. This is not necessarily a big problem in the city, because it may just have to go from one building to the other, but at the same time, if people can no longer handle matters locally, but they have to go to another settlement, it is a very big problem on the spot, and it has been happening since 2010, --11, -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------but------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- This not only looks down on the municipalities, the local government, and makes it impossible, but also the people who live there. And here, allow me to refer to a point in the budget in the municipalities, especially in the small-town municipal community, as regards visual investments and actually the investments of my buddy, because they are already almost named and what they should be used for. In recent years, I've said two things that the closure of, or the possible closure of, has caused serious disruption and can cause people living in villages. One of these is the rethinking of the savings cooperatives. At the level of the management of the savings cooperative, decisions have been made to eliminate savings cooperatives in many settlements. The other place is the position of the post office. Post offices were merged in many small settlements. Legally, it is regulated how many thousands of people do not have to operate a post office. In that case, and believe me, this is the case in the countryside in Hungary, if the savings cooperatives and the post offices close, the residents will be extremely impossible. These should be maintained and financed by those which otherwise go to visual investment. But not to say I'm just criticizing, I'd also like to say positive. In the area of social expenditure, as mayor, I felt that there would always be a place for money, because there are many things to be achieved, that government support for social expenditure is an appropriate amount, and this is likewise guaranteed in the next year's budget; as we must say, there was also a debt consolidation in relation to the local government. However, everyone forgets to say that when debt consolidation was created... when the debt of the indebted municipalities was assumed by the State, and here it is necessary to distinguish between the municipality and the municipality because not all the municipalities were indebted. Some were not indebted; some were indebted by their own fault, and some were indebted to them without their own fault, but they immediately took away 60% of the vehicle tax from the municipalities that were not otherwise in need of debt consolidation, and they also took away 60% from them. The fact is that now there is not a single forint left by the municipalities, and the budget also states that they are not planning to do so until 2024. From these taxes, the countryside in Hungary can say that this tax revenue alone amounts to 1.5-2 percent, not to improvements in these incomes, but to the resources necessary for their mandatory duties. If there are withdrawals, the performance of mandatory tasks on the ground is at risk. I do not even say that the municipalities must slowly release their own responsibilities, but they may also be at risk of carrying out compulsory tasks; the provision of medical care may be at risk and, let us say, the maintenance of a kindergarten, which is also a mandatory task of the local government, because the state normative does not otherwise cover the cost of kindergartens. Also this morning, another pro-government speaker told us to trust you, and it's easy to assign your neighbor's budget anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that this is not a budget for Fidesz and not a budget for the opposition, this is a budget for Hungary. As far as trust is concerned, it was from the mouth of Congressman Lajos Szűcs, and it is difficult to vote on his budgetary thoughts with confidence that, by the way, the Tennis Association has just found out that the $3.5 billion minus has been brought together during his presidency. Today, for example, we have discussed the nature and importance of the Hungarian village program. I consider this to be a very important program, as well as the Modern Cities programme. I do not want to be personal, but I have to mention here too, there are people in the pro-government ranks who have abused their power precisely, either through the Hungarian village programme or with regard to TOP resources. [[On the signal of government representatives:]] Congresswoman expressed her incomprehension, or at least showed it. Here we have Happy István, but as mayor of small settlements I know very well that otherwise this possibility is not evenly distributed; theoretically yes, and here comes the difference between theory and practice. Theoretically, everyone can apply, and in practice, when the pro-government representative of the district convenes the associated mayors and discusses who will apply for it, of course, others can submit it, but it will not receive any funds, from now on there are serious problems in the system. I'm going to make a number of modifications to the district, the county, today and tomorrow. I will actually do this not for political purposes, but for the development of the region, for the development of settlements. I am going to do this by asking the pro-government representatives of the region that belongs to the particular amendment to join this amendment within the ParLex system, developing it together, acting together, to explore lobbying together. Of course, he can do this even better as a pro-government Member. Let's lobby together, work together for the development of the region. Congressman Aradski said that we are making good progress in the eradication of poverty. I believe that these are good things on paper, but, Congressman, come down to the country, just don't tell me that, or if you tell me, you'll hear a very different opinion. And let me just say one more thing at the end here, and this is the following: we have expressed our views on a number of occasions in relation to the pension increase, in relation to differentiated pension increases. This is also a point that should be taken into account in the budget, especially in the situation of minimum pensions, which has been HUF 28 500 for 12 years. And then allow me to close an international comparison. In terms of average earnings and minimum pension rates, Hungary is also in the ranks of the world's rushing countries. If we were to raise this amount from 28 500 HUF to 80,000, then we would reach the level of Brazil. So here's the question. And referring back to what Congressman Aradsk said, a number of steps have been taken and may have taken to eradicate poverty, I do not dispute it, there is a lot of work to be done, and many people live not only on minimum pensions, but also on a large number of people living under the minimum living. I would ask you to reconsider the various lines of the budget and to support these issues that I have raised. And don't sabotage the local governments, but help them. Local governments must be supported because they are the ones who can also support residents. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-10-66	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. The next announced speaker was Mr Font Sándor, Member Fidesz.
u2020-06-10-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment on an area on which I do not say that there will be a major debate among my fellow Members present, this is agriculture, especially because, based on the data presented earlier, we can see that we can now safely say it since 2010, because this figure is also known at European level, one of the biggest growth of Hungarian agriculture in the period 2010-2019. This does not mean that a sector does not sometimes have difficulties, such as the emergence of swine fever in livestock since last year or the end of this year's winter causes very unpleasant moments for farmers working in this area, but there is a systemic problem in Hungarian agriculture, we can safely say that there has not been and has not been a problem in the last ten years. [[16.30]] As a result, the development of the sector into the conscious national strategy sector started in 2010 resulted in more than 50 per cent increase in exports, while its profitability reached more than 67 per cent of crop production and more than 60 per cent of livestock production during this period. And it has to be added that the left always says that, well, good, but it also needed EU funds to do so. No question, they were needed, they only had to be used well, they had to be very targeted to ensure their utilisation. But let us be honest that, in addition to this large amount of EU funding, domestic resources are also significant, since it is well known that the European Union does not support some agricultural sectors, leaves this to free competition and allows them to be supported by the national budget within certain limits. Let me mention the data here. In 2010, such areas, such as poultry, pig and animal health, are not supported by the Union. Support for the poultry sector was HUF 4 billion in 2010, HUF 15 billion in 2019, HUF 6 billion in 2010 in support of the pig sector, HUF 22 billion in 2019, and support for animal health increased from HUF 4.5 billion in 2010 to HUF 14 billion, which remain in the 2021 budget. Here I will return to the EU financial support period 2013-2020, when HUF 1300 billion was available for the rural development programme. It is practically a running-off, bell-down program, one of the main criteria of which is that it is almost certain that the total amount will be drawn from Hungarian farmers. This means that an EU grant of HUF 1300 billion has been received for farmers, but I would like to add immediately the envyes here that the farmers had to add the same amount of money from their own pockets, because these rural development subsidies are usually 50 per cent in intensity. This means that during these seven years some HUF 2700 billion of investment has been made and is still partly realised in agriculture in relation to the last years. In recent years, this has been 180,000 applications, so it has been very intense. Extremely wide, nearly 40 areas could be applied for. There was no area that could not have been moved by the possibility of tendering. There is no question that the vast majority of the resources used were for investment, thus either for rural labour retention or also for job creation. And let me mention it, because we almost don't talk about it, the 27 percent VAT. As long as there was so much food VAT, every day the left-wing opposition said that it was a terrible, untenable, black economy, that pensioners could not afford such high VATed foods, and the rest and the rest. Since 2014, VAT reductions for the most typical basic foods have been under way. The reason I'm saying this is to remember this is because the scolding is easy for the government to get, but when it does something positive for society, the rarest thing is that someone says it's done well by the government, and we agree with it. Thus, the VAT on pigs, poultry, cattle, sheep, goats, fish, fresh milk and eggs was reduced from 27% to 5%, of course with all its yields. The strategic issue of Hungarian agriculture is that we want to continue with GMO-free crop production. Anyone who deals with this area knows that we want not only cropping but also feed for feeding animals to be GMO-free. That's a much more exciting question. We can't do that today. We need to import protein crops, and they're all GMOs, especially soybeans. The vast majority of this is imported from South America, and unfortunately it is a GMO product, so not all animal final products and processed foods can be described as GMO-free, because which animals are fed with GMO feed, this certification should not apply. At the same time, all Hungarian cereals and feed products produced in Hungary are already GMO-free because of the known ban in Hungary. In this respect, we were among the first in Europe and today there is a tendency to continue to do so. A very serious agricultural compensation scheme has been developed, one of which, as one leg, has been in place for a few years, a system to mitigate or prevent ice damage. Hungarian agriculture can work with such conditions today. And let's be honest, before the coronal virus outbreak arrived, we had no other purpose than to expect this rate of growth, because it turned out that Hungary's general economic growth, which we know was 4-5 percent of agriculture with its own body in the last two or three years, was quite well established, put itself in place and added results to this Hungarian economic growth. There is no question that this area was affected by the epidemic; in particular, the supply of food related to tourism, catering, wine and alcohol consumption, which is typically related to these areas, there are serious losses. The agricultural government, like all other sectoral governments and ministries, immediately took action. Here again, it was able to provide the individual sector with very preferential wage compensation, tax compensation and benefits for the various loans received, as well as cost reductions contributing to the guarantee elements. Of course, in the budget presented now and for next year, there is a very wide repertoire to be provided by the agricultural government, from agricultural education to research to marketing, from a great many areas. Once again, let me mention a section in which putting domestic resources alongside it will be crucial: what support we can provide from our own pockets, from national sources, to sectoral actors who cannot obtain EU funds, because that is the EU's regulation, and there are a number of such areas. Therefore, dairy farmers, cattle, sheep and goat farmers can continue to rely on further support for milk production. The maximum domestic source support shall be granted to poultry farmers and pig keepers. It's been like this for years. EU support for these two livestock farming sectors is prohibited under EU rules, but only limited national support by the EU is possible. Domestic support for the prevention and eradication of animal diseases is extremely important. I mentioned the outbreak of swine fever and avian influenza. This disease is unfortunately imported regardless of the Hungarian animal health and government system, which usually results in our export products being banned in areas of sensitive countries. We are struggling very hard to prove that we are in control of these diseases, isolated, localised, and that we have managed to achieve this in several places from uninfected areas. With the same domestic resources, but less than the previous ones, the support of the field watch is lower. A larger amount of de minimis aid. The aid to be granted for the production of various products, for example, spice peppers, dried fodder, rabbit farming, the refund of excise duties on gas oil in the vine-fruit sector, is granted to farmers in the context of the so-called de minimis type of aid. [[16.40]] A new, unpleasant disease has also reached Hungary in the field of grape cultivation, the disease causing the golden jaundice of the grapes and leading to the extinction of the plantation, which flows up from southern Mediterranean countries, has unfortunately been isolated in South-West Hungary. The agricultural government is trying very hard to get rid of this, and, of course, it has created a separate fund for this too. Animal husbandry aid is a special big chapter of each country, for us too. It is well known that, since our entry into the EU, agricultural balance has shifted to crop production at the expense of livestock production, and since then we have been trying very hard to achieve recovery, balance and growth. I would add that this is a country-specific trend, not a Hungarian disease in this case. As a result, supporting livestock production will lead to support for the manufacturing industry, the food processing industry, which was one of the biggest winners of the rural development programme mentioned above, and the various additional Hungarian subsidies have also contributed greatly to this. In addition to supporting the aforementioned resources, the issue of so-called financial support is quite significant, since here the agricultural government has also taken over a guarantee, a soft loan grant, which is to support various interest rate subsidies and all borrowing costs through the Széchenyi credit card; I do not list here the forms of support launched by the MNB and Eximbank, the forms of support launched by the Hungarian Development Bank, which entail certain costs for farmers in the case of borrowing. To this end, the agricultural government provides virtually one support that will eliminate these costs or make them a minimum amount. We've talked a lot about good wine for the company. We claim that the Agricultural Marketing Centre must continue to play a leading role in the promotion of agricultural products and foodstuffs. The best promotion is quality. We claim that Hungarian agricultural products are world-class, one of the best quality, and that requires a sense of self-confidence in the country, so that we can buy Hungarian food, so that we can give a terrifying dynamic to Hungarian agriculture. We see that the agricultural government has well targeted the means to keep the results achieved so far in this difficult crisis, but we are more optimistic than that, because the agricultural sector is a very special sector, here, please, we produce food, and humanity consumes food. In English, I wanted to say that there are no earthlings who can exclude themselves from the agricultural sector, because the sector produces food and people consume food. Accordingly, thanks to God, in the spring of this year, despite the virus, agricultural production has also been set in motion by the government with apparently very positive numbers for the next year, forecasting a further growth, and creating the financial funds for this. So I wholeheartedly recommend to all those who are monitoring the life of agriculture to support this budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Font. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-06-10-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to comment on the opinion of the MSZP faction on the budget submitted, in principle, on the BM chapter, in particular on the area affecting the municipalities and the law enforcement bodies of the Ministry of Interior. The bill on Hungary's budget for 2021 confirms the previous press news and the direction of government action against local governments already taken, the withdrawal of municipal resources is increasing, which, moreover, seems to be going beyond 2021. Ad 1: By 2021, the total amount of the car tax will increase the central budget, so the domestic authorities cannot retain their share of the car tax, which is extremely sensitive to all municipalities. This is the most important source of income for many small settlements, the absence of which could jeopardise the functioning of the village. According to the president of the Hungarian Public Officials, Public Servants and Civil Service Workers' Union, the withdrawal is so high that only the withdrawal of this tax causes the inability of about 70 local municipalities. Moreover, the withdrawal of the vehicle tax can be shown not only to protect against the epidemic, as the outlook shows that this will not only be a permanent source of revenue for the budget every year, but also until 2024. According to the calculations, the amount received in 2024 is already more than HUF 95 billion, although previously the central budget expected HUF 50 billion per year on this line. Ad 2: The local government tax, called the solidarity contribution, puts larger settlements in difficulty in the first place. Among the direct revenues of the central budget, the amount of the local government solidarity contribution within the budget payments will rise to HUF 160 billion next year, as planned by the government, after HUF 43 billion in 2020. The amount of this tax therefore increases by no less than fourfold in the draft budget. This tax is also increasing dramatically in the case of the capital, according to Mr. Mayor Gergely Christmas, this year's HUF 10 billion instead of their calculation, the capital will have to pay close to four times the tax rate into the central budget. Let me stop here for a moment, fellow Members, because the government and its propaganda machinery have been entertaining the entire Hungarian population with the Lanchíd case and the fate of the Chain Bridge for days and weeks; dares to do this with all the state aid for the renewal of this national symbol of HUF 6 billion. The entire Chain Bridge renovation was planned for HUF 23 billion. Even if we increase this amount because of the delay and the outbreak of the virus, honourable Members, you will still take back five times the amount of this money, state aid, from Budapest next year with this budget law. But in particular, we can say that with this tax, the sum taken from Budapest in the form of a solidarity tax, it could include the complete renovation of the Chain Bridge, perhaps even the addition of gold, and, compared to that, there is a political circus going on about whether there will be a renovation or no renovation. It is quite amazing, my fellow Members, and that they sit on state aid of HUF 6 billion for weeks and months, and even now slowly for years, because this may have been prepared by the previous city leadership, it is absolutely outrageous, given the planning of this tax law and this budgetary revenue source. Ad 3: The special economic zones will not secretly withdraw money from the pockets of the local authorities concerned. The government can declare at least HUF 5 billion of investment to be a special economic zone. In the special economic zone, some of the tasks of the local government will be carried out in the future by the county municipality, and accordingly the tax revenues will not be passed on to the local and, without exception, to the pro-government county municipalities. Ad 4: However, local authorities which are not special economic zones are not free to hold the amount of business tax received. According to the bill submitted during spring, local authorities must primarily use the business tax to finance local public transport, so this money will not be withdrawn, but the limitation of its use greatly reduces the local government's leeway and the decisions of local communities. Ad 5: In the last few months, the revenues of local authorities from parking have been completely eliminated, as the government decree has freed the surface parking for the duration of the emergency. It is not entirely clear what effect this has had on the virus epidemic at national level, but we certainly do not see the return of this money in the next year's budget. [[16.50]] Although the government is proud to say that the main figures of the central budget will be restored, it can be said that this is at the expense of the municipalities. With regard to the car tax, 36 extra withdrawals of 120 billion will take place, which together is already more than 150 billion forints. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has referred to Austria several times here in Parliament in recent months. He said that we might consider Austria as a laboratory, as a model for the control of the virus epidemic. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this Austria is currently living in Austria, led by Chancellor Kurz, who is also right-wing, on the very same day when the Austrian government is living at EUR 1 billion! Distribute to local authorities, who honorfully took their part in the fight against the virus epidemic. They obviously beat themselves to extra costs and obviously helped their fellow countrymen, their personal acquaintances, their neighbors wherever they could, and they could count on their government and their government to provide financial assistance. And you, the pro-government representatives of the Hungarian Parliament and the proposal submitted by your government to this money we are talking about... the EUR 1 billion is very, very, very large minimum HUF 300 billion, this is twice as much as what you are not giving, but will be taken away from the municipalities in addition next year. I think it's completely incomprehensible, and it's not okay. In particular, it is painful that this tribute not only applies to the year, but to the year 21, but also to the budgetary outlook until 2024. This revealed the government's earlier claim that withdrawal was necessary to combat the epidemic. Today, it is clear that the goal is actually to bleed out the municipalities. It is a typical step that the public does not feel these measures directly, which is a double advantage for the government. On the one hand, the government may deny that it would implement budgetary cuts due to crisis management and on the other hand, the resources of opposition-led municipalities will be reduced. The aim is to make them less able to carry out their duties, and it is not by chance that these measures will be planned until 2024 at the next municipal elections. The horse is hanging, my fellow Members, not just the horse's foot. Measures affecting local governments are therefore motivated not only by political revenge, but also by a sculpting political effort to bring back the municipalities lost in 19 into pro-government control, but, my fellow Members, as we have repeatedly told you, the situation is not so. The situation is not about putting opposition-led self-governments at a disadvantage with this measure. With this measure, you are putting Hungarian people living in settlements at a disadvantage, regardless of which party they voted for. In every town, every small town, or small settlement, where the candidates of Fidesz did not win, you also have a large number of voters, and you also take away from these people the opportunity to decide their own fate and to keep certain services or certain jobs, or to maintain local subsidies, because it is obvious that if the local government's incomes are reduced in this way, people will in some way drink the juice. As regards the proposals made by the MSZP, ladies and gentlemen, we regard the municipalities as a resource, and we believe that the reconstruction of the country, the re-launching of the crisis after the crisis, could be a very serious resource and key, and that is what we are proposing to link local governments and job creation. After the crisis, it is likely that we will not return to the same way of life as we knew it at the end of 19 or early 2020, so the Hungarian state must take a new role in order to rebuild Hungary. There is a greater need for free self-governments in this work than ever before. Substantial resources and competences should be allocated to territorial development building on local resources and partnerships. We want the local authorities to have competence, economic and professional autonomy in organising and operating all public services that are the defining conditions for the lives of people living in the local areas. Such is the organisation and operation of education and social services. We demand that the municipalities receive the necessary financial cover from the State budget to carry out their mandatory duties. We need a reconstruction programme, which not only provides temporary support, community service, but also provides long-term value and jobs. Everyone suffers the economic crisis and demands adaptation from everyone, but it is also an opportunity for a new life. Under current technological conditions, the energy needs of Hungary's housing population can be reduced by 40 percent, which would have a beneficial impact on energy security, energy import exposure, air pollution and human health. This is why we are proposing a public energy modernisation programme for major residential real estates, using HUF 250 billion in 2020 and HUF 500 billion in 2021, which also creates jobs and reduces the difficulties of construction in crisis. The money shall be provided by the State in the form of grants and preferential or interest-free loans, and commercial banks may be involved in the mediation of loans. The aid could be used for the insulation of family houses, panel houses, brick buildings and other residential buildings, for windows, for the modernisation of heating and energy production systems and for the installation of solar panels. The available resources shall be allocated per municipality on the basis of qualitative and quantitative data on the building stock of that municipality. It is up to the municipalities to organise the implementation of the urban building energy modernisation on a tender basis, subject to a proportionate framework. A maximum of 20 percent of the properties covered by the scheme may be property owned by a municipality, in which case the municipality will carry out the construction on its own behalf. As a second point, the Hungarian State should also launch a social and market rent-based programme for the large-scale development of the domestic housing stock, for the temporary management of the domestic construction crisis, for the development of a fairer, affordable rental market and for the support of the lives of new family-founding generations. In the first wave of the program, 40,000 new flats of 60 square meters should be created. The budget of the programme is HUF 1000 billion, which can be financed partly by the budget, and partly by the State guaranteed loan based on future rentals. At the initiative of the projects, municipalities are entitled and can contribute to the launch of a project through the provision of own land. The use of the built-up property is determined by the municipalities, which can also be a social or market-based lease. The owner of the new buildings is the municipality, the rent collected is entered into the municipal budget, the maintenance of the property, the modernisation of the property can be used to finance the municipal loan. The works and pricing carried out in the programme will be published by the State in a public database at national level, with Hungarian-owned companies participating in the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, We are convinced that this programme contributes to the reconstruction of the country, the recovery of Hungarian companies, the creation of new real jobs and, not least, the improvement of the quality of life of our countrymen. We ask that you consider and ask that, instead of the so far at least inexplicable offers of public works programmes, the government choose and choose the Parliament itself through the budget a path where, as has been said, the quality of life of the Hungarian people improves, domestic companies can be put on their feet, and we can provide real, real, new jobs for many of our countrymen. And I'll give my speech on law enforcement tasks later. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-10-70	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party in the debate would renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Dear Parliament, We now have a preliminary speaker, Ms Agnes Molnár, Fidesz. [[17.00]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-06-10-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The global coronal virus epidemic has put the world in a huge challenge and placed health care at the centre of attention. In a special situation, special measures are needed, which has been recognised by the government, and decisions that have been the key to successful protection have been taken in good time, from the establishment of the operational tribe to coordinated action in health care. At the same time, the economic defence action plan has implemented targeted support, job protection and a proper reorganization of the budget in the sectors affected by the virus. So far, the government has spent 590 billion forints on the control of the epidemic. Fast and successful measures will allow life, economy, health, and these special measures will also be reflected in the draft budget for next year. The focus was on the creation of two large independent funds, the HUF 2550 billion Economic Protection Fund, which was used to restart the economy and strengthen employment, and the nearly HUF 3000 billion Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund, which together contains the resources needed for the operation of the health system and for the control of the epidemic. And what hasn't changed in the meantime is the predictability, planning and credibility of the budget. We may need to modify some data later to adapt to the changing situation, but to talk about next year's budget in the epidemic situation is possible based on the credibility of recent years. The government's plans could be fulfilled year after year, keeping the economy and everyday life on a predictable and growing path, while keeping the fiscal balance. We have the opportunity to get out of the epidemic situation soon after this year's difficult period, with GDP rising again next year, even significantly increasing by 4.8 percent, and a government deficit below 3 percent. We are pleased to say that 2021 will be the fifth year in a row, when the health budget is not only increasing, but the rate of growth is more than HUF 100 billion, and I have not yet reached back in 2010. In 2021, this is HUF 156 billion, so HUF 156 billion more will be spent next year on our clinics, hospitals, rescues or wage increases. This is complemented by 30 billion forints, the central reserve for the control of the epidemic. Compared to 2010, health spending will be HUF 918 billion higher in 2021. I would like to reiterate this: since 2010, the Orbán government has spent 918 billion more on health care. The total revenue and expenditure of the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund budget is HUF 2935 billion, so we can talk about a balanced fund. We saw a world after 2010 when there was a 300 billion-dollar shortage of this fund. The cash register of healing-preventive benefits is highlighted, because hospitals and clinics, general health care and protective women, dental care and rescue are all financed from here, and in 2021 HUF 1566 billion arrives in this area, which is HUF 137 billion, a 10 percent surplus compared to this year's 2020 year. Since 2010, the budget for curative-preventive benefits has more than doubled. This increase is also 61 percent in terms of inflation, compared to the period before 2010, when, unfortunately, growth was zero in real terms. The main components of the HUF 137 billion surplus, as we have heard today, are the extra wage increases, the surplus of resources resulting from this year's free fertility treatments, the source of funding for high-value medicines and the money provided for the restructuring of the financing system and the provision. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not possible to thank our doctors, nurses and all health care workers enough for doing their responsible work every day, which has become even more difficult during the coronal virus epidemic. The government can thank you for this mainly by improving their living conditions, the main tool of which and one of the possible, but its main means is to raise wages. In the last two decades, two paths and two methods have been drawn. Some have raised wages once before 2010 and also on loans and burdened the budget of the municipalities without any collateral. And the other way, which started after 2010, was by the Orbán government, we chose another way: we raised wages step by step to a noticeable extent, with it being covered in the budget. The first wage increase, on average, was 27 per cent between 2012-13 and wages increased year after year 2016. Medical wages increased by HUF 107 thousand in 2016 and by HUF 100 thousand in 17 respectively, while the laborers' wages increased by 26,5, 12, 8 percent between 2016-19 and last year again by 8 percent. And all this continues, because the wages of health professionals will only increase twice this year, a 14 percent increase has already been made in January, and another 20 percent increase will be received in November this year, supplemented by another 30 percent in January 2022. It is important that the provision that has been introduced since last year also affects the women in charge, together with the workers, so that they also receive the 72 percent increase in 2019-22. Since the change of regime, it can be said that there has never been a parliamentary term when the pay of nurses would have increased as much as between 2018 and 22. So everyone can decide which is the right way to do it: to give a one-time, melting wage increase from credit, or to plan, in total, to provide much greater coverage. We have announced scholarship programmes to the residents, which run successfully year after year and complement the wages of our young doctors with 100, 150 or even 200,000 HUF per month. Allow me to present all of this through a few examples. The average salary of a five-year-old nurse with an OKJ degree did not reach 143 thousand forints in 2010, but this year it exceeds 367,000 forints. The average salary of an OKJ nurse with a 20-year-old legal relationship can also increase from HUF 168 thousand to HUF 434,000 twice during the same period. The increase is similar among graduates with a higher education degree, and the average salary may increase from HUF 188 thousand to HUF 442,000 in the five-year relationship and from HUF 228 thousand in the twenty-year relationship to HUF 574 thousand. [[17.10]] Doctors also experienced a large increase. The average salary of an eight-year-old lawyer can rise from HUF 292,000 to HUF 834,000 in ten years, and for a 20-year-old specialist we can talk about an average salary of HUF 381 thousand in 2010 and for HUF 921,000 in this year. A surplus of HUF 65.6 billion is available in the budget to cover the increase in wages for healthcare workers between 2018 and 2020, so the appropriation includes HUF 168.3 billion. In addition to the professionals, we also need additional wage arrangements for our doctors. I am pleased that the government has set a further increase in medical wages as a goal, and further negotiations are being held on this issue. The government's commitment is therefore to a new wage increase that offers a perspective, which can be accompanied by a parallel reflection of the gratuity system. Health wages in one decade of public finances are the biggest increase. In 2010 it was less than HUF 270 billion, so next year it is HUF 652 billion, and the increase is 142 percent. The Hungarian Central Statistical Office provides an annual statement of how the average earnings for each section of the sector are going, and progress can be seen here as well. In 2009, the human health area was 13th, but in 2019 it was 9th among the sectors. The workers' wages will rise twice this year, so further progress can be made in the ranking. However, we must not forget that this is a significant success, but we need to continue, because we have made a lot of progress, but we know that it is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, We all know what superhuman work our health workers have done in recent months in preparation for the coronal virus epidemic and in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic, so as of 1 July, the staff defined by the regulation will receive a one-off allowance of HUF 500 000 gross from HUF 92 billion. This affects 160,000 people. I think this is an important gesture to acknowledge their work. The budget for dental care next year is HUF 42.4 billion, which is nearly 30 per cent of this year's surplus, while between 2002 and 2010 there was a 9 per cent decrease in dental support, a 48 per cent increase in real value after 2010. In the Health Insurance Fund, the budget for the rescue will be HUF 44.9 billion, which is double the budget allocation for 2010 and HUF 1.6 billion higher than this year. In recent years, nearly a thousand new ambulances have been acquired, with the average age of cars in use in five years, which is unique in Europe as well. In addition, the average salary of paramedics is now more than twice the average salary of 2010. The drug register will be HUF 431 billion next year, with 10 percent more money for drug support in 2021 than this year. In 2010 there was only HUF 45 billion for medical aid, this year it is HUF 74 billion, which will grow to HUF 80 billion next year. Health promotions can continue from another HUF 30 billion in the framework of the Healthy Budapest programme, with HUF 6.75 billion in funding for the tasks of the national public health strategy next year. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of next year's budget, we can clearly see that despite the coronal virus epidemic, we have managed to maintain the results achieved earlier, that wage increases and improvements are being made, and that health care can be enriched with growing resources for the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-73	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, In this comment, I would like to focus on the main findings that should be made on this budget. I would like to address some areas, and I will try to do so by responding to some of the sentences that have been said here in the debate, with particular attention to what the Secretary of State and former Minister have said, and I would therefore also like to make some statements that I think we will be able to put to the debate sooner or later. Unfortunately, the government has put Parliament in a position where Parliament is essentially forced to hold a frivolous debate, and the reason for that is that what has been presented to us is that you are unwilling and unable to really face the possibility that we are here in a very serious crisis, or that we are developing; that you have the opportunity to really change and break up with the policy that has failed over the last ten years, which is essentially state-centred, loyalty-centred; that you should move away from a solution that is particularly observant to your friends. In these weeks and months, it is clear that you have not been able to provide anything for the majority of people, you have not dared to touch it in cowardice, and that you have been weak, that you are trying to give more to others instead of the few, that is what this is all about. They do so only one thing, and then I will take the opportunity here by the Secretary of State; or, no, it was one of the Members who claimed that 806 companies had received 170,000 people's job-saving support. With all due respect, what happens to the other 599,000 businesses? What happens to those who, by the way, are not in the circle of loyalty, do not belong to the circle that you want to finance separately, who are not in a position to submit a separate tender by the way, but in the last few weeks, they have been ruined in the last few months, and they will be destroyed in the coming months because they are not being dealt with? I understand you're happy to talk about your conservative policy, I understand you're happy to talk about 806 businesses, but you're not talking about the people you left behind. They do so by showing that they spend more on everything. Only one is forgotten, Mr Secretary of State, that the increase in revenue for 2021 or the level of revenue does not cover the increase in inflation. Then talk about what they won't spend on. Because here the following speakers tell us how big they are now able to spend compared to ten years ago, but this has nothing to do with increasing the wages of doctors, it has nothing to do with the people they can offer at least something right now. So you're basically creating a frivolous situation, and you're cowards to face more things in substance. [[17.20]] Moreover, people are betrayed in this budget, betraying those who, by the way, have not been paid as employees, because they have no other option, and they have lived up to their minimum savings. They betray the municipalities, betray the cities from which the resources that could otherwise have been used to protect them were taken away. And beyond the cities, they have betrayed families that are not given the opportunity here for the next period. There it was the simplest example in education that they were unable to provide a meaningful opportunity to catch up in education and not to provide for the next period, either by expanding digital opportunities and making use of it. So I think that what you are saying is here in fact, that we are not talking about 18 to 20 percent of planning unless you want to add six to eight years again, how much you spend to deal with the crisis. But let's go back to the budget ahead. In addition, they pretend to put people in movies and start talking about things that have nothing to do with reality. What they are building on is basically encrypted, and I included that the data for 2019 were not disclosed, that the structure of public finances had been completely uncomparable and adapted, so that they could otherwise talk about such numbers, but this does not mean any surplus in everyday life to anyone outside some areas. Why do I tell you that state-centred arrangement is even important to you? For example, the budget for defence has been increased, it is important for you; the continuation of large public investment is important for you, but what happens to small businesses is not, the more than 500 thousand businesses that should be dealt with. So basically, the numbers have been uncomparable, encrypted, there are no meaningful data from 2019, 2020 has been confused by the crisis, and you are talking about 2021 in a way that is slightly beyond optimism. But let's assume and play with the idea that when you do this, what might come of it. You are trying to show the situation in this budget that you will be able to expect minimal losses this year and maximum opportunities next year. The reality of this will be proven by life, but the fact is, Mr. Secretary of State, that they can do this, and that is why I say that they are encrypting the traceability of the budget, because they are making such a situation that, instead of monthly forecasts, they will say every month that we are exactly where you want us to be, because there are no prognosis, there is no projection of what they think, what they expect in terms of budgetary processes. Therefore, they can easily get into the situation that they are trying to do from the convergence programme... not even there; that these two are not in line, I think this is also felt. So in this way they make the budgetary debate false and ridiculous with this solution, which I can call the Hungarian model, which responds to this crisis management in accordance with its state-centred, loyalty-based nature, and this crisis management points in the direction that only the privileged can participate now, and that is what next year brings with it in essence. I would like to point out once again that what is ahead of us has been created deliberately, and they refuse to report the real figures here before us, refusing to give an opportunity for budgetary planning in which Parliament would have had the right to control. I am also saying this because this year's practice has evolved accordingly, in order to carry out a budget restructuring, an amendment that has not been agreed with Parliament. Therefore, this budget in this form is certainly unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-10-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Benő Banai asked for the floor, only I had the name of Secretary of State Izer Norbert on the monitor. No problem, of course the secretary of state has the floor.
u2020-06-10-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I also asked for the floor, because Mr László Varju is also the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and from his position in this position, I think that if one of the Members of the Honourable Parliament is to know the proposal for a budget law that we are debating on his own initiative better. Part of the draft budget law is the presentation of the macroeconomic situation, part of what the pillars are, the economic policy on which we are building next year's budget. Mr President, Mr President, you have said that what is going on in the budget is a false and ridiculous debate, a frivolous debate, and that the economic policy of the past ten years has failed. The figures published by the official Hungarian and international statistical organisations on the state of the Hungarian economy must be well known. Although you may consider the economic policy of the last ten years as a failure, I would ask you to draw up Eurostat numbers, look at the extent to which the Hungarian economy has grown over the past ten years. This is an increase of more than 32 per cent, compared with an average increase of less than 13 per cent in the European Union. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that the activity rate in Hungary has increased the second largest in the EU Member States over the last ten years. Reducing unemployment was also one of the most important. And indeed, these processes marked not only a year, as I said, they marked a comprehensive ten years, and in fact Hungary was among the few countries that were still able to record a positive growth figure in the first quarter of 2020. I think, Mr Member, that if we compare the situation before the current economic crisis and the situation before the economic crisis ten years ago, then perhaps the word 'failed' could be put to another period. We remember that ten years ago Hungary was the first country to need external resources, IMF, European Commission. [[László Varju: The same amount of government debt!]] Mr Congressman, Mr President, if economic policy had failed, Hungary would not have been able to sell foreign exchange bonds and green bonds with significant demand. There was considerable demand, and only EUR 1.5 billion was sold for green bonds, with demand of more than 7 billion. So I think that market investors, who put their money into the Hungarian Treasury, look carefully at the situation of the country. And my statement is that ten years ago, these financial investors didn't buy our sovereign debt, and now they're not just buying it, but there's a substantial surplus demand. I believe that, in addition to the statistical figures, this is a significant market confirmation that economic policy is in the right direction. The direction of economic policy can, of course, also be assessed from the perspective of individual persons. And not only the macroeconomic figures have evolved well, but also the evolution of real earnings in all categories of earnings, the evolution of savings, and I could continue. Let me just say the savings of households: in 2008 there was 2.1 percent of the disposable income, and in 2019 it was 12 percent. [[17 .30]] I therefore believe that, overall, there was the basis on which the proposed budget law for 2021 could be built. The Member said that it is confusing that if revenue increases or revenues do not increase with the planned inflation compared to revenue, then how can we spend additional expenditure on all areas. First of all, I would like to make it clear that when the Member sees revenue figures for 2020, he came from the numbers of the original draft budget law for 2020, if I have understood correctly. [[Laszlo Varju nods.]] We had good hope of building this budget on economic growth of around 4 percent. We know that an epidemic has occurred, and we know that virtually everyone in Europe is counting on a smaller or more shrinking economy. We calculate that the Hungarian economy may decrease by 3 percent, and that the government has decided on additional tax reductions to compensate for the negative effects, which the Honourable Parliament has also sanctioned in a significant part. So I would ask Mr President, Member, that when you look at revenue, you should take into account that, on the one hand, the macroeconomic processes are different from those of the originally adopted budget, and, on the other hand, the government and Parliament have decided on a number of tax reductions. The revenue from 2021 should be assessed in relation to this. We expect that, after this year's 3 percent economic shrinkage, we can trust that the positive prognosis can also be achieved, and that it will not be this big, but after the 3 percent decline in the baseline scenario, we will be able to increase by 4.8 percent next year. Please refer to the numbers. After revenue, we look at expenditure: how can we spend more on virtually every priority area compared to what we saw in 2019 or 20? There are two reasons for this. One is that if we put this year's 3-percent projected decline together and the 4.8 per cent increase next year, we see together for the two years that the economy is expanding overall compared to the. 19 figures, and this gives us the opportunity to increase expenditure as well. The other thing that should be taken into account by Mr President is that, in recent years, the stability of public finances has meant that we have calculated not only with a deficit of less than 3 per cent, but also with a deficit of 2 per cent, or with a deficit of 1.8 per cent originally this year, next year of 2.9 per cent. One percentage point difference corresponds to approximately HUF 500 billion. So we can continue to deliver additional expenditure in a number of areas, we are still below the Maastricht 3-percent reference level, but we are closer to 3 per cent than in recent years. Thank God that we can do this, the budget policy was so secure that we could move away with the deficit level, and with all this, we assume that the debt ratio could decrease next year after the temporary growth this year and fall below 70%. As far as the figures for 2019 are concerned, Member, Mr President said that we do not know the numbers, we did not publish the numbers. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Ministry of Finance publishes monthly cash flow data from the central budget. You can find local government data on the website of the Hungarian State Treasury on the basis of municipal reports. But if someone does not trust the data provided by Hungarian official bodies, then I ask you to look at the public data of the European Commission or Eurostat, in these you will find the Hungarian figures for 2019. You will find that in 2019 the Hungarian economy grew by 4.9 percent, one of the highest rates in the European Union; you will find on the Eurostat and European Commission website that the general government deficit was 2 percent of GDP; as well as that in 2019 the debt ratio decreased to 66.3 percent, after a reduction of almost 4 percentage points. The 2019 figures are therefore well-known, and the processes that we have built next year's draft budget law are well known. Finally, let me talk about transparency. In Europe, as many countries as we see, we see so many national budgetary systems. There are countries where next year's draft budget law now simplified represents a fraction of the Hungarian document, for example Finland. I do not know what Mr President would say, what he would say about these proposals, whether these budgets are opaque. I think that the transparency of a budget is due to the availability of the necessary information in the proper structure. In the 2021 budget, we sought to reduce the appropriations of around two thousand appropriations in the original proposal, which we limited, but we wanted to preserve transparency, and that is why Members have been informed of the mass of data presented by the government to Parliament in so-called chapter volumes through 1282 pages. We also wanted to respond to this simplicity, which was welcomed by the President of the State Audit Office, and he thinks that in the current economic situation, this will also contribute to flexibility, to addressing the challenges of the crisis, and on the other hand, we have left the detailed information that the honourable Parliament has become accustomed to in the previous years. I hope that, by reviewing the chapter volumes, you may find the missing information, Mr President and the Members, which they have not been able to read from the proposed norm. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Gelencsér, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-06-10-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Voters who view or listen to us must be unsure of who is right. They hear transparency on one side, and on the other they hear the opposite from the Secretary of State. On one side, how do you say the municipalities? looting, on the other side gigantic municipal developments. It is difficult to get a voter's perspective on what is being said here in this House. But everyone's doing their job, a soul to anyone who wants to mislead the electorate. I would like to state the facts from a constituency perspective through a special state program called the "Modern Cities" programme, and then everyone can decide whether the municipalities are being humiliated by this government or assisted by it. I would like to present to you very briefly the programme of the town of Kaposvár with county rights, and then some people who view us and perhaps even those on the opposition side will be upset that this is not an abuse, but, as in the case of Kaposvár, the development programme of the century. So, ladies and gentlemen, it was a good decision that we here in this House supported the government by launching the programme of modern cities. To report it, to inform it, I might want to create a bit of a wreck, and also lobby for the continuation of the program. The first and largest investment in this area is the two-track construction of Highway 67, the first stage of which was the entry into service. Come over there, take a look, it's nice to ride. We are talking about 33 kilometers, which cost HUF 96 billion, but there is already a building permit, and export plans have been made for the so-called second and third phase, when the phase bypassing Kaposfüred and avoiding Látvány can be completed, so the length of the three beats will be 46 kilometers, and the cost will be HUF 135 billion. This clearly increases the safety of transport, helps the local authorities along the road, helps all the municipalities in the county, reduces the traffic on existing roads, reduces negative environmental impacts, increases the competitiveness of the region, improves mobility, increases employment, and therefore also increases employment. Kaposvár builds an intermodal transport hub with HUF 16.1 billion. The construction is underway, now it's moving at the planned pace. [[17.40]] Sometime at the end of September, we can technically do the handover. Its contribution: reducing the load on roads, reducing the number of accidents, better use of public transport, making public transport companies more economical, improving the safety of pedestrian and road transport, and improving the city's indicators from an environmental point of view, not to mention reducing noise and air pollution, not to mention the fact that car parks are also built within the framework of the project. A local bus depot was set up for more than HUF 5 billion, which was handed over last August 15th. In-site filling stations have been established for buses placed at the site, both diesel and electric and CNG filling sites have been completed. The project is also part of the program "Green Kaposvár" and the city's plans include the purchase of additional electric buses. Ladies and gentlemen, An old debt: a more than 100-year-old theatre, the only stone theatre in the region, the long-awaited reconstruction and renovation of the Csiky Gergely Theatre cost almost HUF 10 billion. The renovation of the building has become an obstacle to continuous operation. There's been a renovation of monuments, stage technology, light technology, sound technology, all using alternative energy. In the north block of the hospital, we did the pole hospital, a project for economic development, an incubator house and a lot of things, parking and parks, and the local government of Kaposvár, worth more than HUF 5 billion. By the way, there was a puppet theatre, a playground with a figure, a promenade, 196 parking spaces, the Civil House. The closure of the entire project will be completed only next year, in the second half of the project, and I would like to emphasise once again, with a cost of more than HUF 5 billion. The Kaposvar Arena is ready. A new sports hall of more than 4,000 seats was created last May, about this time, a little earlier than we are now, we also solemnly handed it over, worth more than HUF 6 billion. This will be the home of several sports and can be organised at international level. While the left has been attacking sport and the establishment of such and similar infrastructures since we have been governing, I would like to say so many times, but he never conceived that cultural events are already an important part of the Arena's life, since there has not been a place for events, a covered room that would be suitable for 3,000 people at once. Our next development is a ten-track race pool. Ladies and gentlemen, As early as last May, the city handed over its ten-track swimming pool to the Kaposvár people, which also has a very good explanation and justification: 493 kindergarteners only this year and 468 first class students participate in free swimming courses in the city. As a result of this programme, which has been going on for a long time and was introduced by Mayor Károly Szita, there has been an increase in interest in water sports in a completely understandable way. In other words, the aim of the development was to create a new ten-track race swimming pool, which also complies with FINA rules, and, of course, a parking lot, and this is an installation with minimal energy use. With the establishment of a new swimming pool, the high-quality implementation of sports events can also be achieved. Just to show everyone here: besides swimming, water polo, fin and diving, as well as synchronized swimming are included in the repertoire. There is a very old building in the middle of the city, many say that the city is a disgrace. For various reasons, it has not been possible to protect or restore its consistency in the past period. With the help of this government program, the former Archives, the first county hall in Somogy County, will be renewed for 1.4 billion HUF. This project is under public procurement and can be completed by the end of next year. Camp Deseda has become unvisitable. The procurement procedure is currently underway and the prospective operator has already been selected. Kaposvár is developing the Deseda campsite for nearly HUF 3 billion, and will be ready sometime in the second quarter of 2022 in an area of nearly 4 hectares. The campsite is not currently operational, its condition does not meet the requirements. We expect him to generate guest tourism, become a four-star camping accommodation complex. Industrial parks are essential for the city's economy. Kaposvár also received more than a billion forints for the development of the industrial park within the framework of the Modern Cities programme, and the city is also trying to innovate here. The day after tomorrow, we are having a bouquet celebration for an investment, otherwise an educational and innovation workshop is being set up with the help of the University of Óbuda. So what I see from these figures is that, unlike what the left is saying, the government sees the municipalities as a partner. This is almost 200 billion forints, which I listed here, so a Hungarian city could grow almost 200 billion forints, as never before in its history. To say from the left, it is only with bias, to put it mildly. Of course, my honourable left-wing fellow Members, there are municipalities in Somogy County that I can do this, the second largest city in the county, which is completely inadequate for the development of the city, and there are ten billion in the current account and cannot spend it. This also requires skills, not to mention the local governments that are likely to raise their voices here, which do not ask for government assistance with one hand and are constantly criticising the government with the other hand. Imagine, for a moment, the situation in which you would answer that question. I know because I ran a council under the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments. I think that the present opposition authorities would not want the situation when we were opposition authorities, so they would certainly not replace us with the situation, let us leave it at that. I see a HUF 3653 billion development plan in this budget, which is very commendable, because beyond the programme "Modern Cities" everyone hopes for major improvements in their cities, villages, and I see HUF 50 billion, which has been designed for the programme "Modern Cities." With this speech, I wanted to bring this government programme to the House and to help and strengthen its continuation. I'm honored by your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mrs Hohn Krisztina. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-79	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Member, Mr Gelencsér, It was very good to hear that a Hungarian city is developing so well. It is a pity that Parliament's speeches can no longer be followed on TV, because if they could, others would probably hear this beautiful development. Although it is also true that I fear the extent of the development of other cities, how important it is to talk about a city with a fidesz leadership. As you said, I was mayor, by the way, only in a much smaller settlement, and seeing the developments in the area, I think it's decisive what kind of party position the mayor is. And not only because of fitness or incompetence, but also because it can be said that in Hungary, people with pro-government may generally have much more development resources. [[17.50]] There are, of course, very conscientious Members who also seek to provide resources to local governments where they have opposition leadership to praise them. For those of you who abuse their individual representatives' permissions, pression the mayors with a good number, fortunately, you are not one of them, and for those of you, I am deeply disdained; because it is not required that the individual Member of Parliament be the mayor's boss. That's all I wanted to say. But why do we say they're bleeding out the local governments? Because not all municipalities are in such a good position as Kaposvár, and not development resources, I believe, are the main elements of opposition criticism, since we are not saying that we do not need improvements. I really need the program. Modern Cities. And as I have said before, as a piece of bread, I need the program. Modern Cities. And I hope that the program of Modern Cities will be for many, many years, and will be associated with many, many sources of development. On the other hand, there's going to be withdrawals. In the local government, it is important that there is a self-government. If you look at it, in many cases, it is more and more and more resources that are fragmented and labelled. So it's called tying in a glove around here, which means you don't have the chance to decide freely about your duties that you don't have to do, because your resources are getting smaller. Many municipalities need to be able to use this vehicle tax for their duties, which they have already taken away this year; the luckier have been able to use it as a source of development or as a self-reliance for various applications. Unfortunately, they won't be able to do that now. And we do believe that there are a lot of things that need to be improved in this budget. And I think that the most important task of opposition representatives is... because you praise the budget, and we are here to formulate our criticisms. Therefore, I would like to call attention to the fact that for several years the basic salary of civil servants has not been increased, which would require a very urgent increase. Strangely enough, those who perform at the end of the local government have been so devalued by their work. It is true that this year the amount of cafeteria you have raised from 200,000 gross to 400 thousand HUF net. They did so when local governments were unable to do so in the event of the withdrawal of the car tax, the expected reduction in business tax and the reduction in tourist tax. It is also important to mention civil servants. The civil servants' payroll has been in need of repair for years. It needs to be improved because it is fortunate that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage are increased, supplementing the salary of those who are not able to reach it according to this table, and so, slowly, many of those working in the municipalities will become minimum wagers. This was the case with us, where I worked, in the village, that all our civil servants were already guaranteed minimum wage. It is also important to increase the current retirement pension minimum. We know that this is no longer directly linked to the pension, but to the payment of various aids and to the determination of the eligibility of aid. It's also 28 500 forints for years. Several opposition groups have already tabled their proposals for this growth. We said 50,000 forints last year, and I think the year before, and unfortunately nothing has happened since then; referring to the fact that the number of people entitled to aid is likely to increase then. There are aids that are regulated locally by local government regulations, but which multipliers you apply, you decide for yourself. So if this increases and this increases so much, the multipliers can be changed. It is very important that we also pay a little more attention to general health care in terms of practice funding. That's what I'm thinking about in the first place. We have tried to do this several times to put forward proposals to you, to raise this in any way. Social workers must also be remembered, as they are increasingly needed. Think of those who do home care or even serve in an institution. By the way, we believe that they would have received a one-time reward of 500,000 forints. In addition, it is important to note that I have been saying this for years, but fortunately I can say this third time to the country's budget, that it is very disproportionate that, in the case of a small town, I mean, say, a small town of between 20 and 35 thousand people, such as Komló 45 and 46, who can be employed by the local government under the law; in contrast, in a district of a similar size in the capital, there are 64 people. They do so by the fact that due to the division of tasks in the capital, the districts have less responsibility than the cities. Thus, because of their economic potential, rural authorities cannot do the task of outsourcing various tasks to external firms. I'm thinking about cleaning up here or the door service. So they also need this number to be able to complete their duties. There's a lot more to say, but my time is limited. I would also like to say that we always, every year, present many amendments to the budget, which you usually throw into the trash with one vote per faction. But we will not give up in the future, and we believe that we are here to make these budget amendments, if this is so annoying in many cases, or perhaps ridiculous. Looking at my fellow pro-government Members today, I have seen in many cases that they have come out good, or perhaps they have been very upset that we dared to speak here, but that is what we do: our right and our duty. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-10-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm is now taking the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-10-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, I've named the budget myself. Now I'm going to say a rather modest word: this is the budget for the crisis. It can be seen from the figures that the government was forced to respond in some way to the economic deterioration of the next year's budget as a result of the human epidemic and to plan accordingly both in the provisioning of reserves and in the setting of priorities. In the EU country report of 26 February 2020 we read: Hungary's strong economic growth offers a valuable opportunity for the country to implement significant structural and institutional reforms for sustainable and long-term growth. Enhancing investment in research, innovation, infrastructure and skills is essential to increase productivity and improve long-term growth for society as a whole. Finally, it notes that the share of public and private investment in GDP is high, but because of its composition it does not contribute enough to productivity growth. I expected, when the government submitted this budget, that the objections and findings described in this country report would in some way, even if this crisis budget would account for the need to increase productivity as a priority for investment. It was just so interesting to me when my fellow Member Gelencsér told me about the 33 kilometers of motorways in Somogy, which I was happy to take, because I went to my wooden tower country, Kaposvár, yes, but we all know that an investment cost of HUF 3 billion per kilometer is about three times as much as it normally costs in Western countries. So the biggest problem is that while we spend a lot of money on investment in proportion to GDP, both return and competitiveness gains from the investment are unfortunately not usually shown in sufficient growth in development. The Hungarian GDP, as we look at it recently, is around 170 billion dollars. Minister of State Banai also said that the 2021 projections amount to HUF 51 000 billion of GDP. In comparison, I will talk about certain priorities. [[18.00]] If I were planning a budget, what are the most important things for me: health, education, pension, protection, local governments, support for small businesses, technological development, culture, child protection, social policy. These priorities are because, for society's well-being, if we use them as a whole and provide sufficient resources, the country's citizens' well-being will improve to such an extent that they no longer care that they are included in a budget for everything that serves the common good. Let's look at health care. They now provide 10 per cent of the average GDP for healthcare in Europe. If you look at the existing source from this budget, which can be found in several chapters, so not only at the Ministry of Human Resources, because for example, the Honvéd Hospital is located at the defence wallet, the important thing is that it comes to 5.7 percent of GDP instead of 10 percent of the EU average. Education. Indeed, the EU average is 4.7 percent. In this budget, in each chapter, I have sought out the educational activity, so I have not only sought out the source of education institutions but also all kinds of education, and we can still speak of only 3 percent compared to 4.7 percent of the EU average. In retirement, the EU average is 11 per cent, and we manage 7.6 per cent. We know we're looking at 2 percent defense policy, but we're at 1.4 percent right now. Support for municipalities in proportion to GDP of 1.7 percent is terrible. It belongs to the daily well-being of 9 million 700 thousand people to provide sufficient resources for municipalities. Support for small businesses: we are at 1 percent. The GDP ratio in EU countries is 4-5 percent. Technological development, where the government has said for a very long time that it needs to be a 3 percent target and that is what the EU calls for, because without technological development, we cannot run a competitive economy. We can't reach 3 percent! We're at 0.8 percent. Thus culture; culture should be given at least 0.8 per cent; we are 0.25 per cent. And then the total amount of child protection and social policy is HUF 502 billion for the entire country with this 1 percent GDP ratio very low. So I wanted to emphasise these here because anyone who wanted a budget to improve their well-being, even in a crisis situation, could not have deviated from these priorities. We can compare the plans for three years:.19,.20, and here is the budget of.21. But we still don't know the numbers for the last closed year. Although the former Secretary of State said to my fellow Member, Mr László Varju, that if you wanted to, you could look at the numbers 19 and 19 because every month the reports will be drawn up, but I would ask why, if on 10 June, the Secretary of State says that we can find the numbers 19 and start from the results when we are talking about 21, we can only ask why the closing account cannot be submitted so far. I think that once I can influence this issue, there is no budget for the next year until the closure of a closed year is completed, because we do not know what the figures from which we can start for the third year are. I would like to indicate, when we are talking about the sovereign debt ratio, in this current fiscal law, that the debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to be 72,6 per cent on the last day of 2020. That's what's in this proposal. Yes, but when it was the 2020 Budget Act, it had a debt ratio of 65.5 per cent by 31 December 2020. However, I would have expected that when Secretary of State Banai performed his expo, which I watched on television, he would have told me that from 65,5 suddenly on the last day of the same year, 72,6 percent was not little. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: He was in the Expoze!]] I'm glad that at least they realized that 65.5 percent wasn't justified. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: The Minister of Finance told me in the expozee! The president's ringing the bell.]] But we've been listening to everyone very quietly. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: No!]] The point is, though it is true that we have not yet been through a terrible crisis, but, let's say, in the second half of the economy, and the economy has stopped, but I still think that 7 percent difference is not justified because of a few months of economic difficulties. I think that you liked to plan below 31 December 2020 and now it turns out that this is not going to work. [[To Banai Péter Benő:]] Although it is also true that you write that by 31 December 2021 you would like to bring 72.9 percent down to 69 percent. I'm reading it right, aren't I? That's what it says here. But I'm sure you'll be able to answer. I'm moving on because I don't have much time. I think that the budget with the municipal authorities is extremely step-by-step. When I read the following, it was a shock: the municipal government was only entitled to the payment of fines, allowances and revenue from the implementation costs related to the tax on motor vehicles. You know what that means? That the municipality is happy if someone doesn't pay these expenses in time, because then there's a tax and a fine, and there's all sorts of things. So you want to ask citizens not to follow norm by chance, pay it later, because then you will pass on the basic amount, and the bonus and the fine that will remain will remain with you. Don't be angry, but anyone who brings a budget with that attitude really doesn't take seriously what a country's life is all about. I just don't get it, by the way, that whoever figured that out was thinking it. The following: the local government solidarity contribution is 160 billion HUF in the heading. This is likely to be about the amounts collected by the municipality but cannot keep it with you. I think that it is in vain that the local government has been raised to HUF 857 billion by 2021 compared to HUF 20,739 billion, but this 160 billion is an incredible sum that they are losing, which is sure to create uncertainty. I am pleased that the Prime Minister's and associated team, those three cash-pushing machines, had their budget resources dropped by half this year, from 1552 billion to 734 billion. These are the Prime Minister's Office, the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister's Office and the Government Office of the Prime Minister's Office. I'm so glad you had to tighten your belt. I hope they don't start spending from another source. That's very good news. However, I am less pleased that the agricultural portfolio, compared to 218 billion, which is this year's budget, receives only 137 billion. I think that from the three associated cash-push machines, you could have found a source for the agricultural purse. On the one hand, due to extremely bad weather conditions, agriculture's difficulties need to be overcome in some way by means of budgetary resources, and agriculture is an outbreak point for many people in the crisis. I certainly wouldn't have reduced the agricultural resources. I'm surprised at István Nagy, I'm sure he struggled not to, but unfortunately, he did. There is one end to a hundred words, and I am pleased with the establishment of the Economic Protection Fund, because there is a framework of money that is likely to solve all the problems caused by the crisis, both health and economic degradation, but I am sure that it will not be easy to keep this budget, either on the revenue side or on the other hand, a multitude of the necessary costs will arise. I want a man on his feet who can do this. I'm the one who's rooting for the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of independents.]]
u2020-06-10-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I'll give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu first. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-10-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Local governments were also mentioned in particular here. It is very short in two minutes, but let me mention it: so that a budget can be negotiated, as we discuss the state budget, and a municipality cannot negotiate it. The Mötv. as well as the five in front of him. It also required the establishment of a single committee, the budget committee, and the budget committee to see all financial flows, each amendment of the budget to be brought to the Committee. Are you doing this to give the parliamentary budget committee this rank, that the committee itself may participate in the preparation of the budget, or not because it has a different colour? But this has always been the case, so he was president of the Fidesz Financial Committee when the left was on the government, and of course there was a Court of Auditors committee. But let's say the Committee on Economics, which is now favored, I don't see its president here, but the chairman of the Committee on Budgets is here. I was able to mention these ten years and the results of the ten years. Annex XV is amended as follows: I was also president of the Budapest municipal association, and I know these ten years well. [[18.10]] I think that the municipalities are not the winners of the ten years, but the big losers. Just consider that the withdrawal of personal income tax is now one of the great successes of the ten years, taking huge money from the municipalities, while 27 percent of the VAT has become. I think another line could be listed. You've listed a line. That line sounds like what you said. I believe that we should always look at a budget from two sides, including the last ten years. [[Applause from DK and Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-10-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-85	Mr President, Dear House, We are in the middle of a very long day now, perhaps, if we look at the timeframes. There is a debate between us in many ways, but there is a better amendment on which I think there should be some consensus, just because it is not a political issue. We may agree that the family tax relief for born children is an idea, although it does not come from Hungary, and it has not been introduced here for the first time, which can be positive and can be surrounded by absolute agreement. That is why we have tabled an amendment which is, on the one hand, unclear why we are talking about fixed amounts for several years and why they do not at least follow inflation. On the one hand, we would like to adjust this. So, since this was introduced, inflation-weighted means of providing meaningful family tax relief. I would be at least as interested in the Secretary of State, since 2010, we can count on a rather good and moderate cumulative inflation, why is it that a form of discount is introduced, and then let half and a third of that disappear over the years. If I think there's some consensus around that it's a good achievement, it's a good decision, and you're campaigning with it, it appears among its rhetorical elements, then why are you letting it go? So I'm getting you to look for budgetary resources, and it's easy to find, by the way, by redeploying the amount of a pyramid or visual investment, it would be possible to solve the extent to which the maximum amount of tax relief for children can be used, so don't inflate this annual inflation every year, and don't reduce the amount of this every year. I do not understand why you did not do this, why you are not campaigning with this, but the amendment is in, I ask for your respectful support, because we would like to improve one of your otherwise positive measures. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-10-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-06-10-87	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Just what happens on the left, if Andrea Varga-Damm was actually watching the expo, she could have confused Mihály Varga and Péter Banai with Benő, but I don't think we should talk about it, because it's not a big deal. I would like to mention a few words about the fact that Congressman László Hajdu had a notary, who was a minister not so long ago, he was the Minister of the Interior, after 2006, true, at a party-active conference he said about the municipalities and the 2006 municipal achievements: calm down, we know our business. You knew that, fellow Members. Those municipal withdrawals, right, there were no withdrawals, they were only assigned to the municipalities, which resulted in a HUF 1300 billion deficit of the municipalities that you imposed on these municipalities. How can we compare this situation, my fellow Members? The way we compare it is that, at the moment, municipalities are receiving more money nominally, and of course they are taking their share of the emergency. It's a bit strange in the Gyurcsány Party, obviously, that the chairman of the Committee on Budgets can't give a keynote speech, but the party president comes here and fills the House's head with some nonsense. We've gotten used to this, too, but it's none of our business. I tell Tamás Bellozó and Róbert Dudás that these two are indeed the difference between the local government world. That's a bit of a smile when Lajos Oláh talks about the area behind Westend. I don't know, remember, in 2008, for 142 billion forints, the then government wanted to take the government quarter for 142 billion forints, and they spent 10 billion forints on nothing. It's just a dream for luck, and I hope it stays that way with a lot of others. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-06-10-88	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. There's another round of speeches. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Csaba Nagy. Here you go.
u2020-06-10-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Listening to today's debate, if I may, I would like to group what I would like to say about the draft budget law around two or three issues. I think, since we are talking about family support and tax incentives, we should definitely talk about this. I know a lot of people think it's a chewed-up bone, but in my opinion, we're after and during a series of very, very important social policy decisions, and it's one of the eminences of government decisions that appears in the family support system. If you look at the draft budget law, in 2021 you will find HUF 2295 billion at this address. This is HUF 67 billion more than the amount planned for 2020. The figure that shows how big this increase has been in the last ten years is also spectacular: 1360 billion forints. It is easy to read from the draft budget law that we will spend HUF 352 billion on tax incentives for families. You may have heard it many times, my fellow Members, but I think that in such a debate it is necessary to say this: in the case of a child, 10 thousand forints a month a month, in the case of the second child 20 thousand forints a month per child, and if there are three or more children in the family, 33 thousand forints a month is the tax relief that families receive per child. I think it's important that the first married couple's discount has appeared, which is due to the newlyweds for 24 months. I also think it is very important that, like the budget of 20, the budget of the 21st budget includes the tax relief of mothers with four or more children, which is now rising to HUF 24 billion compared to the year 2020. If we look at the family support system, which I think we should go through, the baby shower support is now included in the 2021 budget in the order of HUF 67.5 billion. It can also be seen that this programme is very popular, because when compared to 2020 there is a significant increase. If we look at the support that families receive in addition, I think it can be said here in the Parliamentary Chamber and at professional conferences that perhaps no one has thought about how popular the car purchase discount for large families will be. Nearly HUF 15 billion has been set by the draft budget. I have to say, we are often approached by MEPs by the fact that the decision of the government and Parliament to retire after 40 years of employment was considered very, very important. I didn't realize this was gonna be such a popular program. The country will spend 302 billion forints on this in the coming budget year. I consider it important to support children's meals. Members who live in a constituencies where poverty may be represented in a greater proportion than in an average constituencies know that such support for children's food support is very important, because it is in the country's programme and legislation that families who have three or more children, those who receive regular child protection support, permanently ill families and families who care for children with disabilities and families with low incomes are actually given free meals, not only during the year, but also during the winter, summer and autumn holidays. The country will spend 86 billion forints on this. I also consider it a very important thing, since every fall, when primary schools started operating, it was a very heavy burden for the parents of children going to school to pay the price of books. [[18.20]] This program started in 2012, and now it's out of control, and we're going to spend 13.5 billion forints. And those who go to school and talk to parents know that in a large part of schools there is a school milk program and there is a school fruit program, and we will spend 6.5 billion forints overall. It may still be worth saying about the baby shower program that by the end of 2021, a total amount of HUF 1400 billion will be available to families as a free-to-use resource, so I hope that this programme will achieve its goal in this regard, because we see that young people, married people, are basically contributing to this issue, that this support they receive from the state, is a support that encourages them to plan their own lives in all aspects. The following topic, which I would like to address in any case, is the Hungarian village programme. Attila Gelencsér has already spoken about the programme of modern cities. I would like to talk about the programme of the Hungarian village, because I think that this will be a very important programme element in our budget in 2021, and it will affect HUF 90 billion. In 2018, the need to launch this programme was raised by the Prime Minister. For my part, if I consider the period since the change of regime, I think that this is the first programme that builds from Hungarian sources and effectively sets goals that the mayors of Hungarian settlements, the representatives of local governments, the Members of Parliament and the experts have actually worked together. I have not met such an effective programme for the distribution of European Union funds or for other Hungarian programmes, and I think it is very important that every year there are several forums where the work and refining of this programme can be done by listening to each other's opinions. And if you'll excuse me, some data. In 2019 applications could be submitted from 16 support areas, and in 19 of the 2873 municipalities, which were entitled to apply, 97.4 percent of them applied and 5321 successful applications were announced. Here the grant contracts have been signed, and I would like to emphasise once again that this is a 100 percent funded tender, from the Hungarian government's own resources. All the grant contracts, who were entitled and able to do so, were able to prepare the tender file, could receive this grant contract, and the last tender will run out in 2020 this year. Perhaps, if you'll allow me, one or two examples, really just for listing, and a little in response to opposition, left-wing criticism. For example, a thousand villages won the tender in healthcare, cost more than 6.1 billion forints in these villages. Here we were able to renovate mostly medical supplies and various medical offices. The service of village and folklore has started and continued. This was important because the government's decision-making mechanism itself extended the number of settlements that could be launched and 339 settlements could buy a new village bus. And if we look at the activities of these village buses, in this few months of distress, I think that these buses, as well as the staff of the village and folklore service, and the staff of the municipalities, have done an incredible job. The interesting thing is that, while we were always talking about solutions in the countryside in small towns, we saw a city as big as possible, especially if we were talking about the capital, we were always able to talk about a kind of misconception with the mayors, because while in the countryside, in the village, the problems were solved, the problems were magnified here in Budapest and in some major cities, and instead of solving it, they would have sought a solution as if they had started politicalising in this respect. It is also important to me that in several other systems kindergartens, kindergartens, municipal buildings, village houses and community spaces have been able to be renewed. I also think it is important that, with regard to local identity, various programmes could be supported by the system of the Hungarian village, and I must say that even a few years ago, we did not think that a part of the village mayors would contact the representatives in relation to machinery parks for the maintenance of public space, because it was not a settlement where the number of public workers and civil servants had fallen to a level that had already made it impossible to perform the tasks and to shape the village image. So it was also a very, very popular program during this period. What is still to be said here, in conjunction with the budget law of 2021, is that the village road base will renovate nearly HUF 100 billion in 19-20. Here I always say that there is a great deal of criticism about the Hungarian road network about politics, politics at all times, and these criticisms are justified. But if we think about how much we have spent on Hungarian road networks over the past 30 years, I have to say that the replacement of this 20-30-year lag is obviously not going to go from one year to the next. And it is also a fact that in this respect it can be seen how, for example, in the last 10 years, Magyar Közút Nonprofit Zrt. and its county legs have tried to provide additional funds for the current budget. What I see is that we can cut grass more often this year than, say, 10 years ago, and I see that the number of machinery parks is also increasing significantly. In 2020 we will support Nonprofit Zrt. by more than HUF 400 million in order to obtain machine chains where they can also perform large surface hull repairs. This year we will be able to spend nearly 300-400 kilometers and 450-600 kilometers according to the draft budget law. There is still a need to talk about the village CSOK in this system, because I think that when the Hungarian government introduced the CSOK in 2016, we did not think that the CSOK will be extended for the period 1 July 2019 and 30 June 2022, and that the people thinking in the rural settlement will be given new opportunities with a village name CSOK. This means nearly 2500 settlements, where an extra HUF 5 million can be spent on renovation, modernisation, extension of existing buildings, depending on the number of children, and from 1 January 2020 and this budget of 2021 includes a tax refund of HUF 5 million for families, couples who are thinking about settling down in rural areas. Here's some data I'd like to tell you. A total of 4337 contracts were concluded for the combined aid, and it is also interesting that 44 percent of these contracts involved families with 3 children. In addition, 3269 contracts were concluded for the modernisation of existing dwellings until 30 April of the year. The budget for 2021 also includes the "Hungarian Village" programme, and it is obvious that we will be meeting with applications similar to this year, since this year the medical equipment application, the development of medical clinics application and the medical service apartment will be launched again this year. And I'd like to stop here for a moment, because a lot of people have said that these calls will not be able to be filled effectively. In my constituency, a bid like this was received in Sellyén, according to the mayor's information, and we are trying to seduce a doctor from Pécs to the edge of the Ormans, our small town on the border. [[18.30]] The tender was for the renovation of municipal roads, bridges, municipal sidewalk construction, renovation, community space transformation, community space building and employment, the purchase of public space maintenance equipment and the development of kindergarten playgrounds and community playgrounds, which were actually launched for mayor proposals. Let me tell you two more things about the countryside. One is that there is also an economic security fund included in the budget law. I would like to say that the epidemic situation here, the epidemic situation there, left-wing criticisms there, left-wing criticisms there, the economic protection package, which now has its results, includes that companies can apply up to EUR 800 for investments that can protect jobs and create new ones. I think it is very important that, in such a budget situation, we can start investments with companies worth HUF 377 billion. And all of this is an investment that I have come to know, which will increase the competitiveness of companies, which will help to protect jobs, and will also help to open the market not only to Hungary but also to Europe in this 806 companies. I am particularly pleased that this investment is carried out at 948 locations, of which 722 are not capitalised. And another reflection for Krisztina Hohn, who is not here, so I apologize. He was mayor of Baranya in a settlement that was really in a very difficult budget situation. When he was mayor, I was a county president, and we were the ones who helped the settlement, for example, we took over the cost of planning tasks in the framework of an EU proposal. I can't use a word other than that Brenner Koloman has also told us nonsense, who has started to talk about the excuse for the expression that our budget is ruining rural Hungary, that there are no more cultural houses, there are no more libraries. In my county, Baranya, Csorba Győző Library, located in the county seat, has two library buses, which provide services in 66 settlements. There are nine so-called supply units, Sellie, Szigetvár, Szentlőrinc, Sásd and other five settlements. There are 219 information and community places here, i.e. a village library and internet access. If you add 219 and 66, you get a number of 285 settlements where the library service is available every week. There are 300 settlements outside Pécs in Baranya County. I think it would be good for our opposition and left-wing colleagues to get acquainted with the Hungarian reality. One last thought: as a pro-government representative, I obviously think that putting forward such a budget after a pandemic is a very professional challenge, but you can also see that this planning is very realistic, so I recommend that all my fellow Members on the opposition side also consider adopting it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-91	Mr President, Dear House, Among the two or three production reports, I see that my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP, who were before me, also received the communication panels. Yes, they must be left-wing and wash the opposition together, eating and sacrificing the rest of the professionalism. It's a little difficult to receive a lecture from those who, unlike me, were related to the Liberal International, I wasn't the vice president of it, I wasn't part of it, I didn't leave the Trianon Memorial, did I, my grinning fellow Member, but the prominents of your party, and I wasn't in the top management of my party, KIS Secretarys, former communist functionaries, were I? Then we'll get through this. If, on the other hand, we want to tax the profession, at least to a minimum, then it would be worth reaching an agreement on certain issues. I am the one who usually summons the non-existent spirit of László Nyikos during the budgetary debates, but in a much more unprofessional way, I try to bring his thoughts here in order to resolve certain doubts. The timing of this bill has been mentioned many times today. Mr Secretary of State is a personality with excellent qualities, who has been involved in discussions on a professional basis even at more peaceful times, but I also miss the professional reason for suggesting that budget planning without closure would be acceptable. If we do not have a closed previous period, which we have assessed on the basis of various professional criteria, it is much harder to plan for the next period. What's the best way to light this up? For example, by setting the basis for budget planning in terms of HUF/euro exchange rate. Secretary of State, the budget for 2021 is planned on an annual average of HUF 356, including the USD exchange rate. That could mean more than one thing. On the one hand, it can mean that, compared to the previous exchange rate level, you practically accept, you acknowledge the permanent weakening of the forint exchange rate. It's a certificate of your government. Obviously, the meeting point often determines the position, but with objective professional standards it is possible to say that the adoption of a lower forint price is not necessarily good for the population, the price of which is typically paid by the public, building on imported products. In the case of the Secretary of State and my smartphone, this is about 30-40 thousand forints compared to an ideally imagined exchange rate, which was present in the national economy just like three or four years ago, but much more difficult for our fellow countrymen, in terms of imported vegetables, fruit and other goods, this represents a very serious item on an annual basis. The family register will certainly be burdened with what is, say, 13 months' pension in the next period, not arguing that any kind of benefit can help our retired countrymen. I see that the adoption of the EUR 356 exchange rate is a kind of surrender. If you take note of this and a continuous slippery discount will be the victim of Hungarian forints, then I understand that you can spend more forints from the development resources received in euro. I understand that this has already come in handy for you in the period of the epidemiological defense, as I recall that 19-20 percent of GDP was a source for the separation of a package planned over three years, which looks much better in euros than in a normal forint exchange rate. However, I also see that it is very difficult for you to plan next year's budget with an exchange rate of HUF 356, because if you just think back, Mr Secretary, where this exchange rate stood six months ago, what movements, what swings marked it, then I would argue that, at the beginning of the outbreak of an epidemiological crisis, we would be able to plan the effects, if any, on the release of the forint exchange rate in 2021. Don't let that happen, so no one thinks we're a back-up fan, because we're not at all, but there's no doubt that there's a risk of that. So much for timing and closing hours. By the way, I would like to note that the German budget for 2020 was approved by the Bundestag on 19 December 2019. So there are plenty of international examples that do not support you, but that are based on common sense. Clearly, it is not common sense that opposition amendments are rejected and rejected, not individually, but in a block-by-block manner. It can be very unpleasant for a fellow Christian Democrat to reject a proposal of a demographic nature, in addition to, say, a reduction in VAT or a proposal concerning libraries. Of course, it can be said that what is opposition is already insane, but a sober cultural being doesn't say that and doesn't say that in any parliament in the world, at least as long as we imitate democracy. I would also like to say that there are lots of EUR 100 million in terms of the EU's commitment framework appropriations, not too detailed items, which, once again, are in the order of EUR 100 million, but we do not always see how much own resources are associated with all of this, what Hungarian taxpayers need to put in favour of meaningful developments where appropriate. In addition to such detail, it is not possible to make a fair, prudent professional decision. I don't want to call all this a collusive, fictional work, because I don't want to underestimate the work of those who have worked with this design, but I say that the work that has been put on the table is not necessarily well founded, at least for the outside viewer. At the same time, we do not receive a mass of information from the financial government on the change of state assets, the increase or decrease that may occur in that State. This is therefore part of the standard practice of world budget planning. I miss the same thing about the Hungarian budget. [[18.40]] I do not want to bore the Secretary of State with rules n-1 and n-2, from my colleague László Nyikos, I think that I have heard this a lot and a lot of times before, and I think that we are interested in this room, not underestimating anyone else's interest, but I certainly do not see the point of repeating the arguments that have been repeatedly said and perhaps seem too professional. If the Secretary of State responds to this lack of the n-2 rule, then, of course, I will be very pleased with that, but at the same time, not only did I grow out of the Romantic novels era, but I never really got into it. The fact is that at the same time we have more important and more meaty topics, one of which is the gross debt of the central budget. Here we argue a lot about GDP-related data, and I claim that there are arguments in favour of and against the claim that Hungary's position has improved or not. I can see that we have not made a lot worse or even improved in the environment of certain credit rating agencies, this is indisputable, but I also see that no breakthroughs and major changes have been made in the management of the debt equivalent to 34 000 billion HUF per year. When we first argued about this, it was around 1250, and then there was a year with a lower amount, but the scale was close to a thousand billion. My question to the Secretary of State is how you intend to go beyond this in the long term. Perhaps after ten years of debate, we can conclude that the Hungarian economy has failed to outgrow this debt. So what's the plan? It is very right, and I agree with you when, in connection with the legacy loan offered by Soros, you say that no one should beat themselves into permanent loans, no matter how low the repayment obligation is, I think the difference is that I fought the units of the Soros network in the 1990s, you didn't join this fight a little later, but the fact is that this doesn't excuse you from the fact that there is no real change in your sovereign debt management. Mr Secretary, if you fail to outgrow this debt, if you do not touch other creative management tools, then this is a debt for the same eternity as you rightly criticize. How, then, do you intend to change the management of this? After all, you can see that you have failed to outgrow what lies in front of you. With regard to a 6.9 percent growth plan, in the case of the development of net average earnings, I have to say that we have a very optimistic estimate, since 1.6 million Hungarian citizens are missing data from various measurements of wages. Typically, we are talking about micro-enterprises with less than five employees, mainly micro-enterprises and a part of individual businesses, which simply miss this part of budget planning, as far as average earnings are concerned, and if we were to weigh this figure with 1.6 million employees, active, existing people, we would see that the average wage levels are even lower than the alarmingly low, and in a regional comparison Hungary is going all the way back on the basis of this data, which is why I would like to encourage you to be cautious when they sing praises about economic performance. I don't want to be harshly simplistic about transferring Hungarian wages to euros, but you would find the lowest figures of the whole region in terms of Hungarian wages at the bottom of the list. I know this would be a harsh simplification, but I say that the slow rise and approximation of the Hungarian wage level to the western average must be started. One of the keys to this, Mr Secretary of State, may be in the public sector, where tools frozen for many years should be touched and at least inflation monitored. The other serious instrument could be the renegotiation of strategic contracts signed with multi-company companies, where by setting up an appropriate state background it could be achieved that these companies do not try to base their competitive advantage on the fact that Hungarian wages are sufficiently low, that is not Hungary's outstanding advantage, and that is not the flexible labour code. To this end, however, I think that we need to take joint action, which is something that will be respected by governments of any color in the future, even if Hungary no longer has a Fidesz-KDNP government, and even if it is in any composition. In this respect, I liked the fact that, in the Fundamental Law, the intentions of the debt ratio were fixed; I would very much like it if they did the same with the elements of family support, which would at least make the family tax relief available to children a follow-up to inflation. However, I would also like to see the settlement of the Hungarian wage level not as a competitive advantage from such a low wage level on one side of the paper, but as a goal, the slow, durable but secure increase and increase of Hungarian wages. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-10-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Balla. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-10-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, As we have already heard, the budget for next year will have more money for almost every important purpose than it has been this year or the previous years. More money for health care, education, more for pensions, defence, culture, more money for family support, and 16 percent more central support for municipalities than a year ago. For a moment here, I would like to join or join Mr Csaba Nagy's thoughts on the programme of the Hungarian village, in particular, and there were some critical voices here in the opinions on the left. In my district, West Nógrád, from 82 eligible settlements, 76 settlements were successful only in connection with the 2019 tender sources, which meant that 76 settlements were able to implement some development in their territory, including a settlement of 120 people, including, where appropriate, a settlement of 2300 people or even 4 thousand people. I trust that this programme, which will continue in 2020 and will be planned to be such a Hungarian village in 2021, will be able to provide further local authorities with an opportunity for development that will help them to maintain their population, stay there and find a place; at all, any development that will reach these settlements through the Hungarian village programme will help in presenting the beauty of rural life or in everyday life. The main point here is that regardless of what mayor is in the settlement, the settlements are organized in a row and developments are created through the Hungarian village programme, which helps people in their daily lives. I have spoken from several areas, but as Vice-President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I would also like to talk a little bit about foreign affairs, the financial situation for foreign affairs or financial and budgetary opportunities, especially because the epidemiological period has also caused a crisis management or epidemiological crisis management situation in the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, which has proved that it will be important to support this ministry and to increase further budget support in the following year. What we know is that the epidemic is coming down, many people say that this is the first wave of the epidemic, we do not know when, how, in what form the second wave can arrive, what its effects will be, but what we need to know is that in recent months, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been at the forefront of the procurement of protective equipment, the purchase of various medical devices. We have also seen that the tasks of the Ministry have also increased as a result of the epidemic, and in addition to acquiring protective equipment from abroad, there has been a situation where Hungarian citizens trapped abroad had to help our consular services come home. And we cannot forget that, in order to resolve the restrictions, the various restrictions, for example in border police, at borders, it was very important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was able to agree bilaterally with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the other side. We are now at the point that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been going through an epidemiological crisis management period in which it has shown that it will also be important to spend more money on the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the next period. [[18.50]] This is also included in the budget, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' operating budget is increasing beyond inflation, and the Ministry's central administration receives HUF 1.3 billion more than this year, which corresponds to an increase of 8 percent. Nearly 620 million HUF will be spent on IT developments and other procurements, as well as the operation of the European Youth Centre in Budapest. About 1,500 diplomats on foreign services will have more than 3.5 billion forints available this year, an increase of approximately 6 percent. It is worth noting here that in the last ten years the government has not only made a significant wage increase in education and health, but also in the case of diplomats, because if you look at the fact that, for example, compared to 2010, the salary of a career-starting educator has increased by 80 percent, the average salary of the paramedics has increased by 130 percent compared to the time of the left-wing governments in 2010, when we return to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, you can see that in 2010 there was HUF 21.6 billion in the budget that includes the personal benefits of the foreign service providers, today it is almost HUF 58.2 billion. This means that diplomats also have a lot of appreciation, and a number of appropriations are included in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, which also represents important improvements. For example, the preparation of the renovation of our Embassy in Vienna, the infrastructure development necessary for the opening of the Embassy in Biskeki and the Consulate General in Gdańsk. The Information Office can manage with more than HUF 2 billion, or 13 percent more money next year than it did this year. Of these 2 billion, 880 million HUF will be the wage increase, and around 1 billion HUF is available for the purchase of various IT tools. Last year, the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme was included in the State Department's budget, which aims to give greater attention to the most difficult national part, Csángóföld. During the first year of the programme, a number of real estate developments took place, and next year the focus will be on operating expenditure, and accordingly these subsidies will increase significantly from 600 million to 1.5 billion forints. The budget of Stipendium Hungaricum, established by the Orbán government for many years, will remain unchanged compared to this year, HUF 33 billion, but this programme also contributes significantly to the financing of the functioning of the participating higher education institutions through the increase in the number of self-paid students. As regards the Ministry's external economic activities, export development, the institutional system of investment promotion, i.e. the Hungarian Export Development Agency, the National Investment Agency and the Central European Economic Development Network will receive the same support next year as this year, adjusted by the inflation planned for 3 percent. The three major economic development funds managed by the Ministry, the investment promotion target, cross-border economic development support and the envelope for tied aid lending, have been transferred to the Economic Protection Fund for economic recovery and employment growth. This is also important because, even in the current period, in these days, it can be seen that this is a major decision in the current situation, since the foreign companies that came to the country through HIPA and a large investment of high added value in Hungary, as well as a coordinated investment promotion target that stimulates and promotes job creation by attracting skilled workers, will remain unchanged next year. But it can be seen that this year's additional economic protection aid means a great deal to businesses in different regions, whether small or medium-sized enterprises or businesses where 300-4000-500 people work. For example, in West Nógrád, in my district, in the industrial areas of meadows and Balassagyarmat, where it can be said that a significant export capacity, economic life of the county has been and is still taking place. The fact is that over the past period, the government has been able to help reduce the number of orders in two ways. On the one hand, it was able to help these businesses to secure jobs from a job protection point of view, and on the other hand, there were businesses who thought they were moving forward and, through a development, not only trying to maintain jobs, develop technology, and, where appropriate, to create up to 30-40-50 jobs in a 300-person plant, and, on the other hand, to create, say, a European centre in a particular sector, and, say, to do it on a Rétvány, or to a company that is important in the manufacture of auto parts, where 250-300 people are working, helping to develop there, better survive this period by keeping jobs and expanding employment opportunities, and, while also making improvements that are essential for the people living there in job creation, business development and supplier capacity. Think of the fact that West Nógrád or Nógrád county is basically not at the top of the statistics, it is essentially a difficult county, but perhaps few people know that today, thanks to companies with their headquarters and establishments here, industrial production per capita in Nógrád county is in the middle of the country in such an approach, and it can also be seen that it is one of the counties and regions where unemployment has decreased by half and a third in the last ten years. And to do so, such economic development and economic promotion subsidies mean a great deal, since they help to preserve exactly the jobs that these companies have created in the last 5-10-12 years. It is also worth knowing that next year, with the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these are economic development programmes which, I trust, will provide a secure basis for the companies here, with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or, where appropriate, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. There is also an important part of tied aid lending that we usually do in countries far away from us. This is, let's say, an EU requirement, to participate in international development packages, but the portfolio plans for this, which also means that in countries where different programmes are available, they not only give Hungarian businesses the opportunity to gain ground, but also basically help to improve Hungary's reputation through these tied aid programmes. Finally, one more important point is worth mentioning about the budget for the following year: Hungary will be holding two major positions next year. In May we will take the Presidency of the Council of Europe, then in July the four of Visegrád, the former half and the latter for a year. Both go far beyond the task of protocol, which not only allows for an increase in the visibility of our country, but also the representation of Hungarian priorities, national and national political interests, so both can be considered as one of the priority tasks of next year, and this is the case in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, They may show that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is prepared for the challenges of the post-coronal virus epidemic world, and that, on the basis of next year's budget, everything is given to cope successfully with the challenges that arise there. Thank you very much for your attention. [[19.00]]
u2020-06-10-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-06-10-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Madam Secretary! Dear fellow Members, I'd like to comment on the health section. I hoped that Secretary Ildikó Horváth would stay, but she must have left. There have been significant changes in the structure of the budget, and this also affects the health volume. This change is two-way. On the one hand, certain items that have so far been separate have disappeared, such as contributions on personal benefits, but there have been nearly the same increases in personal benefits, so there is reason to believe that these two lines have been merged. Similar mergers have been made in terms of material and other expenditures, but similar mergers can occur throughout the volume, which makes it significantly difficult to get to know the details of the budget. Another significant structural change is to be found in the Health Insurance Fund, which has been renamed the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund. This change is both misleading and worrying. It is misleading, on the one hand, because it may seem that the government is spending a great deal on the defense fund, as the government spends just a little more than HUF 29 000 billion on the fund, but only HUF 30 billion on operating expenses and HUF 141 billion on operating revenues are calculated by the Anti-CDC Fund. The remainder is the expenditure already included in the Health Insurance Fund, although the central reserve is included in the heading. In this respect, the name is misleading. However, there is concern that, according to the chapterary justification of the central reserve for the control of the epidemic, located within the CDC, the central reserve for the control of the epidemic is an appropriation for the prevention and control of the human epidemic causing a mass disease endangering the safety of life and property, in order to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. On this basis, the possibility of transferring funds to address the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic, which the government is constantly embracing, under the heading of chapter transfer, to reduce the costs of health insurance so far. There are some thoughts about the combined provision of medical-preventive care in relation to the budget. As regards preventive medical benefits, the sectoral human resources situation should first be examined. The proposal itself expects fewer staff for 2021, as while the institutions of preventive care in the case of public hospitals counted 79 369 as average statistical staff in the 2020 budget, this figure is only 78 673 persons in the 2021 budget, nearly 700 people less than in 2020. It is therefore not expected to halt the decline in the number of employees in the sector, despite the fact that one of the objectives of the EFOP in the field of health is to improve the human resources situation in healthcare systems. Here, my fellow Members, allow me to provide some information from some tables. By the way, I am talking about documents available on the website of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. It's got really good documents on it, and it's got charts on it that show us what's going on in health care today, and we're talking about doctors here. The dominant trend of basic medical care is the decrease in the number of active practices, the continuous increase in the number of unfilled practices. The growth of the latter can be seen as follows. In 2010 93 practices were still unfilled, in 2011 107, in 14 I will not list 170 years, in 2017 we can talk about 252 practices, in 2018 284, in June 2019 373, and in May 2020 we are talking about 433 unfilled practices in Hungary. What we can see is that the number of areas where citizens can obtain basic care is constantly decreasing. Our Fundamental Law provides that everyone has the right to adequate quality Hungarian health care, and we can now say that nearly one million people in Hungary do not have access to basic healthcare, the right basic health care. The other very important issue, and this is also available on the MOK website, is the age composition of the general practitioners, what age ageing is like in this profession. I would add that this should be said so that MOK members with GP skills can display this statistics: 2 percent of GPs under 35 years of age, 43 percent of GPs between 35 and 60 years of age, 55 percent of GPs over 60 years of age in Hungary today. This is a terrible trend, Mr. Secretary. And then let me talk about one more spreadsheet. It's the average age of the GPs. It would be very important for us to make progress in this, so that we can become the younger the general practitioners, because we are not only talking about unfulfilled practices, but also how the profession of the general practitioner is getting older. Unfortunately, the average age of GPs supplying adults in 2006 was only 53,3 years in 2015; this is 55.6 in 2015. The average age of pediatricians in 2006 was 54.1 years, and this was 58.9. And if we look at this mixedly, we look at all the general practitioners, then in 2006 there were 52 years of average age for GPs, pediatricians and adults, and in 2015 it was 55.7 years. If we knew the latest figures, I think we could now report that we have exceeded 60 years in the average age of all three categories. It's a very serious situation, and if we look at the hospital staff, we'll see that I think there's gonna be some brutal numbers like that. As regards medical-preventive benefits, the sector's human resources situation must first be examined, I have already said that, and I have already told you the data. The fact that the wage development required by the Hungarian Medical Chamber is not present in the 2021 budget does not change the improvement of the human resources situation in the sector. In the case of medical and preventive care institutions, there is only a HUF 17 billion increase in the 2021 budget compared to the 2020 budget, which represents only a 4% increase, with no possibility of raising wages. From the wage increase proposed by the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the Chamber would expect both the exodus of doctors to be stopped and the release of gratuity money. According to the Hungarian Medical Chamber, wage increases should be closed in 2021, so the potential wage increases should appear in the budget. Another interesting feature of the proposal is that the 2021 budget lacks renovations and investments in relation to the healing-preventive care line. In the area of basic supply, it is worth drawing attention to a number of aspects, such as why these amounts are missing from the 2021 budget. [[19.10]] If we are talking about GPs and we are trying to stop the removal of GPs, thus endangering the right of Hungarian citizens to access basic health care, then all we can say, Mr State Secretary, is that we must accept the proposals of the profession and spend money, money and money on health care. There is only one way to estimate the workers: to pay these people properly. Let me also talk about today's news because, unfortunately, time is running out, and my fellow Member would also like to say what the epidemic has caused in Hungary in health care. We have repeatedly said to our fellow Members that, after 14 March, the basic care in Hungary has almost been stopped, hospital care has stopped, and basically the health care of Hungarian people has almost ceased in Hungary on the basis of the epidemic. The Tarki, if I remember correctly, made a public opinion poll by the Tarki, and every 10 people in it said that they themselves had experienced that they had not received the health care they would have had the right to receive. I've already told you this right is provided for by the Fundamental Law, and the other is that we pay serious tax dollars as citizens in order to get a service that we have the right to have. Yesterday I asked Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, who should be sued today in Hungary, that millions of people for months had not obtained the service they would pay for. This has serious consequences. Data came out today, and let me list the serious consequences of the fact that the Hungarian people did not receive the care after months and years. In February, 10,669 people, our fellow countryman, were waiting for cataract surgery, and now 1887 are waiting. It doesn't mean that the problem is gone, and these people's problem is gone, but that these people, the difference, are almost 8,000. Man couldn't get access to cataract surgery, he didn't get this service. The number of people waiting for knee replacement surgery is 884, and in February we talked about 5508 people. There are currently 1555 people waiting for hip replacement surgery, 3529 in February. Open-heart surgery, Mr. Secretary, 50 people are waiting, 663 people were waiting in February. 663! Gynaecological surgery, which is not a cancer, because it doesn't have 1 person waiting, according to the available data, 431 people were waiting in February. There are 660 people waiting for a heart catheter now, 1446 was in February. If we add up the numbers and I could list them for a long time, about 14,000 patients have disappeared from the system, and not because, I say, emphasized, because they are cured or their problems have passed, but because of the Covid virus, they did not have access to the basic service they have the right to provide. I was talking about some serious diseases here; it could take months. And if you look at it, these data show that, say, in Miskolc, at the university teaching hospital, you have to wait more than two years for a varicose vein surgery in the current situation. Over two years! But I could tell you that. There are surgeries in some parts of the country that have to wait five years in the current situation. These patients will now fall on health care, which is already in poor condition, and we see that the recommendations of the profession have not been received by the government for years. We negotiate budgets every year. I told Mr. Secretary of State last year, I told you here, that the Medical Chamber proposed 700 billion forints, that this amount of extra money should be put into the budget as an immediate intervention, it did not happen. We're still seeing that for the next year, too. We will continue tomorrow, Mr. Secretary, because there is more to talk about in the field of health. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2020-06-10-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the secretary of state. Madam Secretary of State, Eszter Vitályos.
u2020-06-10-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to reflect on Mr Lajos Oláh's earlier speech with a few thoughts. Mr Kásler asked in his speech what is the situation at Péterfy Hospital and what is the situation with mammographic screenings. Thanks to the government's actions, the economic situation of Péterfy Hospital has been consolidated over a long period of time due to the bad decisions of the MSZP government. This means that in 2019 the hospital received HUF 440 million as a traumatic fixed fee, HUF 118 million as an add-on in 2020, and today the hospital director-general indicated to the medical area that after a long time, its long-term debt had finally disappeared. As far as hospital developments are concerned, I think it is also good news in this regard that the program "Efficient Budapest" includes the hospital on two development lines: the Péterfy Hospital is included with HUF 20.4 billion in terms of construction and renovation, and HUF 10.6 billion in terms of medical technology developments. As regards the protocol and justification of mammographic screenings, I think that, on request, Minister Kásler will certainly provide further training to interested parties on this subject, since he himself initiated the introduction of screening in the cancer control programme in 1993. If anyone, then I think that Minister will certainly understand, feel, and be happy to instruct you on this subject. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-98	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Philip Erik.
u2020-06-10-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, For me, the love of animals and our environment is an inseparable part of patriotism, and as an animal protection and environmental politician, I have examined the draft budget for 2021 with this kind of eye. I would like to remind you that at the time of the adoption of last year's budget, this year, the current government and Parliament have allocated HUF 70 million to animal protection tasks, to support more than 300 animal protection organizations that try to cure, rescue, rescue and rehabilitate animals with daily hard work. This year, it was 70 million forints dedicated to trying to maintain, modernise and develop animal shelters, the pedigree settlements. The disposal of animals rescued by the authorities had to be made of this minimum amount, and it had to be used for spaying, informing the population and, of course, educating and educating the future generation, the current children, our young people, to love the animals. In comparison, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that only this year the National Council of Pálinka received more money than the Parliament intended for animal protection this year. I believe that Hungarian people love pálinka, but I have to say that they love animals even more, so we have to say that this amount was so humiliating and, unfortunately, I did not find a significant increase in these figures next year, that unfortunately, the Parliament, the current government, does not really have any idea of the state of animal protection in Hungary right now. I feel that if it weren't for the dedicated animal defenders, the dedicated volunteers, the generous offerings, the generous donors, then there could be an animal protection disaster in Hungary today. I dare say this because I'm sure you're aware that the shelters, the pedigree settlements are overcrowded, often operating at 200 percent. Unfortunately, there is no nationwide neutering action, only at local level. For all of this, there has been a huge unwanted overgrowth in Hungary, which almost resembles, or may refer to, the situation in the Balkans. [[19.20]] Unfortunately, we also have to mention that almost every day, such brutal animal torture crimes are raging the moods, entering the media, which shows that our current system, our current regulation, is not good. That is why we can say that there is a need for radical change in the area of animal protection. One of my proposed fiscal amendments points in this direction, which I have just mentioned, is that almost every day brutal, inhumane animal cruelty, mutilations, executions, shows that the current regulatory system is not good. In many cases, because of the pressure of the police, the perpetrators do not exist; in many cases, the police authorities acting do not have the skills to prepare a material, whether for the prosecution or for the courts, from which animal torturers could be judged in a worthy manner. Therefore, I think that it is no longer possible to wait for the animal police to be set up, so one of my amendments proposes that animal police be set up as a separate organisation. There are international examples of this either in the United States or in the Netherlands, and such initiatives will also be seen in Romania, which we have often pitied next year. It is also important to point out that this year's HUF 70 million or similar amount is so small in support of animal welfare organisations, to support more than 300 NGOs, foundations, non-profit organisations and associations that face significant problems every day. I have also stressed this on several occasions that unfortunately, because of the coronal virus epidemic, they have become increasingly difficult, and really only because of the volunteers' own offerings, the commitments of generous donors, they can survive and carry out their sacrificial activities at the moment. So in my amendment proposal, I proposed to the Honourable Parliament that, by HUF 200 million, this could mean an extraordinary increase next year, with which we could support it and create a safer cooperation between animal and civil society organisations for these organisations. It is also important to note that one point or starting point of the current problem is the unwanted overgrowth, which can be traced back to the fact that there were no spaying programs at national level, one county, one settlement, one district, one district where any such exemplary initiative has been launched, but I think that it is essential for the Hungarian government to try to prevent this unwanted overgrowth in a national neutering action. Therefore, my third amendment concerned this, and I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to separate HUF 200 million. My fourth amendment is the education and education of the future generation, in particular the love and protection of animals and our environment. At present, there are charitable NGOs, animal protection organisations, environmental organisations that try to get into kindergarten, school groups, classes, and there they try to educate and educate the growing generation, but I think that this is a little, and unfortunately, these organisations are burdened to such a level that there is no national impact on their blessed and sacrificial work. So I would like to ask the Parliament and the honourable Government to allocate a minimum amount of HUF 50 million in support for this kind of activity for next year. I have a child, a little girl, just like many of you have children, grandchildren, and I think that there is no need to draw attention, or to describe that perhaps one of the most wonderful feelings of the world is when we see the kind of childish love that a person closest to us experiences, touches; and we can see not only the twinkle of a happy pair of eyes day by day, but also the twinkle of two eyes, because the kind of love an animal can give, I think, cannot be confused with anything. The amounts I propose represent a HUF 1.5 billion item, which, I believe, could represent a small point in the budget of the total budget of EUR 23 000 billion, but hundreds of thousands and even risk it, there are millions of Hungarian citizens who are animal-loving and environmental-minded, committed, well-intentioned and patriotic, for whom a HUF 1.5 billion item of very small points in the budget could mean a huge miracle and we could almost change the world with it. So on behalf of these millions of Hungarians, I would like to ask the Parliament and the Government with the utmost respect to support these amendments. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-10-100	Thank you, Congressman Philip Erik. I can't see two minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz, Fidesz.
u2020-06-10-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I am in a lucky position that, perhaps after the general debates of today, which have moved on quite wide spectrum, but rather towards the two extreme poles, I may be able to touch on a topic that makes many people's hearts beat, and everyone who lives in the countryside in Hungary or Budapest may understand and feel that tourism is our common cause, because our culture, built, our tangible heritage, our natural beauty or various manifestations are important to all of us, and as such we are talking about a prominent sector of the national economy. That is why it is important to look at what we look like in the world at the moment, what we look like in this time of distress, and see how the Hungarian government looks ahead in the spirit of this sector. If a small look back is allowed, I would like to present some important key data from 2019 that proves that the last ten years have been one of the success stories of this sector, since by taking the development into system, dealing with developments in a complex way through related infrastructure to attractions, attractions, attractions and everything that is part of this great cycle has been part of domestic development policy. In 2019 the number of guests reached 12.9 million in commercial accommodations, and the number of guest nights was close to 31.5 million. The proportion of foreign and domestic guests was balanced, and this is confirmed by the dynamic growth of domestic tourism in recent years, the same as abroad; last year, half of all guest nights, 15.8 million nights were spent by domestic tourists and 15.8 million by foreign guests in our country. The numbers are even more favourable by summing up the traffic data of the commercial and other hotels, according to which we can say that in 2019 16.5 million guests spent nearly 43 million guest nights in domestic accommodations. There is also a significant increase in total revenue data, an increase in accommodation revenues of commercial accommodations of 10.3 percent, and an increase of nearly 10 percent in total accommodation revenues compared to 2018. The SZÉP card, which supports the use of Hungarian tourism and its opportunities, has been used to close to HUF 31 billion, while the increase in SZÉP-card spending in the pensions was 34.4 percent and 46.5 percent in the hotels. What could all of this have resulted? The result could have been, as I said, a comprehensive, comprehensive development policy over the last ten years; this sector was partly domestic and partly EU-based. At both institutional and civil society organisations and local government level, there were countless organisations involved in this process, the result of which was an excellent achievement that we all proudly claimed ourselves, myself as a rural person, that the most attractive tourist destination in Europe was Budapest last year. What tourist developments have taken place in recent years, linked to EU terms? In the EU budget period 2007-13, some 1239 projects received more than HUF 336 billion of funding, which naturally attracted the possibility of additional funding, thus moving nearly HUF 500 billion in the Hungarian tourism type development round. [[19.30]] In the 2020 cycle, the total amount of HUF 500 billion was only domestic and additional EU funds, which will obviously result in a significantly higher amount in the overall budget and in the funds mobilised. In addition to the fact that the Hungarian tourism profession treats special destinations such as Lake Balaton, the surrounding area of Lake Balaton, such as the Sopron-Fertő tourist area, or to approach my homeland: Tokaj-Hegyalja, the Upper Tisza, the tourist attraction circle of Nyírség, this was complemented by the priority urban programmes that just the other day had a very important announcement. Minister Palkovics announced yesterday that Debrecen, as a major city in the region, will move 600 billion forints over the next ten years, with its intellectual and other economic energy, to achieve goals that will enrich tourism. What is the status of domestic tourism today? One of the most important is the Hungarian tourist destination, whose institutionalized character is the Hungarian Tourism Agency. The Agency itself has the resources to support attractions, various investments and developments. In addition, it is very important that tourism tax revenue, which also occurs locally and at a higher level, further enriches the possibility of using resources to feed the area of tourism development that needs reason and law. It is very important to say that we mention as a third leg the programme of modern cities, which has only recently been worth 2336 billion forints to be involved in this area, and this will be about 135 billion forints for the purpose of achieving tourism objectives at its development value. The Hungarian village program will further improve the attractiveness of the Hungarian village and its possibilities by providing its comfort. After all, part of the Hungarian village program is the renewal of roads, community facilities, health services and many other things that make Hungary a livable and habitable countryside. What's coming this year? This year, with the emergence of the corona virus, and this is not only a phenomenon in Hungary, but also in Europe and beyond, it is a world phenomenon that tourism was the first major area that suffered the emergence of the virus. By closing national borders, by shutting down the nations, and within it, by selecting, extending or living the duration of quarantine, he closed off its citizens who were interested in tourism. It is very important that which country is able to open its borders after disciplined protection, and Hungary has been at the forefront of this, as we have clearly been able to keep the number of diseases and the number of related deaths at a low level. Although the loss of all Hungarians is a serious loss to the country, we can make good results in international comparison. One of the most important messages for tourism participants is that if, by opening borders, the number of people using cross-border services will increase, primarily within borders, but as the various laws that hinder international movement will loosen up, the number of people using cross-border services will also increase. We want Hungarian values to come to the fore this year. We want Hungarian citizens to wonder over and over again about all the wonders we call the beauty of Hungary. It is no coincidence that we have been going on for years with a program called the Hungaricum Programme, which has no hidden purpose of registering it, trying to put together a value chain of everything that is important to us, and what is unique, which separates us from the sons of other nations and their virtues. These are our own prides, and they all participate in the great, great cycle of tourism. According to the World Tourism Organisation, an increase of 3-4 percent was expected in 2020 as a whole. Well, the new figures are already predicting a 20-30 percent decline in all related services, including accommodation, transport, logistics and all other hospitality related to tourism. One of Hungary's greatest losses in this regard is that the 400 thousand people who work in this sector have been put at risk in terms of their position as a result of significant GDP revenue from tourism. It was no accident that the government intended to contribute to the survival of the sector in the last few days, in recent weeks, with various facilitations, because we know precisely that if we go beyond the difficult days, people's interest will return. This is confirmed by increasing bookings, increasing interest in domestic services, be it the spa, be it active tourism, or be accommodation, the demand for all this has increased. Until 30 June, employers will be fully released from the obligation to pay contributions. Workers' contributions will be significantly reduced, no pension contributions will be paid, and health insurance will be reduced to a minimum. Furthermore, lease contracts cannot be terminated, nor can rents be increased, and all private individuals and businesses' obligations to pay capital and interest on their loans are suspended until the end of the year. Well, we need to adapt the changing conditions to the changing situation, and we hope that the summer, the end of the summer, will make the difference that domestic tourism will be renewed and that it will be full of opportunities again. Allow me, in the last part of my speech, to approach my narrower country, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, and within it, Ozd. I would like to start with Ózd, I consider it my hometown, as I have lived here since my birth, and although we have always been referred to as the citadel of heavy industry, but in recent years we have returned to the domestic palette of tourism. We have returned with refurbished factory buildings, which have been filled with new content with Hungarian help, European support, and we have been able to return new old factory buildings such as the building of the former power plant, the blower house, of which we have already won an international Architectural Prize and not one of the investments carried out here. It was very important that the state understood that, in addition to the priority destinations, the countryside in Hungary still has a number of treasures that are properly involved in development policy, the domestic development circle, it will be able to play a role and take on all that can be attractive to Hungarian interests and foreign guests. Besides Ózd, it is very important for us to be able to connect to the Hungarian cycle, because Aggteleki and the Bükk National Park are in our immediate vicinity, and their values are about 18 and 20 kilometers away from us, and if we can connect with the other important services, attractions and attractions of the two major national parks, then we can be part of this great cycle. What to do, what can we do in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County? First of all, we take into account all that is our treasure, which is kind to us, which is a sight, an experience, it can become one for the guest, too, if it has not become one. We have world heritage sites such as the Aggteleki-karst and the historical wine region of Tokajhegyalja, which are protected and highlighted at international level. And there are classic tourism areas such as spa and medicinal tourism. Such is the bath of Sárospatak, Miskolc, Zsóry Mezőkövesd, or when I mention Bogács, people who want to heal find their own healing water. In addition to the Aggteleki and Bükk National Parks, active tourism can find all the attractions for them, water, the wonderful environment, the good air, which, as I said, offers numerous opportunities such as the Bodva Valley, the Sajó Valley, which, with its special beauty and attraction, captures cyclists, booty tourists, as well as new services such as Bodrog or Tisza small boat accommodation, relaxing facilities and hiking opportunities that will help you to get to know our otherwise beautiful surroundings. [[19.40]] It is very important for us that settlements such as Szendrő have a castle of land that many do not know, and one of the built castles that protected the Highlands as a last resort, and it has been a safe place that has been mentioned since the 1300s, and they are now reclaiming their role and place in the historical perspectives as well as in today's tourism. To do this, they seek to create attractions for which we have received government assistance and will continue to receive government assistance, such as the Rakaca reservoir, which is owned or managed by North Hungary's Regional Waterworks. Our national treasure, as it enriches our drinking water base and will be enriched in the future with tourist attractions whose plans have been made recently, with the help of state aid, the management of the ÉRV, as well as the service providers and related entrepreneurs involved in all of this. It is very important for us to have a conference and experience tourism, such as the Szerencs Chocolate Festival or the Miskolc Opera Festival, the jelly festival, Tokaj or Kazincbarcika with its Color Festival, which can capture the guest who sleeps there, rests and looks around for a day or so. One of the important aims of tourism is not to pursue a one-day, one-night guest, but to strengthen multi-day rest tourism, one of which is to offer a package of our own tourist facilities to those who visit it. This is what described the government's work over the past period, the work of the Tourist Agency, that they did not seek to support individual attractions and individual services, but all the regions that, in addition to the priority destination, offer their own various services in packages alongside natural and cultural attractions or attractions. Gastronomic and wine tourism has always been part of the county, since Tokaj-Hegyalja, Miskolc, gave it confidence. But there are also complex experience centers such as the Adventure Park of Sátoraljaújhely, or all the attractions associated with Tokaj wine that attract people. The budget, which aims to achieve the 2020 targets in Hungary, provides an opportunity to further strengthen this sector. How will we be able to strengthen in this area? We can strengthen in this area by taking into account that the government is not only helping Hungary's budget to open up and develop tourism opportunities, but also, on the one hand, directly through the agency, along with the local authorities, and through civil society organisations and service providers who invest, develop and prepare attractions. The support of these various titles is also found in different ways by the interested person, who seeks to find the possibility of tourism in Hungary and of this in the next year. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Thank you for the opportunity to talk about Hungarian tourism, and I trust that my fellow opposition Members agree with me that this is the treasure of all of us, the joy of all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-102	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Riz. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group.
u2020-06-10-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Much has been said here today, but unfortunately, there has been little mention of climate protection, environmental protection and, in general, green policy. I'd like to make this up to you a little bit, but before I start doing that, a few more things that have been said, let me respond. One of these is my fellow Member Gábor Riz's points on tourism, which I can partly agree with. So it is a very good thing that Hungary's treasures can be presented to domestic tourists or even foreign tourists, it is very good to have as many individual or family businesses as possible from these sources, but let us consider that one of the biggest beneficiaries of tourism in Hungary is Viktor Orbán's friendly and family circle here in various hotels and Balaton beaches and various similar, wonderful catering units. Another very important issue was the question of Peter Harrach, whom I, by the way, respect very much for by his age, but I think that it is the 21st century. Hungarian workers of the century have little insight into their daily lives. However, I would also like to draw his attention in his absence, so that he might think about, say, a factory worker who is subject to the current labour law, what his family life is like. These are the two topics that Peter Harrach talked about in closing about the importance of a work-based society, which I agree with, and how important the family is. The only thing you forget is that while you were singing praises about the current labour code, which, by the way, you can call a slave law, believe me, who worked ten years in a factory, so I know what the practical experience is, and by the way, this situation has become even worse today, as Hungarian workers are even more vulnerable, and these people are being separated from their families due to the current rules on labour law. The municipalities were also mentioned, my fellow Member, Gelencsér, brought up Kaposvár as an example. I am very pleased that the county seat is developing this way, but let us add that there are a lot of small settlements in Hungary, so most of it is characterised by small settlements, two thirds of which are made by these settlements. I've just been to a small town mayor, who has certainly told me how severe withdrawal due to an epidemic situation affects their settlement and can easily get into trouble with their budgets. So let us not only think about large settlements, but also in small towns, but also in medium-sized cities, where there are fixed revenues that are stored, there is a place for them every year, and if we take even a fraction of them away, then we put these municipalities in a very difficult position, and it does not matter whether we are talking about oppositional, independent or fidesz-led municipalities. And then on climate protection: my fellow Member, Mr András Aradszki, said that CO2 emissions have been decreasing steadily since 1990. That is actually true and not true. On the one hand, it really began to decline from 1990, which is due to the fact that, through privatisation, everything that could be called industry and heavy industry has been sold in this country, they have come to foreign companies, who have either dismantled them or have closed down these factories at the same time. That is why this process can be seen in action here, which is why a significant reduction in CO2 statements appeared. However, it should be added that CO2 emissions in Hungary have increased since 2014. This is a completely official data, you can go anywhere on the KSH page, but you can look at these data anywhere. In light of this, I am very sorry that, however I looked at the budget, both chapters and tables, I found a total amount of HUF 40 billion for climate protection, environmental protection, or not enough, which is disappointing to me, especially as regards the fact that Viktor Orbán announced the climate protection action plan last year, which I personally consider to be a very weak proposal, but at least there were significant improvements. Obviously, Fidesz backgrounds have sensed that if the governing parties do not get involved in this issue and continue to pursue the opposition's climate crisis, they will be able to erod their own electoral camp. So you've come up with this not-so-steel climate action plan, which, I'll tell you the truth, I support, but it would be a lot more than that, in my opinion. Now, compared to this, we see that we are talking about perhaps HUF 40 billion, which we will use next year for these purposes, by the way, Minister Palkovics said that the transformation of the Mátra Power Plant, which is the largest emission in Hungary for CO2, will consume approximately HUF 300 billion. Only then where is this budget, at least the first leg, the start of work, the start of planning, because unfortunately I cannot find it in this budget, not to mention where the sustainability issues are. [[19.50]] It is very good that we can talk about energy policy, but only about energy policy in the 21st century. I think the whole point of this century is that we are not playing the solar sector, let's say, to the Tiborcz István circles, but to support the innovative, otherwise highly talented Hungarian businesses that are still working in it, thus creating jobs in this sector, and trying to achieve self-preservation in Hungarian households and in as many Hungarian households as possible. Because that's not what's going on right now. What Fidesz is doing right now is thinking about huge solar parks, and they're gonna be the Oligarchs connected to Fidesz that we're gonna be able to buy this kind of electricity from. By the way, the possibility given by the State is that they will sell this electricity to the Hungarian State at a very preferential price. So they're actually stealing from the Hungarian taxpayers. I think that, in this whole idea, I see very much, and this is supported by the fact that the law on disposable plastics, the draft law on this matter, has been withdrawn, and a much milder draft law has been tabled, that unfortunately we are not going towards sustainable development. And in your mind, green politics just snapped, because then, at that moment, it could be used well, and then now that the epidemic has come, and you're less concerned with people, you're less concerned. But regardless of how we think about it, the negative effects of climate change will remain the same, even though it is an epidemic. In fact, if you think about it, it is enough to read the relevant professional writings, because many scientists say that there is a direct link between climate change and, by the way, the coronal virus epidemic, because the two strengthen each other. In this regard, we must expect that the coronal virus epidemic will not be the last worldwide 21st. It is a century-old epidemic that will sweep over the coming years, but, unfortunately, it may get worse than that, and climate change will only intensify it. And we're a small country and we have to do something about it. I would very much ask you to accept the proposals for amending the budget that I have tabled today, if not all of them, but at least one or two, because it would also show one intention, a step forward in this thinking. I would very much ask you not to follow China in the field of green policy, but rather to try the countries of Western and Northern Europe. Thank you.
u2020-06-10-104	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Nunkovich. The next announced speaker is Mr László Böröcz.
u2020-06-10-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would also like to respond in a few sentences to what my colleague Tibor Nunkovics said. The Member said that CO2 emissions continued to increase in Hungary after 2014. In the last quarter of 2018, there was a 5.1 percent economic growth, which we say several times, and we have otherwise reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 0.7 percent. And the strange thing is that, despite the growth in the economy, greenhouse gas emissions have decreased, so I think it is certainly worth noting in this respect. With regard to climate protection in the budget, this is a very important aspect, it is available through the Economic Protection Fund for the operation of energy and climate policy modernisation systems for HUF 34.3 billion; it is possible to finance virtually special things from this. However, what is in the budget is also in fact in fact, and Mr.Orbán has not noticed that the central budget sub-scheme has HUF 148 billion for environmental protection, and that the general government part and the municipalities also have HUF 284 billion for environmental protection, so it can all be spent on this. Despite the fact that the negative effects of the corona virus epidemic have been overwritten worldwide, including in our country. The primary objective of Hungarian economic policy is to protect the results achieved so far, to restart the economy and to restore the momentum of growth that is outstanding at European level. In times of crisis, it is not a need for austerity and not for the public to be sabotaged, as left-wing governments do, but for a programme of economic protection to enable the economy to recover. Data from recent years clearly show that Hungary is one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe, but innovation and technology are an essential means of further development, as protection of our environment is essential for our future. Instead of the past, Hungary has chosen the path of the future, namely climate protection, energy sovereignty and green economic growth, and it has been one of the countries that has also been outstanding in the fight against climate change. The excellent Hungarian climate performance of recent years teaches us that the objectives of environmental protection, economic development and energy security are not in conflict, but are compatible and even mutually reinforcing objectives. The positive process is confirmed by the 2018 emissions, as I mentioned, when greenhouse gases were reduced by 0.7 per cent despite a 5.1 per cent increase. The government has adopted the principles of a long-term climate strategy for 2050. Based on this, a strategy has been developed, along which Hungary can gradually become a climate-neutral country by 2050 without compromising economic growth and social well-being. Our country is at the forefront of the EU in achieving the emissions reduction targets we have undertaken. By 2030, one of the few Member States is expected to achieve not only the objectives of sectors outside the emissions trading system, such as transport, building energy, waste management and agriculture, but also overachievement them. In view of the future, climate-neutral transformation of the economy, strengthening the security of energy supply, preserving the results of the reduction in costs, transforming the energy sector into climate-friendly and promoting innovation opportunities of economic development are a priority objective. In addition, the government supports the renewable energy production of small and medium-sized enterprises by nearly HUF 32 billion, investments in climate-neutral transformation of the economy and the development of support programmes for energy efficiency improvements for domestic businesses. In the framework of the climate and nature conservation action plan, green government bonds will be launched to finance new projects on environmental protection and mitigation of climate change, and I would note here that practically the subscription of this green government bond has been made, with a budget of EUR 1.5 billion, with an increase of EUR 7.5 billion for investors if they had had the opportunity. But the HUF 1.5 billion also means that it will be available only for environmental and green purposes for more than HUF 500 billion this year, and if the government plans to issue green bonds again next year, the same amount will be available at any rate next year, which will be used exclusively for environmental, climate and green purposes. This also confirms that the government is committed to implementing the climate protection targets, and we are spending huge amounts on this, both this year and next year. In our opinion, the costs of the climate neutral economy must be paid to climate damages, i.e. the large polluting countries and the large polluting companies, and this policy must not be implemented in such a way as to increase the price of energy and food paid by families. The essence of this is not to take money away from poorer countries, and not to redistribute EU cohesion funds, which already provide narrow frameworks, but to involve new resources through innovative mechanisms to combat the negative effects of new challenges. [[20.00]] EU Member States and individual economic sectors have different responsibility for emissions. According to statistics for 2018, 43.5 percent of the Union's CO2 emissions were caused by the three largest pollutants, Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy. At the same time, the total emissions of the former Socialist countries are only one fifth of the European Union's emissions. More than two thirds of this is caused by Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania together. In Hungary, annual CO2 emissions per capita are 5.4 tonnes, so the country accounts for only 1.4 percent of the total emissions of the community. The government's aim is to ensure the coordinated, practical and efficient use of resources for research, development and innovation by the budget of 2021 in support of the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. A single National Research, Development and Innovation Fund, within which the 2020 Research Fund and the Innovation Fund have been established, is an instrument for this. From the research base, socially useful research projects, research excellence objectives, higher education institutions and research institutes and individual research excellence programmes will be funded, while from the innovation base corporate innovation and market-oriented R &amp; D activities will be supported. As I mentioned at the beginning, the budget will provide an additional HUF 34.3 million for the operation of energy and climate modernisation systems through the Economic Protection Fund in 2021. On the basis of what has been said, I think it is safe to say that, through green bonds, through the resources available in the budget, Hungary will also provide very serious resources for environmental protection and the achievement of the green policy objectives in 2021. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-10-106	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. Next up is Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-06-10-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The economic downturn, the crisis, has been expected, and after decades of recovery, this is the way it usually is, and the crisis usually comes. So the uncertainty was here in the air, without the coronal virus and without the plague. We've been talking about this for years. Unfortunately, what's coming is certainly beyond our imagination and even our worst dreams. We do not know, we do not see exactly how the coronal virus crisis affects and changes our daily lives, so we do not know how it will affect certain sectors of the economy. What follows is uncertain. However, we know for sure that the oil crisis, and in many cases the economic and social turbulence that has not been seen since the World War, is coming in the global economy. Hungary, as an open and exposed economy, will suffer from this turbulence. The bigger problem is that the bill before us shows that the government does not want to be aware of this fact. Let us translate this problem into an eloquent Hungarian language: what is economic turbulence for economists and fidesz politicians is a disaster for Hungarian people. What happened? What happened was that in two months, 200,000 people lost their jobs. This means that the livelihood of the same number of Hungarian families is at risk. We're talking about half a million people and children who wake up and often don't even know what they're eating that night, let alone the next day. And careful, the 200,000 people mentioned include only those Hungarians who apparently lost their jobs to the statistics, who are not working black, who have not fallen out of the social network before. Unfortunately, we know that there are many of them. Only one shocking figure: the average length of unemployment in Hungary today is slightly more than nine months. But they only get three months' benefits for the unemployed. Meanwhile, inflation is accelerating and the price of basic food is skyrocketing. Dear fellow Members, Sometimes you have to go to the store, see what it costs. Under deteriorating economic circumstances, this situation is nothing more than a prelude to a social disaster, my fellow Members. However, the Fidesz government does not seem to want anything to do with this social disaster. The draft budget we are discussing here is evidence of qualified, evil, premeditated failure, a blatant sin. The Fidesz government has left Hungarian people on the side of the road with great joy and unscrupulousness. In addition to growing economy and employment, it was only with great goodwill that it was possible to argue that anyone who could can can work, but now it can't, because there is a crisis, because there are fewer and fewer jobs. Now it's safe to say that a lot of people who really want to can't work because they don't have a place to work. Still, it's like Fidesz doesn't want to know. According to the draft budget for 2021, hundreds of thousands will remain on the road again without assistance and community solidarity. Not because it's the order of things, but because the state, the Fidesz government leading the state, decides to leave them on the side of the road. If you don't work, don't eat, and if you don't have a job where the people can work, you're gonna starve to death? That's the government's position, that's Fidesz's policy. So it turned out more clearly that leaving on the side of the road, bleeding the Hungarian people out was the basis and essence of Fidesz's policy. Of course, fidesz new-rich people, the party's clientele, they don't leave without money. There is no reason to operate with consolidated funds and such encryptions in the budget. For a reason, it is not completely transparent what amount is included in which fund, broken down in detail. There is no reason for the people to know how much we spend on the completely meaningless, never-refundable Budapest-Belgrád railway, and it must be covered in every possible way and way that this budget serves the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros and the great lords of Fidesz, not the interests of the Hungarians. That's Fidesz policy. Fellow Members! You can say, good, good, critical of the opposition, but then tell me what to do. Then I'll help you, and I'll tell you. First, you need to change your mindset. While the Fidesz government wants to support the clientele in crisis and the weak, the Hungarian Socialist Party is thinking the other way around: we want to support the weak and the clientie. The Hungarian Socialist Party requests solidarity from the returnees, the Mészáros Lőrincek, on a monthly basis. The money thus released is due to those who are in a difficult situation, those who lose their jobs. Why? So that they can buy food and clothing for their children. That is why we have proposed an increase in the family allowance that has remained unchanged for 13 years. If Hungary is a family-friendly country, then the money must be provided not by the friends of the Prime Minister's family, but by the Hungarian families. That is why we have proposed a nine-month increase in job search support. If those who are now unemployed get help, they will buy milk and bread at the corner shop and the bakery. By buying home-made products and food, customers are specifically helping the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, job creation, i.e. the recovery of the economy. Therefore, we stress that instead of renovating the hotel and Lőrinc Mészáros, we have to spend our money on renovating the family houses. That's why we say over and over again that instead of spa development, we need to build a flat. At the same time, we could reduce Hungarians' overhead costs and greenhouse gas emissions. I will summarize what we are talking about: spending the Hungarian people's money on Hungarian people, not on Fidesz's culture. It's as simple as that. You will also have to admit, sooner or later, that the taxes paid by Hungarians do not belong in the private register of Fidesz and Fidesz. [[20.10]] We must admit that the nation's common money must be for the good of the nation. Grow up to the noble task, my fellow pro-government Members. I have said this many times, and I say it now: if it is not clear from our amendments where the money is to be packed, that it is in the interests of the people instead of the Fidesz and his clientele, then I would be happy to explain it to any of them at any time. I suggest that we talk about reality, about the fact that while the Fidesz MEPs, in producing all the symptoms of ideological hysteria, refuse to ratify the Istanbul Convention, Hungarian women and children are injured and die every day. I am talking about domestic violence, which has increased dramatically during curfew. The problem is not the use of the Istanbul Convention, but the fact that everyone is just idly watching this tragic situation. Women and children who have been abused cannot be protected by the Hungarian social services, the police or the courts. We need to talk about this real situation, not your ideological hysteria. But if ideology is so important to you, you can also rename the Istanbul Convention to the top, only one thing is important: to protect Hungarian women and children from violence. We know what the shortcomings and flaws of the current system are. We know that what authorities often think is domestic violence. We know how likely it is to impose preventive detention because the relevant paragraph is difficult for the authorities to find. We also know the difficulties of victim protection when the perpetrator and the victim are intimate, but they do not live in the same household. We know that women who have been abused are often sent to mediation as equals in such a so-called trial. We know that abusive parents often abuse the right of parental contact and repeatedly traumatize abused children. Fellow Members! Have you ever seen a crying child forced to see him who doesn't want to meet a father who beats his mother? And what do the Hungarian authorities do at this time? They're forcing the child and forcing the mother to meet. In fact, even a parent who protects his child is being punished because he, in a manner of speaking, hinders contact and is themselves called a family - friendly, child - friendly country. I can't believe it! You want me to go ahead with the problems? In fact, the least we can do is protect abused children from coercion. The least we can do is change the criminal category of relationship violence immediately. It's finally necessary to realize that an ex-partner could be the abuser the victim never lived with. But if we are serious about protecting Hungarian children and women, we also need to say that much more is needed. Without regular education and further training of members of the child protection warning system, we will never effectively protect those who are abused. A complex, comprehensive training programme covering the signalling system and all members of the judiciary is needed. It is necessary for professionals to recognize violence, to recognize its nature, not to cause victims more problems than they can solve. Parallelity and dysfunction of jurisdiction must be eliminated. The lack of knowledge, the shortage of professionals and the lack of money must be brought to an end. You have to end it so that you don't know what your right hand is doing on your left. How do we do that? What's the solution? Making use of this opportunity and establishing a Women's and Family Protection signalling system under the 2021 budget, building on today's child protection signalling system. Now's your chance. Here's the budget bill. Let's act. The responsibility of the members of the signalling system should also be strengthened. Failure to give a signal should be subject to a strong and sure penalty. Consider the failure of the signal a threat, as it is. All this requires an anti-violent coordinator to develop the concept of extending the signalling system and put the relevant bill on the table of the government and Parliament within four months. We know that if Fidesz wanted to, he'd already passed a two-thirds law in one day, so don't try to tell us that that's not enough time. The coordinator's further task may be to coordinate between the guardianship office, the court and the members of the signalling system, to remedy the problems of cooperation, or, in the case of legislative amendments, to negotiate, prepare and submit the text of the norm to the Parliament. The coordinator may also have a continuous role to play in the development of education and training programmes for police, social services, courts, public education players, members of the signalling system, the organisation and control of these training courses. The goal is to make sure that within two years all relevant professionals are familiar with the nature of violence and recognize its signs. It's the only way to get results. It's the only way to reduce the number of domestic violence. The anti-violent coordinator should be assigned to the budget and to the public administration under the Equal Treatment Authority, who has been thanked for his sacrifice. For this reason, under Title 22 of Parliament Chapter I, I propose the establishment of a programme for the eradication, anti-discrimination and gender equality of violence in Chapter 2 of the Equal Treatment Authority with a budget of HUF 3 billion. I hope Fidesz is worth so much the physical and psychological integrity of Hungarian children and women. Thank you very much for listening, and thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for actually spending the entire day here motionless, so that the budget can really get better. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2020-06-10-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2020-06-10-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I must admit, in this late hour, I did not want to waste the time of the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much for your contribution and for your positive comment on my participation in the debate. However, it was not because of this, but because of the other words of the Member. Those adjectives, I'm sorry, but in my opinion, cuts that the budget for next year is qualified as an evil failure, Mrs. Speaker, have used such words, the government leaves people on the side of the road, and this policy makes it possible to starve to death. Well, it was hard not to say anything. Firstly, if someone has done something to enable everyone to live and move forward, I think that they have been governments in office since 2010 and factions in support of governments. We have often talked about the fact that ten years ago, Prime Minister, he announced the creation of a million new jobs. We all know that living out of work is a step forward for individuals, and it gives them stamina, because the person himself knows that he can make a living not on welfare, on external donations, but on his own. I repeat, I am convinced that this will also give the individual support and provide more income than if he were to make a living on welfare. In addition, the work-based society will ensure that, thanks to higher employment, the state's tax revenues are increased and, for example, we can spend more on health care. This was the case after 2010, compared to the period before 2010. The experiences and facts of these past years tell me that what the government intended to do during this year's budget deviation and then in its amendment, and what the budget of 2021 puts on its flag, namely, as many jobs as the epidemic destroys, we will hopefully be able to achieve. It is not guaranteed that we can create the same number of jobs as the virus will destroy, within a short period of time in the competition sector, say, within a year, but the intention and purpose are clear, and this is included in next year's draft budget law. The Congresswoman said that government measures are only a step forward for some people. My problem with this is, unfortunately, that the Member's statements, sorry for the expression, her cuts are not supported by facts. With all due respect, I would like to report to you so far on the measures to protect and preserve jobs. [[20.20]] More than 150,000 people submitted their applications for job protection support, more than 14 thousand people submitted their applications to preserve research and development jobs, 143 thousand submitted their applications to support competitiveness-enhancing and job-saving support schemes. That's three programs. Anyone who has submitted his application and meets the normative conditions will receive the aid. May I remind you that, for example, János Kóka's company has received support; everyone who is right. There is no distribution based on political views or religious ideas. Everyone gets the support because all jobs are important to Hungary, the government. For eight weeks of digitalization free training, 62,000 applied. In the debate, many people said whether we are looking at improving productivity, R &amp; D or not. We have launched free digitalisation training, I repeat, 62 000 people have applied for this program. So when you appreciate government measures, I respectfully ask you to make your statements on the basis of facts and see what the 2021 budget contains in terms of economic protection and job creation measures. The congresswoman mentioned skyrocketing inflation. Well, if we go to the shops, we don't always see that. In May, inflation was 2.2 percent. I think that in the next period, as has been the case, the central bank will pay attention to ensuring that we do not deviate from the medium-term inflation target on a permanent basis. We can trust that wages will preserve their value, or, if we can manage this crisis, that the wage increase we have seen will continue. This rise in wages, as has already been said today, may not only apply to certain social groups. The Congresswoman said that the government does not listen to the support of the weak and does not devote sufficient energy. Then allow me, Congresswoman, to quote facts again. If we consider those who have not worked as vulnerable groups, I can say that since 2010, the number of people employed has increased by more than 800 thousand. Unfortunately, this rate will decrease as a result of economic processes, but we are far from what was before the 2008 crisis and, again, we hope that the number of people employed will increase after the crisis has subsided. But one of the main things I'm saying is that it's about taking on the poorer layers that they can work for higher incomes instead of lower benefits. In addition, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased significantly as a result of the trialogue agreement at the end of 2016. This represents a 42 per cent net increase in real earnings compared to 2010 for workers who do not have children in respect of net real earnings at the minimum wage. If you have one child, you have an increase of 55.3 percent, and if you have three children, you have an increase of 107.8 percent, so you are talking about more than doubling. Congresswoman also spoke of the fallen and the childish. Let me tell you now that I want to be factual and not talk about different periods in fact, that the net real earnings of employees at minimum wage has typically fallen before 2010. I've got the data in my hand. Compared to this, after 2010, we see a significant increase in minimum wage workers with children. Let me tell you that before the crisis, the average gross earnings in Hungary were over 400 thousand forints. Congresswoman, if the combined gross income of the two people in one family is around HUF 310 thousand and they raise three children, they can use the maximum amount of the family tax allowance, the net HUF 99. What we are talking about when we classify economic policy as good, good, there are results, good, good, wages are rising, but this applies only to the privileged. The facts deny that. I trust that the Honourable Parliament will also give the government confidence in the 2021 budget, accept this budget, and trust means that we will have the strength and ability to implement this budget. In this context, I am confident that the negative effects of the crisis will be mitigated or improved. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-06-10-110	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Banai. Tibor Nunkovich volunteered for two minutes. You've got a minute and a half.
u2020-06-10-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Then I'll try to be quick and schedule our remaining time frame. Just two quick thoughts. What has been mentioned here in response to my speech from my fellow Member, Mr Böröcz: the framework of the municipalities will not be the state framework, so the two will be different. And the reason I'm not counting them on green bonds is because the government bond is a loan and the loan has to be repaid. In agreement with Mr Secretary of State, there is currently a relatively good interest rate for the Hungarian State, so a not too high interest rate must be repaid, but since this is in euro, and let us add that the forint is not playing hardball with the euro in recent years, we can expect a much bigger bukovár than we are currently counting. We do not want to be like, let's say, in the case of settlement bonds, where there were intermediate players who were very good at this. We hope that the tied use of green bonds will really go where it should go, and that this will not go to mowing grass, but will result in investments that, in five to ten years' time, will be able to generate revenues for the Hungarian State or even for the municipalities, and will become self-sustaining, or, as I said, they will be able to produce extra profit for the Hungarian State by producing revenues. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-10-112	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Nunkovich. The next speaker is Péter Ovádi, Member Fidesz.
u2020-06-10-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We started with big plans in 2020, but no one expected these big plans to go through a pandemic. However, the Hungarian man is not famous for giving up. We do not give up and let go of our big plans, so we look forward to 2021. After a long time, the government of Hungary and the budgets of the previous years have allowed the development of the countryside again. Thanks, among other things, to the Modern Cities programme, the county-righted cities had the opportunity to make long-awaited investments. As a representative of the 1st constituency of Veszprém County, I am proud that the expected Veszprém city swimming pool will soon be completed, the industrial park investment will begin, which will be an innovative cooperation for the cooperation of industry and vocational training, the Antal Csermák Music School will be renewed, the Veszprém Gymnastics Club will be enriched with a new gymnast practitioner with a bright history of success. The reconstruction of the Petőfi Theatre in Veszprém is underway, and everyone is looking forward to a new valley bridge crossing the county seat. The expansion of the Veszprém-Literium on Highway 8 has begun, and the multilevelisation and complete renovation of the southern bypass hubs in Büred and Almád until 2022, which is the largest investment in the region. This development is important not only for Veszprém and the region, but also because of the availability of Lake Balaton. Veszprém is the centre of the embrace of Bakony and Lake Balaton. As a merchandising site, it was essential to implement the bypass. A lot of people travel from the area to the city every day to school and work. Increased traffic during the summer period is a regular inconvenience for the people living here, not to mention the high number of accidents. These are all improvements that not only benefit Veszprém and Veszprém, but also the inhabitants of the surrounding settlements. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is committed to the support and partnership of municipalities. In 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government freed municipalities from debt of HUF 1369 billion on a historical scale, the difficult situation of which was also compounded by the ruins left behind by the Balliberians. [[20.30]] Since then, both cities and small settlements have been on the road to development. We are living in a very difficult time, tearing up society and the economy, but it is reassuring that in the present difficult situation, the government has not taken away the opportunity from small settlements, and the Hungarian village programme is still available. I am very pleased to say that the settlements of my constituency have received more than HUF 800 million in support so far. In the previous year, the settlements of the constituency were able to receive 56 successful applications, including a new community space and library in Jásdon, and now new tools can help the maintenance of public areas in Vilonyán and Bándon and Kislőd, and children will soon be able to use the renewed kindergarten in Márk, but I can tell more from the network of roads connecting the cities of the constituency, which has been renewed or is currently under design or implementation. The Hungarian village programme is a huge opportunity for small settlements, as it will make improvements and investments possible, which a small number of small-scale settlements with a small budget would not be able to implement on their own initiative. I regularly hold a mayor's forum, where mayors always confirm that both the applications for the Hungarian village program and the applications issued by the Ministry of Interior provide real answers to real problems, can be easily implemented and are therefore very popular. Dear House, It is a special pleasure that the application for civil society associations has been published in the Hungarian village programme, as there are a number of active civil society organisations operating in the constituency, which are the engines of small settlements. I trust there will be many successful applications. In 2021, 90 billion HUF is available in the Hungarian village program, which is more than double the budget of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, The pillars of our economy are small, medium-sized and large companies, thanks to which unemployment has been minimised in the country in recent years. Veszprém County was always at the forefront of employment and the unemployment rate was among the lowest in the country. Unfortunately, the virus has not spared us either, so the previous number has jumped, but we are still working to create jobs, and all those who have lost their jobs because of the pandemic situation can get back to work. The government's economic recovery package is a great help. In the county, high-skilled workers in the R &amp; D and innovation sector have so far received wage support for more than 1100 people and reduced working time employment has been used for more than 10 500 people. The opportunity provided in the economic protection action plan will help some 105,000 people and their families to preserve jobs. Several large companies in Veszprém have won on HIPA's support programme to increase competitiveness, and further applications are expected. Valeo-Siemens eAutomotive Hungary Kft. has already taken over its grant agreement in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. and Balaton Furniture Ltd. So do I. It is not over yet, as several other companies will soon receive the documents proving their successful application. Companies invest hundreds of millions of HUF in development and provide guarantees to keep jobs. In addition to the transitional measures, the government decided on a long-term tax reduction that leaves hundreds of billions of HUF per year in Hungarian businesses and strengthens the safety of nearly four million jobs. From 1 January 2021, the key to small business tax will be reduced to 11 percent, which will make it easier for nearly 40,000 companies. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget ahead is a guarantee that the country is able to emerge from difficult situations and that the government remains committed to development. I believe that we now have a draft budget that everyone can support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-114	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai would like to speak for two minutes, you have 53 seconds.
u2020-06-10-115	Okay. Well, so it's great that the Secretary of State cancels the propaganda, what has happened since 2010, but I was talking about what is happening. When they don't know what to say, it's the last eight years. Well, then I'd like to look at some examples of desertion since 2010. From 2010 onwards, the tricks started on the labour market, they promised employment expansion, the public work programmes employed 50-150,000 more people, thus pairing us with the example of the solar cloud trainings for hunger wages, which means that the public wage today is worth much less than ten years ago; 2010: net HUF 60 236, 2020: net HUF 54 217, which is currently about 25 percent less in 2010 and is equivalent to approximately HUF 40,000. In most of these jobs, they are not forms of employment appearing in the economy, i.e. generating profits. Hundreds of thousands of active workers have left Hungary, and I thank you for the most accurate number. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He'll tell you. These people...
u2020-06-10-116	Thank you very much...
u2020-06-10-117	There's more of them now. Thank you.
u2020-06-10-118	... Congresswoman. State Secretary Péter Banai would like to take the floor.
u2020-06-10-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I said facts, so if we look at the processes of the last ten years, we can look at the number of people employed or the actions each year. You said the public servant's wages. My claim is that you can earn more income if you live off community service than if you live on welfare. That's one of my statements. My second claim is that the number of people employed in public work has decreased significantly in recent years. Why? Because many people, significant groups of people, have been redirected to the world of work instead of aid, to provide them with more income, and then transferred from here to the competition sector. The evolution of wages. Over the last nine years, average earnings have changed by 7 percent per year, with an average of 7 percent per year. That includes the public workers. I think that it is difficult to argue with numbers, and it is precisely these numbers, I repeat, which give reason for confidence that destroyed and destroyed jobs can be rebuilt, because if more than 800 000 jobs have been created in the last ten years, then I think we have reason to believe that others will be created instead of jobs that have now ceased, primarily in the competition sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-120	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz.
u2020-06-10-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Congresswoman, His dramatic speech has disappointed me, and what I am saying is that the labour market, the country's economy, applies to the public work programme, to the municipalities, so I would like to point out that it does not apply to domestic violence, and that I have come to mind the common saying that all the jokes for the newborn are new, because you have played this for us, honourable Member, but the fact is that there are some of us who remember the period 2002-2010 that I remember when there was 25 percent unemployment in the area of Nyírbátor in our region. Then the story was really about people starving. Now anyone who wants to work can work. You wanna know what's going on with us? We cannot ask enough applicants to participate in the public works program because they have gone to work for companies and are not making 54 thousand forints, but 200 thousand forints net. The fact is, then, that you have been talking about the situation in the country, the situation in the municipalities. I was mayor at the time, and there was a complete bleeding of the municipalities: schools were closed, kindergartens had to be closed, Mrs. Congresswoman, people had no work, the municipalities were bankrupt, they were indebted. [[20.40]] So I ask with great respect that you consider what you are saying, because your sentences have about as much truth as Congressman Koróz's rescue officer in that ominous video. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The 2021 budget is the budget for the re-launching of the economy in difficulty due to the control of the Covid-19 epidemic and the epidemic. For the government, protecting people's lives and safety was the primary aspect that was taken into account in the establishment of the 2021 budget. This means continuing the economic protection programme already launched this year and establishing the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund. The aim is to create new jobs instead of job losses, to ensure that as many families as possible can create and maintain their financial security, and to improve the conditions of the older population most threatened by the epidemic. If we think of the country's security, then the first thing we can think of is the preservation of public security and the sovereignty of our country, and we can see that these two areas have a strong role to play in the 2021 budget. I would now like to talk briefly about these two chapters. The budget for defence spending will increase by HUF 162 billion next year, which represents a total budget of HUF 778 billion. This amount corresponds to around 1.66 percent of the nominal GDP forecast for the future. As early as 2012, the government decided not to reduce the defence budget in nominal value until 2016 and to increase by at least 0.1 per cent of GDP per year from 2016 onwards. The commitment has been achieved so far and the strong objective remains to achieve the 2 percent GDP ratio expected by NATO by 2024. In 2021, therefore, expenditure on defence was set in the budget proposal in proportion to GDP, with a significantly higher surplus than in previous years. This also gives the opportunity to continue the developments that have been started in the framework of the programme of defence and force development and to improve the estimation of personnel. Expenditure shall cover the protection of Hungary's independence, territorial integrity, its borders, its population and its material assets, as well as the fulfilment of other military obligations arising from federal and international contracts. It is proposed that the Defence Fund will be HUF 44 600 from January 2021. According to the proposal, the defence portfolio will contribute more than HUF 10 billion to NATO's security investment programme next year. This defence budget includes HUF 100 million for the expenditure on the deployment of standby sub-units to be developed on the basis of NATO and the EU's recommendation, and HUF 616 million for the EU's defence common-funded defence funds. The Hungarian Defence Sports Association will receive more than HUF 1.2 billion next year, the Kratochvil Károly Honvéd High School and College in Debrecen will receive more than HUF 400 million, and the Military National Security Service will manage some HUF 32 billion. About HUF 47 billion is being spent by the government on the operating costs of the Hungarian Defence Health Centre. The law implementing the law on war care records a public fund operation, which is financed by the Ministry of Defence by HUF 17 billion. The defense wallet is expected to receive more than HUF 41 billion in revenue next year. Next year's budget also states that the Minister of Defence may use the revenue from the sale of surplus military equipment, military equipment and materials for defence purposes in 2021 to cover expenditure related to the technical modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the maintenance and repair of technical equipment, the development of capabilities and military equipment, the financing of expenditure incurred in sales procedures and the management and disposal of waste generated by defence organisations. Turning to the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, we can see that the budget for 2021 considers strengthening public security, protection against international and domestic terrorism and illegal migration as a priority, the development of disaster protection, the detection of crimes and the enforcement of penalties to protect human life and values. Hungary's public security is balanced, the country still does not have a region, settlement or part of the city that is critical to public security. The consistent professional work of recent years has been confirmed by data from public opinion polls. Maintaining public security is based on ensuring a continuous public police presence. In implementing this, continuous contact with local governments is a fundamental task. In the settlements of the country, the permanent police presence is ensured primarily by the district agency service. In addition to mass illegal migration, which has been permanent for years and thus continues to be challenging, effective protection of the state border is constantly ensured. Domestic law enforcement authorities will also receive the necessary budgetary support for the effective performance of all these tasks in 2021. The government recognises and supports the importance and key role of the civilian watch, voluntary fire brigades and voluntary rescue organisations. [[20.50]] The total amount of the Home Affairs budget in 2021 is nearly HUF 857.6 billion, which is 12,6 percent and HUF 96 billion more than in 2020. The budget of the home affairs institutions for 2021 is HUF 679.6 billion, which is 5.8 percent, or HUF 37 billion more than in 2020. It can be seen from what he said that the government takes seriously the task of security of the country as enshrined in the Fundamental Law. Unfortunately, in 2021 migration is expected to be the factor that will best define this function. Hungary is located on one of the most pressured migration routes. The consequences of this have been continuously felt since 2014. The majority of migration forecasts for the next period are unfortunately negative. The causes of this are, on the one hand, adverse global political events, in particular armed conflicts in the Middle East and North African countries, and the global economic difficulties caused by the epidemic. On the other hand, I would refer to Hungary's already mentioned transit character, its geographical location and hundreds of thousands of migrants in Turkey and the Balkan countries. On the long weekend of Pentecost, there was no Hungarian border section where illegal immigrants would not have tried. Migration pressure is therefore rising again, and our country will only be able to prevent a possible new European migrant crisis if there are effective instruments and sufficient force to protect borders. It is therefore of the utmost importance that, according to the 2021 budget proposal, a significant amount of funds for public security and defence, forints 1 to 1 billion, will be allocated to cover expenditure related to the management of mass immigration. With the approval of the Government, the framework for both appropriations may be exceeded, ensuring that the funds necessary to properly address a potentially serious asylum situation are available. Military developments and foreign military engagements that strengthen the position of Hungary and the Hungarian Defence Office in the region are also important for the migration situation. Ensuring security within our borders also includes the stability of the immediate environment, neighbouring countries and regions. The security of the peoples and countries of the Western Balkans is also extremely important for Hungary from a migration perspective, so we want to play a leading role in increasing it. For the sake of stability in Central Europe, a multi-national division headquarters in Central Europe and a regional special operational component command are in the process of being established. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been times when domestic law and defence have been managing deficits, but in recent years, the Parliament has, on a proposal from the government, provided the budget support that can actually be built and strengthened. In addition to mitigating the effects of the global economic crisis and avoiding the health crisis, this is the key to consolidating the country's security. Let me conclude by thanking those working in the healthcare, social sector, law enforcement, defence and public administration for their role in mitigating the problems caused by the virus and the epidemic. Thank you so much for your help. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-10-122	Thank you very much, Congressman Simon. I give the floor to the speaker, Mr Fideszes, F Kovács.
u2020-06-10-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Next year's budget and a government, a wallet, and the most important law of the year that lies before us. This is the greatest challenge for professionals, financial professionals, and I would say that I congratulate the Secretary of State and the purse on the submission and negotiation, but I will not, because it is not the submission, the negotiation, nor even the likely acceptance, because in the last 30 years a lot of budgets have been submitted, negotiated and adopted. What I congratulate you on is the implementation of the budgets so far, because this serious task, when there is a plan, there is a vision, however beautiful, however good, it must be implemented, because we are planning for the future, which is completely uncertain. A year ago, no one could see the situation today, no one could see the economic situation caused by the Crown Virus, but the budget must still be kept, the deficit targets must be kept, the commitments made by a wallet, by a government, must be kept. Therefore, I congratulate you on the fact that in the last ten years you have been able to keep the budget figures you have entered into in the budget, and I trust that the budget for 2021 will be the same. Compared to the budgets of previous years, the budgets of left-wing governments, the figures were considered to have decreased unemployment, the economy has increased, the public deficit has been kept in check, the government's wealth has not been revived, but it has been increased, and it has not become huge borrowing, but the decline in debt has been continuous. These are very important things, and this is also the case for good economic governance. Those who go to the country see the investments, the construction, the development. In my constituency, too, there have been a lot of such developments, in the last 20-30 years there have not been so many kindergartens, nurserys, markets, halls, road constructions, bicycle road constructions at the same time as they are now. You see that there are economic power centres in the country that are far beyond the average economic development. Economic power centers that, like a planet or the sun, have enormous gravity and attract investment, as well as public and private investment. And it's joyful, but there's a certain problem in economic geography that may also be described as internal periphery. In areas between large economic centres, progress has fallen below the national average. Despite public investment, despite the development that goes into these areas, the lag in these areas will not only decrease but also decrease compared to the dynamically developing regional centres. Such regional centers may even be Debrecen in Eastern Hungary, which develops more dynamically; perhaps a little slower, but equally advanced Szolnok, even Eger, can be taken here; and the area in this area, South Heves, the eastern part of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, the line Tiszafüred-Karcag-Skisújszállás-Túrkeve-Wegyvernek, but also the western part of Hajdú-Bihar County, the northern part of the county of Békés, are between these two. If the state does not invest more money here, then a few years from now, it will cost much more effort, much more energy to catch up. In my constituency there are two settlements where you can see this: Tiszabő and Tiszabura. From where intellectuals flowed, youth went away, there was no job, and now it costs a lot more money to catch up on these regions. [[21.00]] There are positive signs, since a work has started with the cooperation of the Ministry of Interior and various civil society organisations, but there is no need to get to this point, but to spend more money from the budget on these areas, these internal peripheral areas, and not to spend the money without counting, because it doesn't make sense. In 2012, county authorities measured the strengths of the regions and their weaknesses in each county. If we base it on this survey, we can see that each of these areas is different; the situation is different in a region of nográd, in Baranya, in a region of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok or in a peaceful region. Individual programmes should be developed for these areas, such as tourism, the food economy and the environmental industry in the Great Plain. So these areas need special attention, so that we can catch up with other more dynamically developing regions because of the drop-off and the slower pace, and, of course, what is mainly causing these problems is the need for faster infrastructure development. I would ask for this, Mr Secretary of State and the wallet, for the government's help, to pay more attention to these areas, to catch up with these areas and to raise them more strongly. Thank you very much. And as I said, I would like to congratulate you not on the submission, not on the preparation, but on the implementation, to which the experience of the past entitles me. That's how we trust next year's budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-10-124	Thank you very much, Congressman F Kovács. I don't see any other candidates for this speech. Dear Parliament, The general debate is adjourned. It will continue at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you for your work. The Parliament therefore resumes its meeting at 8 a.m. Good night. Meeting day's closed.
