u2020-11-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 14th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be assisted by András Aradszki and Bence Tordai. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, General debates are now being held. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the following two fellow Members who are awaiting a speech should, as far as possible, be present in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend individual laws to introduce a home-creation action plan will follow up until closure. Government referral T/13477. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister Katalin Novák, the Minister without a wallet for families, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2020-11-05-1	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Without children, there is no Hungarian future, which is why we need to help young people and families who are already raising children. Since 2010 we have been working to make it easier, better to have children, start a family and raise children in Hungary. Now, when we are faced with an unknown challenge, when the Crown Virus is taking its victims here, in our country, and in all parts of the world every day, security, physical security, financial security and emotional security are all the more appreciated. For security, we need work and a secure roof, which is why we are trying to help the Hungarian people to have a job, and that is what our family policy is all about. I am standing before you now because when I took over my appointment as a minister, I undertook to implement Hungary's largest home creation programme so far, which is why we need your support, which is what today's debate is all about. Since the family-friendly turnaround in 2010, our family policy has given home creation a special role. Usually, family formation begins with the creation of a secure roof. For such a lifelong decision, such as having children, we need predictability, stability, and it is good to have a home of our own. In addition, we Hungarians, let's say, more than Western Europeans, want to live in their own homes, and we want to give this to all Hungarians. In 2010, we took over the government with over 5,000 billion foreign currency loans on the shoulders of Hungarian families, and there was no housing support system in essence. After that, we banned foreign exchange credit, introduced the exchange rate barrier, allowed preferential repayments to banks, returned the exchange rate gap and interest costs that were unfairly taken from them, finally forinted foreign exchange loans, and imposed a ban on eviction in order to protect the most vulnerable, and launched the National Asset Manager. At the same time, we started to rebuild the opportunities for family-friendly home creation, the first milestone of which was the introduction of CSOK from 1 July 2015. Later, we continued to expand the range of support for home creation. In 2016, we reduced the VAT on new-built apartments to 5%, we also allowed the refund of VAT on construction to HUF 5 million, and we allowed large family members to borrow housing at a substantially lower rate of 3 percent than the market. This was complemented by the fact that since 2018, families with children can reduce their mortgage debt by several million forints, as remember that if a second child comes into a family, 1 million is that if a third child, it can reduce the outstanding mortgage debt by HUF 4 million, and for each additional child by HUF 1 million. In July 2019, in addition to extending the existing support under the Family Protection Action Plan, in small settlements of less than 5 000 people, we made home-building support possible under better conditions than national conditions with the village CSOK, as well as with the introduction of the 10 million HUF baby-var support for young people who were about to start a family. The vast majority of young people who are about to start a family are also using baby shower support for home-building purposes, according to our experience. The facts speak for themselves and show that it makes sense to think in family support, in a home creation program, that there are few better investments than if we invest in the next generation. Overall, since the introduction of the CSOK, we have supported the creation of families with HUF 1000 billion in the last five years. Nearly half of this, almost HUF 500 billion was made up of the non-refundable CSOK, by the way. This means that with the CSOK alone, we have been able to help 150,000 families, a total of 650,000 people, to create homes. But to do so, we can add a large part of the EUR 1000 billion paid for baby shower support, as most of it was used by young people for home-building purposes. CSOK has played a role in almost one in five housing or shopping in the last five years, and in particular has supported the acquisition of new properties in a large proportion, since two of the three new apartments or constructions were carried out in addition to the use of CSOK. The reason why we introduced the CSOK and the home creation program is because creating a home also contributes to having children. A safe future for the family, for the children, can be planned primarily if there is a safe roof over the head of the family. Now, the epidemic and its economic consequences call for further efforts to support families' home creation and the construction sector, through which the economy is driven and kept in momentum. Our aim is to help the construction industry and thus the Hungarian economy in addition to helping families get home. This is the purpose of the action plan announced in recent weeks, of which the bill currently under discussion includes the reduction of the general sales tax on newly built flats from 27 percent to 5 percent, and the abolition of the 4-percent fee for families buying homes by amending the VAT law and the tax law. The VAT reduction concerns the fact that the final invoice or part-account for the purchase of housing issued after 1 January 2021 will be taxed at a 5% tax rate, i.e. four-fifths of the VAT burden, 22 percent will be released. This saves millions or even tens of millions of people who buy new homes next year. Moreover, although this is not included in this bill, we will settle it in a separate government decree, but we already know that for families with children or who are about to have children who purchase a home with CSOK, we will also return the VAT content of 5%. [[9.10]] The reduced VAT rate will be applicable until the end of 2022, but this deadline will be more relevant to the ongoing, unfinished constructions, since the apartments for which the building permit will be granted until the end of 2026 and therefore the VAT rate of 5% will be applicable for four years. Abolishing the obligation to pay taxes will also be a great help to all families with children or children who use CSOK to create homes and buy a new home after 1 January 2021, whether used or new. Even after moving in, after the purchase price of the property has been settled, they will not be notified of the levy, as they will be able to enjoy full tax exemption in the coming years. This is a serious, even million-dollar, help for a family, even if they buy a new or used home with a child with the help of the CSOK, and even for a parent raising a child or children alone. For example, after paying the purchase price of an apartment of 50 million HUF 2 million can be saved by a family or a couple who buys their property with a CSOK. In addition to the above content of the bill, we will regulate the creation of multigenerational homes in a government decree, creating the possibility for as many as possible to live in multigenerational homes again, so that grandparents, parents and grandchildren can be under the same roof. This will mean that if a rooftop is installed in a family house, you can add the total amount of CSOK available to purchase a new home, i.e. up to HUF 10 million. We are also working hard on the creation of regulations for home renovation support with the help of the relevant wallets, which I would like to thank you for right now. We will also help families with children to renovate their homes from 1 January 2021. This will mean that for those who do not want to move, who have already found the safe cover, who already live in the home from which they do not want to move forward, we are launching a renovation and renovation program, so after 1 January 2021, if they renovate their home, they can claim half of the costs of renovation and thus save up to HUF 3 million. This means that they can save half the labour and material costs, so a HUF 6 million renovation will cost the family only HUF 3 million after 1 January 2021. I trust that many will be able to take advantage of this opportunity. As I said, the ten years of family-supporting thinking and decision-making seem to be the result. 60 years ago, the number of divorces has not been as low as 40 years ago, the number of marriages has not been as high as the previous year, and I would like to share another interesting figure with you: if we compare the results in Hungary with all the Member States of the European Union, we will see that in the last ten years Hungary has seen the greatest increase in childbearing spirit compared to all the Member States of the European Union. I think this is also a serious achievement, and we can be glad that young people have not had as many children in decades as they are now. We are confident that, thanks to the current decisions, Hungary will be a safer place, even more family-friendly, for both families who are about to have children and those who are already raising children. That is why I am asking my fellow Members to support the legislative proposals, to help us work and to make Hungary a more family-friendly place, and to provide the safety of home for even more young couples and families who are already raising children. I therefore ask for your help and support in this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-2	Thank you very much, Minister Katalin Novak. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-05-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, Article 50 of Hungary's Fundamental Law states: "Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a man and a woman, a community of life formed by voluntary decision, and the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Family relationships are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. Hungary supports the commitment of children. Since 2015, the civilian government has been a priority for families to access their own homes. The first measure was the introduction of CSOK, which has been used by 154 thousand families in the five years since then, with a total value of almost HUF 500 billion. This means that this form of support is a substitute and a real help, with which we have already managed to contribute to the achievement of the housing goals of 650 thousand people. For the purchase and construction of a new apartment, 44 thousand families have received HUF 276 billion in support of the purchase of a used apartment, 101,000 families have received HUF 189 billion in support of the expansion of their existing home, and we have been able to help a further 10 thousand families with HUF 24 billion in assistance. To highlight the above-mentioned grants: grants, i.e. those can be used by families, and they do not have to pay back to the State, are added to the preferential housing loan of families with several children with a total amount of HUF 10 million and HUF 15 million, which will increase the opportunities for home creation. We can say that the home creation programme is one of the most successful government initiatives, with which we have already provided a HUF 1000 billion non-refundable and partially refundable support to families. The policy of the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association is focused on families, providing all the support that we can gradually improve the living conditions of children, young people, those who are already family and young people. So we also support a series of measures in the new home-building action plan, which will increase the housing opportunities for families from 1 January onwards. We support VAT reductions, newer major millions, up to HUF 5-10 million, everyone who buys a new built home after January 2021 will have to pay only 5% VAT instead of 27 percent VAT. Our Fraction Association supports VAT-free access to home, and we support that from 1 January 2021 families with at least one child will be fully exempted from paying VAT after buying a home with CSOK, in practice, by refunding them the remaining 5% VAT. The Fidesz Group also supports the renovation of homes. This is an important and unprecedented new element of the home creation programme. We also contribute to renovating and modernising their existing homes from 1 January 2021 to families already raising at least one child in case of adoption of the law. Half of the family's renovation costs for both labour and material costs, up to HUF 3 million will be taken over by the state, i.e. if someone renews their existing apartment for HUF 6 million and already has at least one child, then the actual amount of the renovation will eventually cost him HUF 3 million. [[9.20]] This form can also be used by parents who raise their children alone, and all families with young people under the age of 25 in the same household as parents, and families receiving childcare premiums are entitled to this support without an age limit. The Fidesz Group also supports the tax exemption proposed by the law in cases where parents, families, have used a CSOK to purchase their new or used residential properties. After the adoption of the law, from 1 January they will be exempt entirely from the payment of the 4-percent return on property, regardless of the purchase price of the property. This amount represents a savings of HUF 2 million for a 50 million property, which is added to the previous discounts. This removes the burden on families that parents, families, had to pay after buying the property. The Fidesz Group also supports multigenerational home creation. As of January, attic construction will also benefit from a grant corresponding to the amount of CSOK for the purchase of new apartments. This is particularly important in areas such as my constituency, Budapest XVII. in its district, Rákosmenten and Kőbány, where real estate prices are very high. In this case, they no longer have to buy the land for young families, so parents can help in creating a multigenerational family home. With this new proposal, it will also be possible for the CSOK to be used by more and more people in the future with this attic construction. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, Hungary was in the middle of a serious financial crisis. But we didn't want to deal with the crisis the way left governments did when they passed all the burdens on to families. They took a month's pension, a month's wages, raised taxes, took away the family support system, and drove millions of families into debt slavery with foreign currency loans. Today, not only Hungary, but Europe as a whole, is affected by population decline. The response of Brussels and the Hungarian left is always the introduction of immigrants. It's the only answer. In Fidesz-KDNP, however, we have been working on strengthening Hungarian families for ten years now, helping them to get their own home, trying to get the children they want to be born as soon as possible. The left almost constantly insists that Fidesz does not increase the family allowance. But they always forget to mention that they raised the tax relief of families with one and two children at the same time, even though it is known that this is the typical family model in Hungary. In practice, the increased family allowance and the abolished benefit did not provide any greater help for decent, work-based and tax-paying citizens, but encouraged the non-work population to deliver starving children. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the family allowance and family tax relief, all the family support elements, which include the state aid of HUF 3 million for the announced renovation, the CSOK support for the construction of attic homes and the tax exemption, should be briefly summarized. Here is the list, very briefly and in outline, as it would exhaust my time frame, and I suspect even the time frame of the KDNP, if we want to list all the family support elements, not to mention it, but only with a list of the characteristics introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010. 90 percent of the elements of this list were not available at the time of the left-wing governments, and what was available was in scale lower than today's support. Let's look at the truth and the real facts about the family support system for the left and the Fidesz-KDNP governments. 3 million HUF for house renovation for all Hungarian families. Zero percent VAT on family housing. They can buy apartments free of charge for families. CHICK. It's a C.O.C. loan. Family allowance. It's a family tax reduction. Children's home care fee. Child care services, that's right. Child-rearing allowance, that is. Childcare fee, that's, uh, ged. Baby care fee. Maternity allowance. You're a graduate. Childcare allowance. First-married discount. A free meal, a meal discount. Children's leave. All students receive textbooks free from 2020 in public education. Lending of mortgage loans. Mothers with four or more children are exempt from personal income tax. Grandparent kid. Baby shower support. It's a cradle development program. Car-shopping support for large families. Release of student loan debt. It's a cord program. Supporting Hungarian families abroad. Creating labour law rules to protect mothers. It's a job security action plan. It's a villager's bag. Young people's start-up support and baby bonds. Free language exams. Free KRESZ course. Foreign language learning program. Elizabeth camps. It's a cradle development program. Sacrifice against domestic violence. å Hand with the help of Children's Way application for parents. And I could continue the line for a long time. Hungarian families have been given guarantees and guarantees that as long as Hungary has a civil government, the family support system will not be reduced or even extended continuously, gradually, with new and new elements, as in this law we have just negotiated. But let us mention, and do not forget, the previous list of charges. Hungary has won the rezsiper. On average, 600,000 forints were saved by families alone at the cost of electricity. It is also a significant help to increase the amount of the baby - care fee. The net amount will be higher than the mother's previous net salary. We've introduced the interest-free Student Loan Plus. 2,000 state, local government, church or cross-border kindergartens will be renewed or built in Hungary and in the Carpathian Basin worth HUF 100 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Fidesz Group, we are proud that the Hungarian government, we are the ones who spend the highest amount on families throughout Europe. Of course, we can't stop here, we can't sit back, because there's always work to be done; now, at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, especially when it hits all the countries in the world, all the economies of the coronal virus epidemic. We continue to fight a thousand on two fronts. One is further strengthening the economy, so that we can survive this period with as little loss and minimalization as possible, and the other is helping families directly. We don't take away from the family support system and elements, we don't reduce these amounts, we don't zero them, we increase them, even now, this difficult year, during the coronal virus epidemic. In view of the above, ladies and gentlemen, we see that the government and, of course, the Fidesz-KDNP faction association are also committed to continuing to faithfully support families' own home creation. Thanks to the bill we are discussing, families in Hungary are in an easier position, which is in the best interests of all our countrymen and their representatives and factions. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your attention and for supporting the bill in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. [[9.30]]
u2020-11-05-5	Mr President, Dear House, I have no intention of offending anyone, but the previous speech would have gone to Parliament in the '70s, we could have seen a production report of that style. Mr Secretary, it is at least very right that you are here, although Minister has introduced bad practice to give your own little introductory speech, and then you do not respect that debate with your presence. [[Robert Zsigó: You weren't even here in the first round! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] which, by the way, fits into his ministerial field. And Mr Secretary of State yells from behind his mask, but we hope that he will be actively involved in the debate, not as usual. Let's just say that the package before us, I think, contains, by the way, eligible, well-defined objectives, but that production report is a stylish amazing roundabout and the syrup they pour on it is something quite amazing. Let's see what's happening. In the area of home creation and demographics, this country is unfortunately in a pothole. Data on rent prices for both new housing properties are much worse than in recent decades, and in demographic terms, however they try to confuse the government side, the number of Hungarians is still below the European average, even within the truncated country, and the fertility index is still, unfortunately, below the European average, after a replacement. I wish I didn't. I'm really rooting for it not to happen. But let's look at the data and crush what was said in the production reports. The government that did nothing against the fact that an average metropolitan sublet price went up to 150-160 thousand forints plus rent during your reg. We can say that the masses of young Hungarians and young Hungarians with demographics and family planning goals have put them in an unsatisfying position. If we look at the number of newly built apartments, let us say, that even in 2007, the economic success period was 36 thousand for the apartments delivered, in 2010, this figure was at 20 800, and it went down to 7200 in 2013, fellow Members, this is your economic miracle. Then, in 2015, we can talk about 7600 apartments handed over to KSH on their small smartphones, and then we will be immediately open to debate, and then in 2016 they still did not reach the 10,000 apartments delivered. I would like to point out once again that the two thousand years do not mark Hungary's economic success period, and yet over 40,000 data over 30,000 come back, and then the number of apartments handed over after 2009 was still at 20,000. Of course, now they're gonna say it was a crisis. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And they don't say that until they have to deal with the coronal virus situation. Then this data went up to 9900 by 2016, so we're still under 10,000 apartments delivered, and fortunately it went up to 17,000 by 2018. That's a little less than half of what happened in the mid-2000s. Without wanting to praise the era where there wasn't much to praise, but the numbers are stubborn things, under these market conditions, you couldn't pass on half as many new-built apartments as you did a decade ago. The thing is, this is closely linked to your purely neoliberal, flawed family policy, home-building policy. There is no doubt that there is a lot of benefits in this area, and I welcome that, my fellow Members, so that they do not think that I want to bring out something wrong from this whole system on purpose. What you are not talking about here is that even your family support system has partly brought on the market a property price increase without controlling it, which is incorporated into the price to be paid by all Hungarian real estate buyers, and is also included in the rental prices. What we see is that while rent prices have risen from 60,000 to 160,000 forints, what you said: well, we are a government, we are Fidesz-KDNP, we do not want to interfere with market processes. The same is said at the euro/forint exchange rate, which also affects Hungarian families, also affects those with childbearing plans. Here, too, they said the government doesn't have any foreign exchange targets. True, you are making the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, in which it could have been written that the central bank should have exchange rate targets, because the central bank also says that the government didn't tell us that we should have exchange rate targets, so neither do we. For this reason, the entire Hungarian population, including those who have children, is subject to a thousand billion-year special tax. If you are so serious about demographic goals, as you say, and I hope that you are, and this is not just another political product, such as the alleged fight against the reduction of wages or migration, if you really mean it, explain it to me, my colleague from the Danube, a lady is able to see these things a lot differently, much more clearly, so that you can accept that the highest sales tax rate is in Hungary in all of Europe on child-rearing articles. I went through it one by one. There was not yet a European country where child rearing articles would have been VATed 27 percent. No more! Give me the amendment that goes down at least 5 percent in terms of child-rearing articles, and I will support it immediately, and I am almost certain that the faction behind me is, as we have been drafting this request for years. So there is no doubt that you are raising subsidies in this area, and I am not denying it, but I see that on the other hand you are leaving market processes that lead to brutal price increases, and in your own tax system you are raising them among the types of consumer taxes, and leaving those that are particularly hard on children's educators and child designers. Another huge flaw in your system is that you don't really support people who have zero children now, but I'd like to take the first one. I think it's a very good goal to have a second, third, fourth child, but let's not forget the first. The runaway rents, the brutal VAT burden, are typically hit by these families. If we talk about the different components of the program one at a time beyond the number of newly built apartments and the fact that if we move at this rate, the Hungarian real estate stock will be able to exchange around 300-400 years, with great goodwill every 200 years, if the data improves a little, we see the intention of attic construction and the intention of several generations to live together, and I am sure that it will find a target audience, and I am in favour of it, because I also feel in the receiving hours, in some personal conversations that there are such needs in Hungary, and I think it is good for the government to open up to this. At the same time, I see that this attic construction action plan cannot touch and capture as many people as it has damaged, let us say, the elimination of state support for housing savings. So I understand that there are useful programme elements, but with their other harmful actions they hit a much wider social group. My fellow Member Nacsa is coming after me, so I would like to ask you to leave some energy behind after the hand-out speeches to tell me that when you made a promise here in Parliament, you will now wave that you are not you, which is why I say that you have plowed up the state aid leg of house savings, that there will be something for him. How many years has this been going on, my fellow Member? At least three, right? You're not planning Antal Rogán's house lotteries instead of LTP's state support, are you? What do they say to young people who have been able to collect the CSOK with the support of the state's housing savings, and they cannot now wear the CSOK, rightly praised by my fellow Member from the Danube, because they cannot collect the part of themselves in this way, or, if they know, your outsourced partners, the commercial banks, tell him that my brother, you are not creditworthy because you are not earning enough. So it's absolutely amazing to exclude complete social groups from this system. I wonder what comes next to house savings. By the way, I am also in favour of abolishing the said levy in these cases, and I consider it a good thing. Once again, I am not arguing with this, but with the style of the production reports around it, with the fact data and the terrible vision of Hungary. I say this even then, I do not want to set any kind of governance before 2010 as an example, because we do not see any bright demographic indicators there, nor do we see full home creation solutions, and indeed. But you guys are doing it for yourselves. By 2022, they will make it one of the main directions of their campaign to support families. Now Minister Novák has told me, and I ask you to correct it, he literally said that Hungarian couples have not taken on as many children in decades as they are now. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] Well, if that's what my fellow Member Nacsa thinks, and he'll be next soon after me. [[Lőrinc Nacsa points to István Hollik.]] Let's talk about this, shall we? ! And then my fellow Member Hollik or anyone will be able to respond. Let's look at the data. What we see in terms of the number of live births: how did they take over government in 2010? 90 335. But even though they're shaking their heads, the thing is, you have to start from the numbers. They took over the government with a 1.29, very low fertility index, which, by the way, was an extremely bad figure. In all the post-socialist countries, it has been observed that the fertility index has fallen to such a level of 1,2-1,3 thanks to the Bokros package-like madness and other interventions. [[9.40]] In each post-socialist country, the profession refers to this process as a replacement in a quotation mark that grew back to 1.5-1.6, about the neighborhood of 2010, with the exception of Hungary. We carried a very serious economic heritage; this indicator could not rise back, and fortunately, under your governance, this replacement also took place in Hungary, about 1.49, and now 1.55. And the fact is, meanwhile, the number of women of childbearing age has been steadily decreasing, so let's not just sew this problem around your neck; I am not saying at all that Fidesz-KDNP is solely responsible for demography. I'm saying that this government is responsible for lying, because in a tragic situation, instead of a sincere confrontation, they're saying things that weren't true at the level of numbers. The data before 2010 when 97-99 thousand children were born even in 2008, may be left alone, but we see that after 2010 we measure four years where the birth rate went below 90,000. All four fall into Fidesz-KDNP governance. And if this year... I see, I read your articles, this year's growth, this 5.5 percent compared to last year's horribly bad figures, I think it's necessary to acknowledge and appreciate it, but if we end the year with this trend, then the number of live births will exceed 2017 levels, but it won't reach 2016. So the fall, the loss of 40 thousand per year, the forced emigration, the inability to thrive in the homeland remains an obsession, it cannot cease. There's the book "The Future of the Child." I hope you know this because it was created by a KDNP expert group. You know him, didn't you? In the editing of József Benda and his co-editor, about 200 experts put together an excellent volume. You know what's written in it, literally? By KDNP experts on Fidesz-KDNP: that these small displacements are welcome, but even in the turn of the trend, they do not recover. Your own experts are making the diagnosis, not me, and yet you are trying to paint the opposite in Parliament. The Józsefs Benda wrote one more thing. Based on the current number of live births, the population of Hungary is a few decades away, do you know what it will be? 6.3 million. 6.3 million! If you do your job well, and I am very rooting for you to do it right, then this can go up to 6.5-6.6, but where are we from the 10 million-dollar picture of Hungary in our childhood, our youth? We should speak frankly about this and bring solutions here to Parliament, this is their historic responsibility, which each party can say yes to with a good taste of mouth, and when they are on the government, they will be able to represent it with a good taste of mouth. After all, only a demography programme across cycles, not violent, not violent, but supportive, encouraging and motivating, will be able to bring about change, and this would be necessary. It does not help that András Bencsik lies into the world on the columns of the Democrat, that Hungary is already on the road to growth from a population perspective. It will not help if Minister says that most of the children have now been taken up by Hungarian couples in recent decades, because I have just said the figures on which this is not true. And your experts in the KDNP study book told me that they have written down the numbers that show your people to say that that's not true. Of course, they're gonna point to fertility rates. And by the way, I encourage, grow, encourage everyone involved in this circle, because the number of women of childbearing age is constantly decreasing, but then let's be honest about the fact that there is a big problem and not to say that there is a minister, a secretary of state, a congressman, that there will be any turn of trend here when your own experts expose you. We are going to be discussing a reduction in household allowances and family allowances versus family cards for a very long time later today, and migration has also been mentioned, where I would ask modestly which party is the only party in Hungary, which, by selling the hallway of Hungarian citizenship, is supposed to have allowed dangerous elements to settle in Hungary: Fidesz-KDNP. What is the only party in Hungary in the written, well-known Hungarian history, which constantly imports foreign workers in the order of hundreds of thousands, and is likely to open the hall for their resettlement? His name is Fidesz-KDNP. So there are a lot of questions to explain, but I would ask you to try to go back to Hungarian reality instead of communicating with your own bubble of opinion and redecorating reality, because we would have common affairs. We would have agreements over the trenches, especially with regard to certain elements of the family support system, but with production reports in the '70s it won't work. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-11-05-6	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-05-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, Mr President, to respond in a few words to what has been said here by the left-wing Member. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: No left-wing representatives spoke... Defiance from the benches of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I understand this hurts you, but the fact remains a fact. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It doesn't hurt us! It's embarrassing for you. It doesn't hurt us! It's not your fault you don't understand... the president's ringing.]]
u2020-11-05-8	Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat, please calm down. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: I am completely calm!]]
u2020-11-05-9	So let's go first. As I understand it, Congressman has the biggest problem with style, I'm glad of that. There was a much bigger problem before 2010, when all family support was withdrawn from families. Now, as I understand it, your biggest problem is style. You mention a production report. I understand that it is an intellectually difficult situation that you have to criticize a government just because it is their self-interest in party politics, which has done so much for families, which, by the way, you acknowledge concrete steps, says that you consider it to be supportive. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You didn't understand!]] I understand that if there are so many things that we say, the Minister lists, then you must criticise this, you cannot just escape to the fact that this is a production report. But even if it were, the point of the production report is that it's based on facts. So here, the Minister has just given us facts about where we started in the area of family support and where we have come from. [[Dániel Z. Karpat presents the document on his phone.]] By the way, it is quite strange, Congressman, that you, who are, by the way, a combatant chaser of foreign exchange loans, quite rightly, because there is a huge risk of foreign exchange lending since the 2009 global economic crisis, and unfortunately millions of Hungarians have had to experience it, then you are in fact setting out as a model a situation, as you refer to the 2007 housing data, the basis of which is: [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I told you three times...]] it was currency lending. Foreign currency loans have heated the construction of new apartments. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You don't mean it either!]] So when you put this model in front of us as a model, when the number of apartments built from foreign currency loans was very high, and you say that this is the goal to be achieved and desired, I think you are contradicting yourself. We wouldn't want a house building boom like that again. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I can see that!]] which is essentially due to irresponsible foreign currency loans that the government and the central bank are irresponsiblely letting go of, which forced the Hungarian people into. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: With your assistance!]] His further claim that we should stick to the facts is that the birth of the first child is not supported by the government. Now, let us consider what the government is doing to support married people who do not even have children, but who want to have children. Let's start with the fact that there is a marriage tax reduction that can be used even before the first child is born. There's the baby shower support, about 10 million forints to wear. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] who does not have a child yet but wants to have a child and, for example, to be able to provide the child with the right conditions, say, to buy an apartment. But the honourable Member also missed generously that the CSOK could be accepted by families where there are no children, but they are planning to have children. There they can pick up the CSOK, use it to buy a new apartment, if they agree that the children will be born. He talked about demography. I didn't hear the Minister say that he was talking about a trend turnaround. He was just talking about the results that you've given me. In the context of the change of government, socialist economic policy has led to a historic decline in childbearing and fertility rates, and this has been improved. No one has said, and I think that might be a point of agreement, that we have to settle for as far as we got. No one's saying that, Congressman. The only thing is that the government measures that we have taken over the last ten years have contributed to achieving at least this far, that the number of marriages is increasing, that the desire to have children in Europe has increased to the highest and the best, the strongest degree; these are facts. [[9.50]] You say that emigration still contributes to this. Let's stick to the facts here. Last year was the first time that more people came home to Hungary, by the way, probably thanks to the family support system, which is unique in Europe than the number of people going out. I am not saying that the Canaan has come in this regard, and there is nothing to do. Yes, you do. Just make sure that the facts are not taken away and lied to the party's political interests. So much for what you said as a reflection. What is our foundation, the foundation of Fidesz-KDNP? It's that family comes first for us. As UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher used to say, I don't know a society, a man, a woman and a family, I know one. He meant to say that the family is the most important building block for a national community and that it should therefore be supported. Our policy also focuses on supporting families. In order for families to have children, it takes safety, a predictable family policy. We are on this path, which is the basis of our policy. Unfortunately, we have to say that, before 2010, having a child was, indeed, an undertaking of poverty, or a significant risk of having children. Well, that had to be eliminated, and our goal remains that children who want to have a parent can be born. Here is another small remark, Mr Z. Carpathian: no one wants to interfere in private matters, the most personal issue is how many children you wish to have. The government and Fidesz-KDNP undertake one thing: if anyone wishes to have a child, we will support it with all our might. These are the basics. Let's also say it's worth talking about how we got here today. What kind of family support system did left us with left-wing governance in 2010? On the one hand, although the opposite was promised in 2002, one of their first measures was to start to dismantle the family tax relief system, which was introduced by the first Orbán government, and they actually managed to implement it perfectly by 2010, the family tax relief was fully imposed, so there was no family tax reduction. All forms of home-building support have also been abolished. Before the 2008 crisis, you remember that there was some kind of action called home-building support, a nesting program, but in the end, criminal cases became a nasty failure. So there was no home-building support. In addition to these irresponsible economic policies and poor central bank management, people have been chased into foreign exchange loans, not fully informed of the risks involved. Then let us not even talk about the fact that employment was much harder during that period, tens of thousands of people lost their jobs. The fact is that the left-wing government tried to solve the economic crisis by putting additional burdens on workers. My fellow Member Varju also probably remembers the superbrutto. I think they could win a world economic championship with this measure, that they were able to tax even the money that the worker had never seen. So that's what the left-wing government could do. Now, that's the situation with the family support system in 2010. Plus, the state was in a very, very difficult situation on the outskirts of the state. Nevertheless, the Fidesz-KDNP government, as the family is the first for us, immediately started supporting families, and one of our first decisions was the introduction of family tax relief, and because foreign exchange lending was a serious problem, the issue of foreign exchange loans. Then we went along nicely: starting a family home-building discount, then complementing it with the village CSOK, then, in the last time, starting baby shower support, starting car shopping support, or taking care of daycare development, as it was also a very important measure to help women not have to choose between careers and having children, but trying to bring these two into line as much as possible, the cradle development will help. The fact is that, thanks to these measures, Hungary is able to produce results, the number of marriages is increasing, the number of abortions is decreasing. More than a thousand billion HUF remained in the family thanks to these measures. Childbearing, as I have already said, is constantly increasing. We're far from where we want to be, but it's constantly growing, and families have the courage to have children now. We also have to say that, thanks to these subsidies, Hungary is one of the most generous family support in Europe today, as more than 5 percent of GDP is spent on family support, otherwise this is unique in Europe, and it is probably due to this, as Minister pointed out, that the desire to have children has increased most in Hungary. Please, Mr Z. Kárpat, my fellow Member, let us be pleased with these results, taking note that we cannot sit back, but let us be happy about them. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: If there are results, I will celebrate you in the first row!]] And at least let's not discuss these results. We are here at the debate on a bill because we have also said many times that family support will never be a closed case for us. The government is constantly working on what new measures it can introduce in order to support families, a symbolic step in this was, by the way, the appointment of Katalin Novak as Minister. So here is a proposal that offers a wide range of help: tax exemption for CSOK properties, home renovation aid up to HUF 3 million, and then 5% VAT refund. This has already been introduced once by the Fidesz-KDNP government, and it has worked, but we have now thought that this should be reflected on the one hand in order to stimulate construction and support families. In fact, it's even been pushed by the fact that the CSOK homes won't even have to pay this 5 percent VAT, more precisely, but they can be reclaimed. There is also the multigenerational home-building support, which also helps. So what I want to say in Hungarian is that we are going forward, and, of course, as the Minister said, this series of measures does not end with our family support policy, but we are going to continue to look at how we can help families. Now there is a problem, a crisis that is not caused by us, but by a virus, but our policy is that it is best to help in such a difficult situation. In conclusion, we can therefore see that there are basically two types of crisis management in Hungary. One crisis management is that the government is trying to preserve the functioning of the state in such a way that workers, employers, businesses and families are sabotaged, they are subject to new taxes, and they are putting additional burdens on their shoulders in order to preserve the functioning of the state. Well, that's what the Left's crisis management policy was all about. Ours is the opposite of that. We believe that the best way to help businesses, workers and families is to help them when there is trouble. There is a problem now, so in this problem, as Hungary has so far conducted a responsible fiscal policy, there is a budget space to provide additional support to families, to keep their children safe, to have a roof over their heads, or even to start buying a new home or renovating their homes. [[10.00]] This is what our policy is all about, so the child and the family remain the first for us, so I would very much ask you to support this bill that we have before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-10	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. I give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-11-05-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! The Minister was given a very nice task, but also challenging. When the government wants to help families to solve their housing as easily as possible, it should also think of all the families who need it. Unfortunately, in the first sentence of the justification for the amendment, there is already a distinctive element: . The amendment aims to establish the already announced rate of 5 per cent of the general turnover tax on the sale of new housing for social policy purposes. Where is the social policy aspect in this programme, Mr State Secretary? After all, with family support, the government is targeting those whose votes it expects, and, by the way, it expects this middle class to improve the population situation. It is driven by electoral and population policy goals, and many are completely out of the government's mind. Those who raise their children as single women are widowed, where only a man has a job, so the single - search family, and all poor families who cannot meet the conditions for receiving the aid, that is, the needy ones. If this government had a social policy, it would be helping those in need, but the government has no social policy, it has only a cadre policy. There is no public housing programme today that specifically supports those living in a difficult queue, so I said at the beginning that this is unfortunately a good proposal in many of the other details. No government can be excluded, because the state must not serve the electorate of the party ruling the government, but everyone, because we cannot leave anyone on the side of the road. The CSOK is clearly a help to those who are not struggling with living problems; it gives more help to families who have more self - strength. It gives less to less affluent families, essentially nothing to the poor. If we add that in 2015 the Orbán government terminated the normative housing support and debt management service to the poorer families in relation to the running-up of the CSOK, then perhaps it is not exaggerating to talk about anti-poorness. So the poor family is no longer a family? Please, Mr. Secretary, think about this when you talk about family politics. So far, with the help of the CSOK, about 70,000 families have bought themselves real estate. What do you expect from the amendment just tabled? How many other families will benefit from this opportunity? And what about families who can't even pay the rent on their existing apartments, or those who don't have a decent home or anything? Let's look at some important details. At the beginning of October, the Minister said that, in addition to the VAT reduction, those who purchase a new construction property with CSOK can claim back the VAT content of 5% from January. However, there is no evidence of this in the proposal submitted. Why? Furthermore, we do not see the previous promise in the proposal that half of the housing costs for families with at least one child will be borne by the state up to HUF 3 million. Am I to understand that this opportunity has been excluded from the amendment? If that's the case, it's nothing more than a scam. Among the measures notified, the exemption from tax is an important help, as the Minister has also spoken about it. This is a very serious matter, and we support it, because it can remain with families who are about to find a home. At the same time, the VAT rate of 5% no longer necessarily relieves the financial burden on families, as these VAT reductions are often swallowed up by companies. At the same time, it would not be good for them to rush again and keep those affected in legal uncertainty, such as by once reducing the VAT to 5% and then erasing it and then bringing it back. They constantly vary by how to provide support to those in housing policy, but they always forget about the most difficult situations in the meantime. They do not support the housing and renovation of municipalities, even though the goal of acquiring an independent, mainly new, house is completely unattainable for hundreds of thousands of families. It can therefore be seen that the proposal you call the biggest home-building programme of all time is only a solution for a narrow circle. On this basis, the MSZP proposes that the aid scheme should be designed in such a way that it serves both to increase the number of housing constructions and to create a fair home, not only for families in good financial condition, but also for everyone. We consider it essential to support the government in the construction of the local government's apartments and in the renovation of the apartments. The government will determine the rate of the rent and housing ceiling on the basis of a new housing law. The Hungarian Socialist Party wants to provide real help to reduce the heating costs of families and the CO2 emissions of the domestic building stock. It is important for families to increase the energy efficiency of their homes without self-esteem and credit, with insulation, changing windows, modernising heating, from European Union and market sources. The whole point of the concept is that the cost of renovation is covered by saving energy costs that can be achieved through renovation. Therefore, we are initiating the creation of a home renovation fund. This saving of energy would substantially contribute to reducing the energy costs of the population, helping to meet climate protection targets and creating a significant order pool for the construction industry. The government should not block young people or the elderly from living in a modern, energy-efficient, low-cost apartment. On Monday, the Minister responded positively to my speech on pensions when she said that we should look ahead, she is a partner. I'm hoping for the same kind of thinking right now. There is a crisis, the consequences of which are unpredictable. And it's more affecting women in the front lines: health, social, trade, public education, and a list of women's careers. The virus doesn't spare an old man, a young man, a woman, a man, regardless of party position. I understand that the government and the Prime Minister are in a difficult situation, and it is difficult to make good decisions, but with reference to further tightening up, I ask that not the bans, not the tightening up, dominate the government's measures, but prevention and cooperation. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the bill. Thank you so much for listening. I am confident that the proposals we have made will be considered. Thank you.
u2020-11-05-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-05-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I think we are not in an easier position than the debate on several legislative proposals that started yesterday started with you taking the steps that can actually be seen as rushing, because they are trying to react to something, but they are actually unthinkingly doing this within the framework of Hungarian society, which does not examine the development of the Hungarian economy. You may be guided primarily by electoral considerations, and also in this case, when you are actually trying to correct some of the bad decisions you've made before, you are trying to take another step, such as in this initiative. If they were to comply with their own rules, the law which you have made, that they would otherwise amend such a powerful regulation with serious consequences, and that they would produce an impact assessment of the social and economic consequences of this, then I think they could be used to the solution that we could otherwise discuss and make recommendations on a common information base. [[10.10]] But more importantly, they'd see what they're doing with the consequences. And in this way, as indicated here by my fellow Members, it has already been shown that, as a result of their decisions previously decided or taken, the housing support system that they have created has led to a significant increase in housing prices, an increase in rent rates, which is, of course, not only due to this, but is more complex than that. But to respond to all of this is to take one more step towards the abyss, and to support people who, by the way, are far fewer people in the country than those who want to create a single home, but do not have the opportunity, well, this is definitely the wrong way to go. The consequence of this is that, in the absence of such analyses, you either do not notice or do not know or do not want to face the fact that there is a housing crisis in Hungary. And if that is the case, in the great crisis that has happened, and what you have to deal with here, then you really need to ask what it really is, what it is, or what it is, or what the purpose is for which you have actually taken this step. Because, as I said, they don't have those studies, or they don't provide us with decision-making, which is what the law requires you to do to help them make decisions. But you guys, let's just say it's happened more than once that you don't follow your own laws, and that's how you think. So, they make this decision, and they don't realize that the economic crisis, or the situation that has arisen, will not be enough in itself to deal with it. After all, if one of the priorities and half of the sentences here comes out both with the Minister and with the pro-government representatives, one of the important goals is that the construction capacity that you, you have built up, and as a strategic sector, there are a number of companies close to Fidesz, which are specifically behind you from this point of view, and, as a lobbyist, will guide you in the direction that, with the earlier wrong decision, let us say, the 5-percent VAT option that has been abolished... well, you will undo it, because otherwise what will happen to them. It could or could be this intention, I could say, I can say that you have actually admitted that the result of the work of these lobbyists is what we are now facing here. The other is what my fellow Member, Mr Kárpát, pointed out that it could also be that, if you could see how the demographic crisis is developing or how it is going, and you have been trying to take action in recent years, so let's say we take action, but, in fact, they don't really move forward and they don't want to talk about it; but as a way of dealing with the demographic crisis, they think that creating homes for young families will be the first important part that can actually be dealt with. I see that your ambition in this direction will not result, and here comes the third element, which you stress specifically: yes, the Hungarian people feel that the most important thing is to have an own-owned apartment. The main reason why we need an own-owned apartment is because, by the way, it is the wealth of people, the vast majority of families. Which, of course, also brings with it that all their creditworthiness is being invested in providing housing otherwise. And if you think about it, and I would like to make a meaningful impact on social processes, then there should also be an opportunity for a different solution than what you are currently offering here. However, before I go further on to other options and recommendations, I have to say again that instead of publicly carried out and presented analyses, they are saying political words that are so obvious that it is a lie that they refuse to take their own data into account. The first time I listened to the secretary, too, was to look at the file of the KSH, here, and look at it, Mr. Secretary, it is exactly here: before 2010, over 40,000 apartments were built in this country. Now I understand that they will refer to foreign exchange lending here, but remember, honourable government representatives, that at that time people believed that joining in 2004 would provide an opportunity for European convergence, including the adoption of the euro and its introduction in Hungary. The conditions for this have been met; unfortunately, a global economic crisis has crossed this. And the fact that this couldn't have happened was already caused by you, when two of your excellent fellow Members here, let's just say, practically ruined the exchange rate policy that they had before, and instead, both the municipalities, businesses and individuals, the people and families, were in a situation that was otherwise unmanageable to them. The fact that you didn't help them with this, just some of them, another part of the story, has continued to suffer the foreign exchange crisis and the consequences of which, by the way, is primarily the crime of the Fidesz-KDNP government and the crime of the Járai Zsigmond who was otherwise an accomplice in this, and has created this situation. As much as you like it or don't like it, that's the case. And that, by the way, you started another economic policy, people, let's just say, without informing people, without having them accepted, you just told them that they would continue and continue to do so... otherwise it would be better for the few, and it wouldn't be for the many. So I respectfully recommend your attention again to the register of the HCSO, but I am going back a step further than my fellow Member: even in 1943, during the war period, more apartments were transferred than otherwise in 2015 or 14 years. By the way, they were right to think that something had to be done about this step. That's when I tell you what you should or should have done instead. Since we cannot decide that you are proposing this primarily for the treatment of the economic crisis, for the management of lobbyists, because we do know that it does not really help the large majority of families, so it can be assumed that this is the first; and otherwise, in order to deal with the demographic crisis, the past years have proven to be inadequate, and then it must be said that they are taking a step again and again in a direction that is otherwise not good. Well, why don't they change that? Then, let's say, let's leave it to the people, to make changes, who think that it's not necessarily just and that the only solution is to have someone's own apartment, but to start a meaningful rental program. I don't care if it's local or state, to be honest. I'll put it in parentheses, maybe they can satisfy their friends, help them, but that's your problem, they'll take care of that with those lobbyists. But the point is that we need a rent-apartment scheme, which means that otherwise social mobility would remain much larger and that people would have more mobility to do so, and that, moreover, it would not tie down the family capital that would make it easier to organise their own lives. [[10.20]] In this respect, I can draw attention to the example in Újpest, where there are more than two thousand apartments, which the municipality must provide. By the way, the program is successful that the possibility of using the tenant's apartment depends on the fact that there are social tenants who are in need and not for housing support, but on the user alone, important for the tenant, there is also the second part, which is also supported, which is also cost-effective, in Hungarian, whatever it costs, but otherwise does not have to pay the tenant any more for it, so according to today's terms, it still rents the apartment for one third of the market rent, and the third element is, in fact, when the market is practically taken away, let's say that for what it costs, the tenants will be in a rental position. I think that this is not the only option, but given such experiences, it would be safe to launch a public housing programme, so that, by the way, young people who are really expecting their first child, or those who want to take the first steps of starting a family, perhaps even beyond Margaret Thatcher's recommendation, in Hungary we know more or less since 2010 that family is the most important element of society, which is why I think they could help them. I think it can and must be said that what you are doing in your support system, and what you stress and proudly refer to it, may be effective from your point of view, and I do not even rule out the fact that it is politically beneficial for you, but the biggest problem is that you leave very many people in poverty, who do not have the opportunity to actually take the first steps. The specifics, I think, will be given in the next comment. To sum up, therefore, in the crisis situation in Hungary, when there is a livelihood and housing crisis, this action you are initiating cannot be accepted in response to it. With all due respect, I would like to suggest that you draw up a rent-apartment construction programme that really gives hundreds of thousands of families the opportunity to move away from their impossible situation today, and do not leave those people in poverty, because otherwise you will be responsible for all of this. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-05-14	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-11-05-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is another package of the Fidesz government's home creation programme. I think that there are several elements of this package that are necessary, which can be supported, but I think that, given its direction, depth and consequences, it is partly in the wrong direction and partly in the wrong direction. We find that after the announcement of the CSOK, housing prices have increased, and now the government is forced to run for money as a result of its economic policy. On the one hand, because it is visible, and the Hungarian National Bank has already stated this year that there is a housing crisis in Hungary. At the same time, I think the most questionable part of this package, which is ahead of us, is the modification of the 5% new housing tax. Minister Katalin Novák started her expo without children, without a Hungarian family, and she is absolutely right. But we also need to see that there is no future for Hungarian families if Hungary's tax policy ex has rests on random decisions, instead of following a well-read, understandable social policy. I think that 5 percent VAT, like all VAT cuts, could be good, of course, but perhaps in the crisis situation in which our country is today, typically due to the epidemic, it is not certain that this VAT reduction is what the government should do. Why is that? On the one hand, because the VAT refund could get the VAT back anyway, and on the other hand, because basic foods today receive such a heavy tax burden, which causes the majority of families a problem that it is difficult to buy basic foods on the table. I think it is worth going through at this time, because the other keynote speakers have also gone through how we have come to this point, and I think we should talk about the housing crisis that forces, for example, the bill before us, why it is necessary or why it has come to our table. I think that we need to go back to foreign exchange lending here, and, yes, I think that the Fidesz-KDNP government has an extraordinary responsibility in this. In part, because the foreign currency loan supported by Zsigmond Járai was able to spread in the country at all, but this is the smaller one, because I accept the defence that Zsigmond Járai could not have known it would happen, but I also think that the way you handled the foreign currency credit crisis is not only unacceptable, but it is also outrageous and antihumanity. Let's look at what happened when you were trying to protect the people who had foreign exchange loans. In the first round, the final repayment was introduced, where debtors in a good economic situation, i.e. not affected by the crisis, were able to save themselves through a very favourable exchange rate in time from foreign exchange credit or foreign exchange credit trap; then, in the second round, the total loss of foreign exchange loans being paid to people, fixed and placed on their necks. I think that this could not have happened for anything other than a pact with the EBRD, where the Hungarian government did not commit to helping our fellow countrymen in difficulties with foreign exchange loans, but instead undertook in the EBRD pact not to make a decision that would reduce the profitability and profit-making capacity of the banking system. It's written down. I think that it is printed in the pockets of all opposition representatives, saving you from making such a pact with the international banking system. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Banker's Government!]] I think it is worth going through here why there is a housing crisis in Hungary. On the one hand, as a result of these decisions, more than four thousand apartments are emptied each year in implementation. These families will all remain without a roof, or at least the vast majority of them will be sure, and the question arises here, then, to whom is this bill before us? [[10.30]] Dear House, This bill favours two social groups as well as a social group and a well-defined economic group: on the one hand, it promotes the sale of companies interested in the construction sector, on the other hand, it helps the top 10 percent of Hungarian society in an existential sense. It is no coincidence that both Katalin Novák and my colleague Mónika Duna brought up the example of a 50 million HUF flat. 50 million forints! [[Dunai Mónika: Whether!]] 50 million forints! [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] 50 million forints for one apartment! [[Nacsa Lawrence: Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Do you think it's an average family where, say, one parent is a teacher, and the other is a fellow public servant who earns about 250 thousand forints net each, so that they can borrow so much money into the elf, say, at the age of 38, so that they can buy a flat of 50 million forints, as you and your two have told me once again? Because that's what happened! Because, as a result of your economic policy, housing prices have more than doubled between 2010 and 2020, I am talking about average prices of 300 thousand forints. [[She's in her notes.]] They grew to 763 thousand forints over 700,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the case that forces you to bring such a proposal in here, by the way. Unfortunately, this will not solve the housing crisis, as it remains unattainable for the low 60-70 percent in the existential sense, that is certain. What we see is that practically a young couple at the beginning of life should present themselves even in the event of receiving the support, Mr Secretary of State, for more than HUF 10 million in part. I think that if you had supported in time the initiatives that served to build the rental system, then in parallel such a proposal could only be praised. But you have always, always and consistently refused to do so, because, how you put it, it is property that arises as a social need. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] You might as well be right in this part, but by the time you get to the property, you're gonna have to live somewhere, and you're gonna have to live somewhere, and you're not gonna notice that. They just don't notice people whose income levels are substantially below the standard of living you're used to back home. In addition, we can also see precisely that with this decision the Hungarian government will cut down the otherwise correct spring law on the areas of action in the rust zone. We would very much support the support of construction projects that build in such rusty areas in brown areas, so that they would motivate these companies, because they are so kind to you that the construction works will finally be carried out on non-coastal, high-value real estates. Therefore, we will propose that the government only reduces the overall sales tax on new-built real estate in areas where the development of real estate is not carried out on land, forest, grassland or other natural land, where construction is not carried out in a 1 km band of natural watercourses or lakes, or where there is no access to a 5-percent VAT reduction in areas where construction results in a significant reduction in the biological activity of the area. I think sustainability must be seen in all areas. Unfortunately, this sustainability does not appear in this law. This law is not available to the majority at all, and I think that it must be made clear to everyone that the reason why it is necessary to have this law before us is because I acknowledge that it is necessary, it can be derived from some of the items. I've already mentioned the EBRD pact that you have betrayed those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. The consequences of this are also included in the housing crisis, but there are economic policy consequences in the housing crisis, as a result of which, today, we are talking about an average property, because not today, but in the first quarter of 2020, we are talking about a price of more than HUF 760,000. And let us not forget that the euro exchange rate is on unprecedented scale. Do you know what the euro/forint exchange rate was yesterday? It was 364 forints. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] the central exchange rate of the National Bank, and I think this should be considered, because as a result of this economic policy, we see that there is an unattainable distance to buy an apartment today, as a result of this economic policy, we can see that the price of basic food has gone away. If you were to show a decent and healthy social picture and social policy in any way in the tax system, you would first reduce the VAT on basic foods and then submit a family support system supplemented by a rent-apartment scheme that can provide real help to the majority; not just for the small minority, not just for those who are otherwise in crisis. My fellow Members have talked a lot about the fact that few children are born during the speech. This can be changed if the lower 60 percent in the economic sense also feel existentially secure. Yes, my fellow Members, until you can provide us with a long-term planable security for our fellow citizens, there will be no substantive change in this, and unfortunately this objective cannot be achieved by this proposal, despite the fact that I started with which it has parts that are eligible and to be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, For the fifteenth time, I ask you to make proposals that represent the interests of society as a whole. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and not those that represent the top ten thousand and their economic interests. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2020-11-05-16	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2020-11-05-17	Mr President, Dear House, My esteemed colleague Hollik's government has been trying to explain its miserablely poor housing performance by saying that we are setting the era of the rise of foreign exchange credentials as a pattern. That's bullshit, Congressman. If you knew the data, you'd look into the data, what would you see? In 2002, we were still at the beginning of the foreign exchange loan, even after your man released the spirit from the bottle with unilateral treaty modifications, but the loan has not yet run up to 31 thousand new-built apartments, in 2009 31 thousand new-built apartments, during your time 7 thousand, 9 thousand, 10 thousand, 12 thousand. [[10.40]] Between the two, in 2004, when a measurable number of so many loans had not yet been issued, there was a run-up of about tens of thousands in the number of apartments, and in the meantime, hundreds of thousands of foreign currency loans were unfortunately released into the neck of the population, but identifying this tens of thousands of upshots would be at least a professional mistake, fellow Members. There are over 10,000 records, and this is yours: since 2010, your chemically pure neoliberal government has evicted more than 12,000 families from their homes without accommodation. So there are tens of thousands of data that exist. You talk about home creation, family support, while more than tens of thousands of those in the most difficult situation have been thrown on the streets without even taking care of the grounds of placement. The day before yesterday, in Csepel, in your district, the mayor could have given an extension, a delay in the case of a needy mother and a man working under difficult circumstances. They didn't give me this extension. During yesterday, five eviction requests were received: November 11th, November 12th, Szentendre; November 12th, Érd; November 10th, Nyírpalota, fourth experiment; and another November 11th. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We've also received an alarm from Pécs. So this is your real face. If you have humanity, you'll be at these locations next week and stop this madness. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-05-18	Thank you very much, Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga DK for two minutes.
u2020-11-05-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm listening to the debate here. In the first place, Hungarian society, the Hungarian families, are trapped in a kind of a 22-something trap. They buy or try to buy an apartment because, on the one hand, my colleague Varju Laci says it's their only asset and, on the other hand, because they know very well that the money can be held in such a way that it doesn't devalue itself. On the other hand, because there are simply no apartments for rent. And you are referring to the fact that the Hungarian people's spirit is such that it prefers to buy apartments, even above power, instead of renting. And that's why they don't build, but that's not true. Things have changed, you know. As long as it was difficult for a family to leave a village in the past, it is now, if it could, because social mobility, with the change of jobs, is significantly greater than before; because we can see very well that it is developing so that whoever can do this simply escapes Hungary, who has the opportunity, rather chooses to build a new life somewhere on the happier half of Europe. But you are not giving these people, these young, vibrant, workable people and families the opportunity to give them a rental program. I do not want to bring here the Swedish, Dutch examples, where otherwise public housing programs give people and family creators the opportunity that if they change their jobs, employment and working conditions, they can go to another city at any time. The problem here is that by not having this opportunity, these Hungarian families are bound to a clot. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much. I'll keep going. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2020-11-05-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-05-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We've heard a lot of things here in the last hour and a half, and the statements we've heard from Dániel Z. Kárpát, László Varju or Antal Csárdi are not often heard here. The Jobbik refers to a production report. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] He forgets that we are talking about facts, he forgets that these data are facts, he forgets that these results that we have achieved in recent years thanks to the measures of the Hungarian economy, Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses and, of course, the Hungarian government. Dániel Z. Kárpát recalled the atmosphere of the seventies, and then, with his next sentence, he said why the state did not interfere with the issue of private property and the rental market. So the echte communist tempo is what Dániel Z. Karpát is saying here, how he believes private property and contracts between two individuals should be relegated to rent. The change in thinking that has taken place in recent years since the family-friendly turn in 2010, the social shift, the family-friendly approach that can be seen in society, is shown by the figures: the unprecedented number of marriages have never married so many, the number of divorces is at a low point; the fertility rate is constantly increasing, and the number of abortions is constantly decreasing. I think these four figures are a very good indicator of the social shift that has taken place with the introduction of a family-friendly approach, because while, before 2010, the commitment of children meant poverty, before 2010, when a person had a child, it meant poverty, that is no longer the case. We want those who have children to be better off than those who do not have children. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai said that Fidesz-KDNP would like to build a family support system for those to whom she expects to vote. That is true; we would like to build a family support system for everyone, and we are counting on the vote for everyone, as the family policy measures in recent years have shown us that the broadest possible layer is affected by the family policy measures introduced by the government. Until the last budget adopted by you left-wing representatives in 2010 reached HUF 1000 billion for family support, this year it will be HUF 2300 billion, and thanks to the bill that we are discussing now, this will increase even further next year, i.e. by two and a half times the amount we spend on family support in one year, as your last adopted budget. I would like to signal to Mr Csárdi: Minister Katalin Novák said that she could live in a flat of up to HUF 50 million; and he explained with mathematical examples what it could show there. But it's interesting that, as a city councilman in the first district, you've probably never met a price like this before. And when you claim that the value of real estate has doubled in recent years, it is good for your constituents, honourable Member. He spits at your constituents when he attacks these processes, because the value of their apartments and properties and their assets have increased significantly over the last few years, and you're just trying to deny it. I would like to tell Congressman Varju that it was your friend András Simor, who released the foreign exchange loan. Your friend, András Simor, who has exported billions abroad, not here in the Hungarian economy, but here in the Hungarian economy, but in some secret place to enjoy tax relief and hide it; he was the one who, by the way, released foreign currency loans, who did nothing at the head of the National Bank to order foreign exchange loans to stop; who did nothing to warn people of the risks of this highly dangerous construction. So I'd like to ask for less modesty. And speaking of the Newpest example, I thought you were going to say to the example in Újpest that you managed to build a tent in front of the municipality building in several weeks. He's given me another example in Newpest, but I was hoping he'd mention that all of your achievements over the past few months have been in crisis management, building a tent in Newpest. Let us look at the differences in crisis management, because I think that no one has said today in Parliament how great it is that in the middle of a crisis we are talking about expanding family support and home-building programmes. I think it is very important to stress that in the middle of a crisis, the government does not squeeze, raise taxes, but expands family support and expands home-building programmes. Let's see what happened in 2008-2009. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that on 21 October 2007 there was a 5 percent government deficit, there was no crisis; László Varju remembered it together with Dániel Z. Kárpát, but the general government deficit was already 5 percent, and the former Minister of State of the Ministry of Economy can confirm that on 21 October 2008 Ferenc Gyurcsány said that we would only be affected by the wind of the crisis, and then on 27 October, six days later, the IMF was called in. Six days later, when he said here in Parliament that we would only be hit by the wind. What happened to crisis management in 2008? The public sector's gross salary was frozen for two years and the 2009 report was withdrawn. ANNEX II a mid-term application. At the time, the families whose members worked in the public sector were expecting that supplement, but you simply withdrew it. [[10.50]] The 13th month's wages were abolished, the municipal subsidies were reduced, the municipalities never suffered as much reduction as in 2008-2009, the 13th month's pension was abolished and the 2009 and 2010 pension corrections already announced were withdrawn. You're here to talk about the poorest layers, you're here to talk about the pensioners, while the pensioners have already counted on that amount, and you've simply withdrawn it. Gas price and district heating compensation have been discharged. Who did gas and district heating compensation help if not the poorest layers? You led this out. Support for public transport has been reduced and tickets and rents have been constantly increased. This is your crisis management! While parking now became free so that during the epidemic people would not use public transport so much and compressed the flights, during the same period, you constantly increased ticket and rent prices in the middle of a crisis. The national share of EU agricultural subsidies has also been reduced. People who live in agriculture and their families have reduced their national share of EU funding. Let's take a look at the tax increases. It's your favorite. The property tax has been raised and extended, personal income tax has been raised at the lowest limit of your multi-key system than the single-key tax has now been reduced to 19 percent of the lower limit of personal income tax, the lowest key of your multi-key system. Corporate and dividend taxes have also been increased and converted. The simplified business tax was also increased. VAT has been raised, excise duty has been raised, energy tax has been raised, car tax has been raised, property acquisition tax has been transformed and increased and the tax on district heating has been increased. These were voted personally by László Varju, Gyula Molnár, too. These tax increases were personally voted in favour. Congressman Csárdi! In 2018, you and LMP had a property tax increase. You would've put a property tax on apartments downtown, and now you're talking about housing subsidies! This was your crisis management, the continuous tax increase, and Dániel Z. Karpát, Csaba Gyüre, Antal Csárdi and Bence Tordai now want to help the same people back into power. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Speak of evictions, my friend.]] I've heard it too, Congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] With all of his speeches, all of his Facebook posts, all of his activities, Dániel Z. Kárpát helps Ferenc Gyurcsány to get back into power while otherwise 12 kinds of taxes were raised in 2008 and 2009 in the middle of the crisis. Talk about how these tax increases affected the poorer sections you mentioned here, how families were affected, how pensioners were affected, these infinitely vile and otherwise imposed by the IMF on you, tax increases, pension cuts! By the way, retirement age has also been increased prematurely. This is a mean move against Hungarian society, Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. You've been talking about poverty, the more decomposed layers. Let's see how the standard of living of households is established in the KSH report, the full year 2018 and the year 2019 will soon come out! Consumption expenditure per capita increased by 34.5 percent in real terms from 2010 to 2018. You are here painting the picture as if people are living worse in this country, and family support measures and anti-poverty measures are only the top, I don't know, 10%, or that Mr Csárdi said he would help. The number of people affected by severe material deprivation has decreased since 2010. Congresswoman Gurmai has brought up the bills here. You have raised electricity and gas prices fifteen times, and then you have not supported the reduction of the overhead. Fifteen times! Who do you think is the most affected by the continuous increase in overhead that Hungarian families have had to suffer in the socialist government? The top 10 percent or not? Answer me this, Your Honour, because you want to bring these back to power. Payment backs related to credit or housing amounted to 24.4 per cent in 2010 and fell below 11 per cent in 2018. The lack of funding for unexpected expenditure affected 74 percent in 2010, honourable Member, and fell below 33 percent in 2018. Those who did not have a car for financial reasons were above 23 per cent in 2010 and fell below 13 per cent in 2018. The year's absence of a week's holiday was 66 percent due to the blessed activity of the Gyurcsánys. This has now fallen below 40 percent, and with the Erzsébet camps it will continue to decrease to less than 35 percent this year. The lack of meat consumption every other day was 30 percent in your time, which is now down to 12 percent. The lack of proper heating of the apartment, because this was also mentioned, and when Dániel Z. Kárpát talks about this, the lack of proper heating of the apartment was 13 percent during the time of the left-wing representatives, which has now fallen below 5 percent. So the severe material depriviation rate, which affects at least four of these items, has decreased from 24 percent to 8 percent. The number of birds in Hungary has decreased over the last ten years, who are considered to be exposed to severe material deprivation. Four million more people have money for unexpected expenses than in 2010. You cannot say or deny the reality that the Hungarian family support system and the Hungarian economic policy measures would otherwise not be effective or effective, for example, the public work programme. Four million more people have money for unexpected expenses than in 2010. Because you destroyed the country at the time, your crisis management was to raise taxes, to squeeze taxes, to constantly hit families and Hungarian businesses, while, by the way, in 2008-2009, the Prime Minister's release of protocol increased to an unprecedented extent, and I note this only in parentheses, and by the way, with András Simor, the money was unloaded from the country, and the state's wealth became private property with a noble simplicity during the robbery privatisation. This is your crisis management balance. This is the crisis management that Dániel Z. and Antal Csárdi would like to bring back to Hungary [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] 'Cause there's no doubt about it when you get involved with DK. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] 'Cause there's no doubt about it when you get together with DK (the president's gonna ring the bell.) When you team up with the MSZP, it's exactly the world you want to bring back. You personally, your party and its party president want to bring this world back (Dániel Z. Karpát intervenes) And Mr Csárdi also wants to bring this world back to Hungary, with the result only a tax increase, only a austerity and only the humiliation of the Hungarian families from whom the housing support system was taken away. László Varju talks about home support systems and home creation systems by pressing the button without any remorse at the time when people were deprived of the housing support system, the home creation system, and when they took away the support for favourable housing loans. Gyula Molnár pressed the button without any problems, and yet everyone is saying what kind of home creation program they think should be built in Hungary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You took the apartments!]] Congressman, I've heard it too. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Today, we keep jobs in Hungary in the crisis, create jobs, increase investment, expand family support, expand the home creation system, and bring back the 13th month pension. The opposite is what you did in 2008 and 2009, and now you want Hungary to have a tax increase again, austerity again and hurting families again. We and the Hungarian people don't want any of this! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-05-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The next speaker is Congressman Bence Tordai, notary, Dialogue.
u2020-11-05-23	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-05-24	Notary Bence of Turdai, please. [[László Varju: You'll get a microphone! Intervention from the opposition benches: Submit it in writing!]]
u2020-11-05-25	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr President, and also for the microphone. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Now, we should be discussing another element of Fidesz's home creation program, but we really need to look at the point, look at the big picture. The point is that Fidesz' housing policy always supports the richest tenth. I ask you, who has 800,000 or 1 million forints to pay for a square meter of new apartments today. Which young couple has 20 million forints on an ordinary two-bedroom apartment that the secretary talked about? These lucky few, one out of ten Hungarians are the ones who can afford this, and 90 percent are not offered any solution. Dialogue is a green left party, the principle of which is that everyone matters, everyone deserves decent housing. The two most important conditions for enforcing the right to life are basic income and the right to housing, a shelter above the head of all people. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is not the government's job to help those who can do this on their own, on their own initiative, but to support those who cannot do so on their own, by their own means. [[11.00]] You claim that it is very important for population policy to have as many children as possible in Hungary, and yet you seem surprised that the planned children will not be born in Hungary. Why? Why? I'll tell you this: because young people can't move apart, so they can't have children, start a family. 62 percent of young people under the age of 35 still live with their parents, and this rate has steadily deteriorated and has increased in recent years. So what we really need is to solve housing problems and housing problems for the majority of society, 90 percent and especially young people. We have seen over the past ten years that housing prices and rents have gone off roughly, in eight years, between 11 and 19 the average rental fee has increased by 90 percent, almost double, in Budapest by 130 percent, almost two-and-a-half times. They simply cannot afford this, since incomes have not kept up with this growth. Meanwhile, we see that two thirds of Hungarian families still have no substantial savings, they cannot pay a share, so they have no chance of getting their own apartment. Faced with this situation, the majority of young people today have no realistic chances of paying off their own share and then managing the repayments of the credit they would require to obtain a new apartment. In fact, the situation is even worse. In the year of the families, more than 3,000 families were evicted in the Orbán regime, today more than 300,000 people live in slums in Hungary, and nearly 3 million people live in homes that are unhealthy or uncomfortable, unageable and energy-spoken. This is a serious housing crisis, and the Fidesz government has no recipe, no solution. That is why the opposition must offer a recipe for this, because after 2022 there will be a change of government in the interests of all our hopes and 90 percent of the people, and then we will have to implement a housing policy that is organised around the next points. That is obviously the offer of the Dialogue, which I am saying, but I believe that there is broad agreement within the opposition in elements such as this. The first is to guarantee the right to housing. How is it that a child in a country today gets evicted, his parents put on the street, and they take him out of his family and put him in a children's home? 'Cause that's what they do, even though it's illegal, but it happens all the time. So the first thing we're gonna do is put the ban on eviction without accommodation under the law. We must prevent becoming homeless and, to this end, we must, among other things, rebuild the debt management service. Next thing you know, it's the apartment building. When a local government social tenement is empty and tendered for it, they apply for hundreds. How can it be if you think you're handling the housing situation so well, that crowds are waiting for affordable apartments? [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]] Today in Hungary a total of 1.5 percent is one and a half percent! the proportion of available social housing, so this social housing sector must be strengthened and expanded in the hands of public and municipal authorities, so that 100,000 new apartments and social housing can be built in one cycle. In addition, it is also necessary to increase the number of college seats for young people, to create 25,000 new dormitory seats and to create this during a cycle. In fact, I'm going further, point 3 is to create social housing agencies, because while tens of thousands of people are sleeping on the streets, hundreds of thousands of flats stand empty in Hungary, because their owners do not dare, they don't want to get in the way of the rent. By setting up social housing agencies, as the dialogue mayor Márta Naszályi now makes it possible, with the help of the Utca-Building Association, to involve the private estates in the rental of the apartment, security for the owner and affordable housing for the landlord. In addition, for every development, for every new house construction, for every condo investment, a certain proportion of the apartments must be converted into a rental apartment, only to be granted a permit if the investor undertakes to do so! Point 4 is the rent ceiling. I know our colleague, Lőrinc Nacsa, is going to start communisting, but the thing is, you can't just pay rent, rent, rent, rent. The rent for an average apartment in Budapest is HUF 150,000, and the minimum wage is HUF 107,000 net, so it costs one and a half minimum wage to pay for an apartment, and then he didn't pay his rent, where his deposit came from, let's not even think about it, and then he didn't live, he didn't buy himself anything to eat, drink, and so on. The price conditions have been quite ridiculously upset. Yes, prices must be broken down, and rents should be limited in a manner similar to that of communist Berlin, so that if it is possible to regulate in the capital of Germany how much a municipal or even private apartment can be rented, it can be done in Budapest and in all the cities of Hungary. In this connection, however, short-term housing expenditure should be very strictly regulated, i.e. Airbnb and its associates, which the Fidesz government refused to do, but now, in times of crisis, it would be a very good opportunity to restructure this entire market and say that the apartment is not a hotel. The apartment is for housing, not for the fun of tourists, but for Hungarian families. That's what they should understand. As point 5, first of all, we need to launch housing programmes, which may be the most effective solution to homelessness, to convey the view that access to housing, the solution to housing is not a goal, but a prerequisite for reintegrating into society, and this is a social investment that will be made in the very short term, so that if someone needs to spend huge money, instead of the social care system and the health care system, but on the contrary, he will be a productive member, a contributor to the common cash register, and then we can count on each other, they should be able to count on the state's help. Homelessness must be eliminated in Hungary. Point 6 is rehabilitation, because in the middle of Europe in 2020 it is simply impossible to allow hundreds of thousands of people to live in homes in places that are uncomfortably similar to those of the third world. We know that there were previously intentions for this, and we also saw that they were not particularly effective, so unlike previous practices, it is not only the settlements that need to be liquidated or renovated, but also the launch of a complex, multi-legged program with educational, labour market, health care legs, behind which social care is also there. So this is not just a housing policy, it is a broad programme for social reintegration, this is what more than 300,000 people in Hungary need. The 7th point, which may affect most people, is a self-destructive self-efense! home renovation program, as I have already said, there are nearly 3 million people now living in apartments, houses that are unhealthy, that cause ill health, that are not suitable for housing, that are not suitable for energy efficiency, that are not comfortable, that are not connected to public utilities, and so on. If we are to help at the same time improve Hungarian living conditions and move to a climate-neutral economic model, then it is quite clear what we need to do: the EU funds that the Union is giving us for house renovation and energy modernisation, they should not be spent by the government itself and on entrepreneurs close to the government, but should be dedicated to renovating the homes of Hungarian people. This is hundreds of billions of forints a year, from which it is possible to start and implement a wide-ranging renovation program, worth millions in a few years. If we follow this direction for many years and cycles, that if we follow this seven-point program, we can solve the housing crisis, and then Hungary will have a housing policy that is in the interests of 90% of society, not the elite. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-26	Thank you, Congressman Bence Tordai, for your speech. Next is Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2020-11-05-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We are living in one of the rare moments when I have to agree with Congressman Nacsa, who said that a family-friendly turn has taken place at the beginning of your governance, and that has been going on ever since. Congressman, you are very right, there is only one big problem: these families we know by name, the family of István T., the Matolcsy family, the Mészáros family bar, there is now a little mix-up, and the Orbán family. [[11.10]] There are certainly one or two other families that you support, but in fact, the great losers of your government are precisely those who want to create a real home. You said that the production report is good because it is true. There's only one problem that your production report is a liar. Because you report to propaganda everything that has nothing to do with reality. They refer to the baby shower credit, only with the baby shower credit, just like with the CSOK, those who get the chance to vote with their feet now, they simply don't answer. You can see that at the beginning of the year the rate of baby shower loans has fallen to less than half. And we also know very well that from the beginning of the year there is also a 6.61 percent interest on this interest rate after the end of this interest rate, plus a so-called state guarantee fee of 3-4 thousand forints, while in March a 5.9 percent APR could be used as a personal loan. There has been a lot of talk, for example, about how successful your government is, because most of the marriages of all time are now tied up and the desire to have children is growing. We know very well, and these are statistical facts, figures, that on average 1.4 of the three children are born. A lot of people recorded or tried to pick up the CSOK, who, after the initial hopes, are likely to be disappointed with a bitter taste in the mouth, since we also see that six divorces out of every ten marriages end, and these divorces usually occur in the first few years. However, for families who have hired the CSOK and for whatever reason can't produce the three children for you, you have to pay them back at a hard penalty rate. In addition, this is so high that, in particular in the event of a divorce, the amount of credit received for the house or apartment cannot simply be secured by the house or apartment that has been built, purchased. Of course, it is easy to say what a great home creation program you are. If we look all over Europe at what really helps to increase the number of children in a country, then it is very clear that there is little if such programmes are advertised by different governments. This requires the provision of services. In France, Sweden, or anywhere else, they provide special services to families who have children, either by helping them raise children, or by providing them with other opportunities and services. By the way, I was amazed to hear from Congressman Nacsa's list, and I was wondering who you think this is going to convince. A list of the eight years past ten years, which, by the way, I must add, half of it is not true, do you think it will relieve you of any responsibility? Taking money from the children that are now born and giving it to the families of the Prime Minister and the oligarchs? Do you think that's a good point? Because I don't think so. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat, Jobbik.
u2020-11-05-29	Mr President, Dear House, Yet, there would have been an opportunity for this to be a constructive, productive debate. It didn't. For the sake of my fellow Member Nacsa, I would like to clarify, beyond the fact that I was not led by former KIS Secretarys or Communist functionaries, I did not run from the Liberal International, I did not leave the Trianon Memorial in Parliament, I did not shout that I was on my knees, I was free from these, until your party family was free. I did not declare abroad that millions of migrants need to be introduced to preserve the sustainability of the economy, I did not demand a global quota at the UN, and I did not wish to introduce similar solutions. I understand you're staring down at me, because it's either your prime minister or one of your party leaders who committed these crimes; you'll account for it with your conscience. Now, let's talk a little bit about the communist legacy you have established in economic policy. Whole economic sectors have been collectivised, and I am not only referring to tobacco shops that lied to the national, but also to the fact that entire economic sectors have been swallowed up and swept down attices in an amazing way. And when I note that high real estate prices are a problem for Hungarian families, you start communisting. Let me get this straight, fellow Member. When prices in the Budapest New Housing Market increase by 70 per cent between the fourth quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of 2019, i.e. in three and a half years, from 500,000 to 840 thousand forints, you say that this is a market process, this government has nothing to do with this, there is no need to intervene, there is nothing to do with this, there is nothing to see here, to disperse? Is that what you're saying? [[István Hollik: What is the alternative? The president's ringing the bell.]] Because then we understand the chemical-clear neoliberal government's further actions, the evicted people, the families left on the streets. What is the option and what is the alternative? Then let me start a little debate on the opposition side here. Here, I do not think it is the Berlin-type ceiling and the imposition of public prices, because I believe that, in the case of such solutions, the difference, i.e. the amount above the ceiling, is simply put into pocket by the tenants and the landlords, which, by strengthening the black economy, I do not think is in the interest of the national economy. I'll tell you what a professional government would do. And you have Mihály Varga sitting with you, so there are experts sitting with you who I'm sure have a better understanding of the market, so let's be honest with each other. When the Hungarian National Bank led by Matolcsy brings out in its reports that you are facing a housing crisis or a demographic crisis, and even according to the MNB, the minimum number of births per year would be 110 thousand, which would make the system sustainable, but we know how far away we are from that, then we need to discuss something. There is a clear supply shortage on the market. The number of newly built apartments is dramatically, brutally low. The government didn't keep the new builder's VAT stable at 5 percent, but samba on this issue: it introduced it twice, closed it three times. Now he's going to say, "Whoa, five percent of the new builder's apartment tax." Only in the meantime, the market is unpredictable; it is introduced one year and withdrawn in the next year, because, Mr Secretary of State, the desire to build homes has increased by that and so much, but the fact is that the number of newly built apartments is still a fraction of the number of one and two decades ago. In the case of such a supply shortage, which also pushed rent prices up to the sky with Airbnb, the solution is to widen the supply side. How can we achieve this? On the one hand, by increasing the number of newly built apartments and on the other by strengthening the rental segment. In 2012, you received the recipe for this. We, Jobbikos, put our program on the table and would have had an annual budgetary impact of between HUF 100 and HUF 150 billion at the time. I won't say too much if I say that there is a basis for this in the current budget. What is the point of the concept, fellow Members? 5-10 thousand new-built apartments per year, all with central acquisition of materials, so prices can be kept more moderately and with qualified Hungarian contractors. If the Hungarian workforce receives such a long-term order, it may even stay in Hungary and try to prosper, and not go abroad to strengthen other national economies. Then families must be allowed to move in so that they are not allowed to enter the market for the rent of 150-160 thousand, but for, say, half or even less. [[11.20]] If the minimum conditions for social co-existence are met, these properties must be purchased at cost after 6-8 years. Thus, the government's intention to attach to a nugget is transformed into a motivational intention, so this Hungarian youth can have property at cost. You may feel better, you might stay here in the country, you might want to take on your desired children here, because we have a real hidden resource, this is that the number of children you want in Europe is perhaps one of the highest in Hungary. There's no argument between us, is there? The chasm begins with a relatively small number of children that are longing for. I understand that they are trying to reassure themselves by increasing the number of marriages that I welcome, and it is a good thing, but it cannot be said that certain forms of family support are provided only for married people. In this way, a motivational factor has appeared that will undoubtedly increase the number of marriages. I welcome that, but let's not admit that the climate in Hungary is so much safer. I agree with my fellow Members on one more thing. I also welcome the high level of family-type expenditure in Hungary in international comparison. That's a bit of a statistical trick, but even if I take the question mark out of it, it's still a high percentage, and that's a good thing. What can be taken out of it? For more than 200 billion people, the basic amount of pension support for the Women's 40, which will not be included in family policy in any European national economy, but let's give it to you, after all, is only 200 billion, more lost than Mohács. But even if we subtract these, there will still be a high amount of international comparison. What you are forgetting is what a fellow opposition member said as a sentence, I know that representatives of different parties rarely praise each other, but I must commend Antal Csárdi, because indeed, the existential safety of the lower 60 percent is the key to this whole issue. If we look at the fact that they spend a lot on family support, relatively few people can make use of it, because we can see that even the number of newly built apartments is falling very quickly compared to the previous one, they give less new builders the same or even more support mass, so we can see that it is needed for a newly built residential property, but it does not help those in a classic Hungarian living situation. At the same time, in addition to Malta, Hungary has the most narrow unemployment benefit system. So you're giving me the benefit of the lucky, the rich, but they forget that one of the pillars of having children is that if I lose my job, they shouldn't leave me on the side of the road or throw me down with napalm instead of helping me. This horror is happening in Hungary. Let's look at the evictions, the brutal executions. Speaking of which, it was KDNP that I applauded my hands bloody, and I was so glad that a few years ago they announced that implementations should be slowed down a little, so that they would not take the property of Hungarians at 20-30 percent. They said that this should start from 100 to 90 percent, so you can't rob the Hungarians, and I was very happy about it. It also went through a tightening then. This year, however, it is very quiet, and I hope that my fellow Member Hollik will have a reaction to this, that he has been re-amended to the implementing law, and that from 1 January 2021 the auctions will be directed to the accelerator band. Much faster auctions, apartments that can be sold at a much lower price, shortened terms will surround our fate, with the eviction of a lot of people and the mere acquisition of the property against which you presented a proposal to Parliament for sale for pennies, and I supported it. But back to our basic topic, I have to say, I think the money spent on the family support system is outstanding. That's good, let's agree on that. I think their distribution is based on a terrible neoliberal model. I'm not sorry about the guy who buys a property at the condo park, say, $140 million, but I'm saying he's not in need. His perceived demographic goals and family planning goals are not helped by his buying a new residential property, if he already has one, or if the family member has one, and they live in it in a way of life, and they already have three children. What I'm saying is that where there should be very serious interference, it's that a child should be born after the second, and that we should get from zero to the first child. Here, however, a rental program could be extremely helpful, especially if after 6-8 years this property could be purchased and owned. Obviously, it could be built into the brakes in the CSOK that if you buy such a property, you can't sell it on the market, say, within two years or within an ICS year. In this way, I think that not only taxpayers would be saved for Hungary, but a lot of children would be born here, in our country, who is now, where appropriate, in Western Europe. Once again, I do not agree, I do not believe in the freezing of rents, because I see that it would strengthen the black economy, but in the expansion of the supply side very much. Every year, 5-10 thousand new-built apartments could work wonders with the Hungarian national economy in one cycle. Otherwise, this would be seen first as a dramatic improvement in emigration statistics and then after one or two cycles on population indicators. It is true that the proportion of 18-34-year-olds living in parental homes in the EU is slightly more than 48 percent, so it is roughly half of the age group concerned. In Hungary, the 2018 figure is 62.7 percent. So there is a very big difference, and it shows that in the poorer proportion of income, the acquisition of an independent home is essentially the impossible category. Once again, I have brought up a three-and-a-half year, within which the newly built real estate prices in Budapest have increased by 70 percent, essentially making it unproductive, from 500 thousand to 840 thousand in this affected term. Then there was a slight decline of 840 thousand, of course, in a few percent, especially in the period caused by the emergency, but still the start-up of 2015 was around 500 thousand, and the expansion of the supply side could bring the market back to affording rents. Obviously, a strong Airbnb regulation could prevent further contraction of the supply side, but the government has no position on this because it is a divisive issue, and you obviously measured it with your polls, said these questions at one of the two measurements a day, and it came out that it would be unpleasant for the indicators to be touched on this subject. But part of the government's responsibility is also to intervene in areas that may be currently unpleasant, but are in the long-term interest of the national economy. Once again, we could get back to the evictions so that they could face the amazing lobbying force of their executives here, they could go against the banking system instead of making a pact with it. I am quite simply confused by the cowardice and fear that you are taking against these people. 4,000 evictions a year really tell us a lot about this picture. However, the data I have quoted that most of the V4 are spent here in proportion to family support, but we share this very poorly, confirms the image that an appropriate unemployment benefit system could indeed help the situation, which is not the narrowest in Malta, but offers real prospects. In conclusion, I see that a five-point package could be used to intervene in this area. Obviously, the first one is the already mentioned rental building program, which is running on the terms of the program, but is obviously capable of being reclaimed in other parties. I would like to stress that I did not come up with this as a social programme. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]] Although it also has social legs, we have developed basically as a program capable of keeping Hungarian workers and children in the productive sphere in Hungary. Secondly, the unemployment benefit system should be made humane, and this three-month madness should be forgotten, as the crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic has proved that our difficult countrymen cannot find new jobs in three months. Obviously, this would be an immediate eviction moratorium, in my view, until the end of the epidemiological emergency, and until then, this should be supported by a partial enforcement moratorium that prevents an artificial increase in debts. In the fourth point, we should consider fine-tuning their otherwise good demographic programmes, and I am thinking about why grandparents should not be entitled to a pension, why, instead of mothers with four children, it is not possible to grant a personal income tax exemption from three children, as one of the government's leaders had already stated, but only calculated how much it would cost and returned to a narrower proposal. As a fifth point, it has already been said and rightly so that the tax system must be touched. It is untenable that the VAT on child-rearing articles is the highest in all Europe, where child-bearing and education is taxed the most brutally on this front. It would cost the budget pennies if they could ease this, but the value of the gesture would be incredibly strong. If you want to achieve a real demographic turnaround, you have to go through these five points, there's no exemption, and if you mess up this certificate, you won't be able to explain it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[11.30]]
u2020-11-05-30	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. The next speaker is Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2020-11-05-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think my fellow Member Nacsa missed him wrong, but he missed us talking little about the facts. Then I'll say it again, and let's see what the facts are today. In fact, the euro exchange rate was 364 HUF yesterday. In fact, in 2010, when you took over the government, the euro exchange rate was 265 HUF. And the fact is that you made a pact with the EBRD that didn't protect the people, the debtors, but the banking system. In fact, this cooperation agreement, which I refer to, states that the government does not make a decision that reduces or threatens the profitability of the banking system. That's a fact. And it is also a fact that, by the way, about 4,000 implementations are carried out every year in the territory of our country with families on the streets. In fact, you have done nothing, and you have not done one tiny attempt to eliminate the violations experienced in the implementations, it is a fact, fellow Members. And I think that with all due respect, I propose to all my fellow Members on the other side. [[Hey, David, to Adam, who is leaving the room:]] the one who's going out of the room. to contact my fellow Member, Mr Z. Kárpa [[Raising his voice:]] who was present in more executions than anyone in this House! [[Lőrinc Nacsa and István Hollik intervene.]] And I think that if they contacted him, then it becomes clear that the Hungarian government did nothing but do nothing to help those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, which could have been a substantial help to them! And I think that, if it is facts, it is worth talking about the fact that the rental program that is extremely lacking in your housing policy would be worth a debate, but you are even fleeing the debate. For example, I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpát... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'm just saying for the record that my fellow Member Nacsa and my fellow Member Hollik are pointing out that they did everything they could. I would like to see an initiative where your small name is signed, where you have initiated it, so that there is at least a debate about the need to implement a well-functioning rental system at all, according to you. But let's keep going, because I think there's a debate here. I agree with Dániel Z. Kárpát that I think that the rent ceiling is not a solution, because it is really easy to play, and I also agree with him that the supply side needs to be significantly increased. I think that there is a debate between us, however, that it is the municipal housing system that I think is sustainable in the long term, but it will only be sustainable in my view in the long term if we do not sell these apartments, so that if the next step after the birth of the first child is, let us say, just on my stomach, so that families can move into their own property, but it is necessary in any way to start. So the point is that we can have a debate on this, but you don't argue with anyone; you don't negotiate with anyone, just like you don't agree with any laws, regardless of the fact that you are sometimes bound by law. We have heard a very nice list of statistics from my fellow Member Nacsa, who constantly referred to the average. My fellow Member, Mr Hollik, will understand: we have an average length of hair in the family. [[He's pointing his hand at his shoulder.]] [[He's pointing his hand at his shoulder.]] Look at me, my fellow Member, you will understand what the average means. So, in vain, we have an average of our hair to the shoulder in the family (Hand pointing to the shoulder.) If I'm as bald as a pumpkin! [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] And that's the thing about average calculations, your average calculation. And I think that these kind of slips are the ones that they try to make a clown out of the voters, the compatriots that live here, and I think this is outrageous! And even though this law does contain a number of proposals that are really not only eligible for support, it is also mandatory to support, but also to leave out all the items that would allow social justice to appear in the law, which would provide guarantees regarding its sustainability, social and economic sustainability. Clearly, we all see that the Fidesz-KDNP association has an innumerable number of construction companies involved in this market segment. How good it would be if they were interested in the fact that, in the economic crisis caused by the epidemic in Hungary or by the epidemic, they probably should not be reducing the VAT on the new housing now, and I just say to Mr. Secretary, that they can still return the VAT in the way it is described in this law, so that we should not reduce the VAT on new-built apartments in the first place, but the basic food. Because until I can, or for the sake of my fellow Member, Hollik and Nacsa: an average fellow countryman cannot obtain high-quality basic food and cook his daily bread, it is not certain that the VAT on new-built apartments should be increased in the first round. Okay, we're very happy with all the VAT cuts that reduce the burden, but I just think that there's a social picture missing. I remember when you started cutting down on food VAT, and now I'm not talking about basic food, I'm talking about all the food, you've come out in the first place by reducing half-pig's VAT. Of course, it can be said that this is in the interest of society, but I would like to ask you with great respect how many times a year a pig is bought. And then, of course, this thing went on. We got all the way to UHT milk, and there was practically nothing else to do with these decisions than to point out that there are basic foods here that are taxed at 5%, typically meats, but if you had a social image, you would have a picture of what people here need, then it would be very quick to find out that basic foods are the least stopping there, that chicken meat, pork or UHT milk. Then it would be clear that there is a shopping basket that could be used to put together a food circle to which we say they are called basic foods. In my opinion, this is where all the vegetables and fruits should belong, except, say, southern fruits; this should include bread and milk. Today, the incredible situation in Hungary is that 18 percent VAT is often higher than the margin that the baker or even the trading chain makes on a kilo of bread. So after every kilo of bread, the Hungarian government pockets more money than the person who makes it, or even the person who trades it and delivers it to the consumer. And I think that if we look at this thing from here, this bill is at least lame, and that wouldn't be a problem if we didn't know your policy perfectly in practice, where it's used to looking at the amendments, I'm about to try to present it. That's opposition, trash; opposition, trash; own party, we're looking at this; governing party, that's right. [[11.40]] They didn't read any of the letters. I think that's the biggest problem, because if we could have a proper debate about the law about the CSOK, about the tax on new-built apartments, then I think we could even move forward. But since the practice shows that since 2010, but it's good, I've only been a Member since 18, so since 2018, I'm sure that you won't accept a proposal to amend the opposition, which is typically unread, I think is the problem. We have no room but to present, within the framework of the plenary session, our criticisms which I believe do not please our fellow Members. I think that the sustainability that almost all my fellow Members are involved in some aspect of economic, social or environmental sustainability does not appear in this law; it could even be seen. So we shouldn't use preferential VAT where we take farmland, forest, lawn, natural land away from ourselves. There should not be any preferential VAT, where construction is carried out on a direct lake, on a river bank. We know very well that future buyers of these properties have the resources they don't need any help with. I'll tell you one more thing: the decision you made to cancel the spring decision on the Rusty Zone action areas is something quite terrifying. But I think that these motivational tools could have helped, but they probably did, and that's what I was talking about at the beginning of my speech with your party, building contractors who have a good relationship with your party, that we guys, we're not worth it, we should be with all the others. And the government has raised its hand because of what we have already talked about, and what I am referring to now, and what my fellow Member has said is that they are pursuing wild liberal neoliberal economic policy, that is what is happening. You refuse to reduce the VAT on basic foods, because that is what society needs in this situation. They refuse to reduce VAT on basic foods because it is an opposition initiative. But they're willing to introduce 5% VAT on newly built apartments, because that's what economic interest groups associated with you are asking. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think this may be the saddest thing in this House. I think it would be worth eliminating this practice at the same time, because it is insane that you do not consider the interests of our fellow countrymen here to be the first. Of course, the communication panel has everything: family comes first; but until 27 percent of basic food is bought... and family first. It's just a big question, isn't it, whose family is it? Because if we want to help the top 10 percent of the economy, or let's say the richest 100,000 Hungarian families, this country will not be helped. I would add that, through internal consumption, the best way to help the economy would be to support the lower six decades, i.e. 60 per cent from the bottom, because there we are playing for survival, for example, health workers, who are not just doctors. These extra incomes would practically be included in internal consumption immediately, while, say, if we increase my income, I might put that aside and save it. So I think it would be worth arguing about and exchanging ideas without the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány speaking eighty-two times. To add, your performance is perfectly described as showing back 10 to 12 years ago even today. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-32	Good afternoon. We will continue our work with two-minute speakers. First, Congressman Dávid Hey, Fidesz, in two minutes, please.
u2020-11-05-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond very briefly to the speech by the notary, who has said several times: if I have written it right, he once said that three million people live in comfortless homes or in bad conditions, and at other times he said that hundreds of thousands live in slums. We're both sociologists, as far as I know, or we're sociologists. I would just like to say, for the record, that the last microcensus study in 2016 said that 2.5 percent of the inhabited apartments are comfortless housing. This is also a high number, I agree with you, it would be best if it weren't, but let's just say that the proportion of comfortless apartments within the residential dwellings was still 5 per cent in the 2011 population count, which decreased to 2.5 per cent. That's all I wanted to say as a supplement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-05-34	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, DK!
u2020-11-05-35	Thank you very much. In the first round of thought, I would like to say that the statements which my fellow Members have begun to mention are not worth arguing with, I say this to ourselves, because otherwise it is full of lies that they are telling. I'll give you an example, and I'll put it this way that you understand. If you claim Újpest has a tent program against the two thousand battery rental program, it's not true, it's a lie, and it's insulting the Újpestians. So don't say that, please, Congressman. Or when you claim that your frivolousness has brought people anything, while, by the way, central companies must be given state support to provide it, that is the lie I think it is not worth arguing with. Secondly, however, it is worth talking about the fact that my fellow Member has said that there is room in the budget and that this family support programme can be launched. If there's room in the budget, then I think there's a serious difference in perspective. You in the economy, in companies, instead of advertising a wage program during a crisis, instead you press out the Hungarian National Bank with a development loan for a thousand billion forints of credit that is offered to companies. As a result, Lőrinc Mészáros will have a hotel on the shore of every lake. Yay, we're happy about it, but that doesn't mean people get paid, doesn't mean families don't have incomes. The same is true here, that they can offer loans, but if they don't help people with family allowances, if they don't start a rental program for which they don't have to have a separate part, they won't help families. There's a problem with the foundation. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-36	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-11-05-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Several people here are suggesting that we should also discuss the home-building program. The thing is, if you deny basic numbers and statistics, it's hard to argue about this the way you ask. Dániel Z. Karpát claimed that the high amounts of family support, which can be found as a sum in the budget, concern only narrow layers. Honourable Member, that is not true either. 95 percent of families entitled to family allowances use family tax benefits, 95 percent because we extended the use of family tax benefits to the benefit. The village CSOK does not help the richest 10 percent either, and there are numerous elements of the family support system that can help Hungarian families with children very, very wide. I would like to say to Mr Csárdi that the difference between the standard of living of the household in the last ten years between the children and the childless has been significantly reduced. [[11.50]] There were large scissors when your principle friends made the system that was before 2010, then there were huge scissors between the standard of living of children's educators and childless households, and this was very much reduced. So it is not true that the lowest groups would not otherwise benefit from family support or economic policy measures. What I understand from the two DK Members is that they do not wish to argue with the statements, how you have destroyed the country, what tax increases, and László Varju says what kind of wage support should be spent on. Your crisis management was that they took a month's wages, and what was left was more taxed. Do you talk about wage increases or wage subsidies when your solution has always been a reduction? And, Congressman, don't tell me that half of these tax increases are not true, because from exactly your bill, which Congressman Varju has voted here without any problems, I have taken these measures out of your tax laws when these taxes have been constantly increased. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-38	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, independent, two minutes.
u2020-11-05-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The submission of this proposal is not a home-building programme, because I am already apologizing, and that is not an 8-page proposal with a justification. The home creation programme is a coherent programme, which may have sub-structures, but should in any case serve the purpose of helping all living people in all areas of the country who are in financial situation. This proposal contains two elements: one is that until 31 December 2022, the new housing tax is 5% and the other is that the person who received the CSOK does not pay a levy on the property purchased. These are the two points of this legislation or proposal. This isn't a home-building program. In Fideszék, this was done by looking at the fact that there are still # social groups that can be involved in voting for 22 or 22 are beautifully measured for each of their actions as to how many people can be involved who can be admitted as potential voters. And which sentence really brings you down: why is the 5% VAT only until December 31, 22nd? So you will also send a message to the citizens if you do not want to vote for this, my friend, because it is only until 31 December 2022, and the new government is most likely, because we will not be in a good budgetary position now because of the economic crisis caused by the epidemic, so you will certainly not be able to keep this up from 1 January 2023, because every penny will have to be in the budget like a piece of bread. Therefore, this proposal is nothing more than a proposal that improves well-being and attracts potential voters. All I ask of you is that you do not call me a program, because there should be a lot more in it. I will detail this in the next speech. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-05-40	Thank you. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2020-11-05-41	Mr President, Dear House, There is no point in arguing with my colleague, Nacsa, because you have not said a word about the dramatic decline in the number of newly built apartments, and you do not wish to justify this; you have not said a word about the number of demographic deep flights, and you do not wish to justify this. His hearing is selective. You're talking about what you feel you can protect. The problem with the family support system is that many people can use 6-10 thousand forints as a family tax benefit. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How does it work?]] However, 27 percent of the VAT paid for basic foods in child-rearing articles will take that quotation-marked discount several times, while the minimum wage is already taxed, just as it wasn't before. At the same time, let's say a 140 million HUF newly built apartment and the family behind it are supported by up to HUF 30 million in the same segment where the need for it doesn't appear at all. This is called chemically pure neoliberalism when they expect the favor of the selected classes to come down to all the other social groups. This model hasn't been successful anywhere in the world, but that's what you're trying to do. The reason I do not understand you, however, is that you would at least remain silent if you consciously tried to erod and inflate this form of support, since you did not touch it for decades. I am not alone with him, but I am obviously also on the opposition side in that I would definitely increase the amount of the family allowance, and everyone agrees on this, but not unconditionally. I would do this through a family card concept, where you could spend the increased amount on basic foods, child-rearing items, so a limited product range, in no case on pleasure products. Therefore, I do not think that it is necessary to give this simply in cash, but that, in any case, with the child protection approach and the guarantee of the way children benefit from it, it should be increased, dramatically and through a family card, for all the families in need. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-05-42	Thank you very much. We will now return to the normal speeches of your Members. Congressman István Hollik, KDNP.
u2020-11-05-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Present!]] I would like to respond to his speech, because it contained at least trace amounts of professionalism, but with the others. Allow me to say that Mr Csárdi, who has gone out since then, let me not judge his opinion on statistical data, because I think that was embarrassing enough for him too. What I can see is that most left-wing criticism, which is normal, can be narrowed down to some of the main statements. One is what not only Dániel Z. Kárpát, but also Antal Csárdi said that the problem with Fidesz-KDNP's support for home creation and family policy is that the benefits and support of it cannot be used by large masses. In addition to the fact that this has already been said that the tax relief is due to everyone who raises and works a child, which is a hundred thousand forints a month for a family with three children, and that, of course, every family can use it, so if we kick off from here, then I think that this statement is no longer true, but if we look at the subsidies that we have built for the creation of a home or the measures that we have introduced, let's look at it through concrete examples that they are able to take it in sum to anyone, even without starting capital. Let's see what kind of support families can use, assume that both parents have secure jobs and have children, or only one of them works, has a secure job, but do not have any savings, yet they want to move to a larger home. Let's start with baby shower support: 10 million forints. For those who know Hungary of the countryside, you should know that only the HUF 10 million alone is such a significant help that many people, if they sell the property they live in, can move a significantly larger amount with this HUF 10 million. But if they start building a new apartment or a new house, they can use the family home-building discount: HUF 10 million. That's 20 million forints. And then there's the discount rate of CHEK loan, which is another 15 million forints. So that's 35 million forints. And once again, anyone who knows Hungary in the countryside knows that a family house can be brought out of such a sum, without any initial capital or savings. So if someone claims that these subsidies cannot be used, then they simply are not telling the truth. And this is a specific example: a person can claim 35 million forints in this way, and it is possible to do so, and this allows many people to start building a new house. And I haven't told you that I don't have any left-wing congressman telling me that someone can't use, for example, the house renovation discount that's in the bill before us. This is a very lifelike suggestion that someone who wants to expand or renovate his house, for example, for such money, can build a new room to his apartment, and can do the roof space that has not been built so far, and they need a minimal share of it. Or the baby shower support will provide him with his own share, and he'll miss this support, so he can do it. So the fact is that this statement, that you cannot make use of it, be kind enough to support it with concrete examples, because it is a statement that hangs in the air, but I think if you ask a affected family, you will say the opposite of what you are saying. [[12.00]] The other issue here is the rental building program. We have had this debate several times with Mr Z. Kárpát, but this is a debateable proposal, and the fact is that Hungarian society and Hungarian families have already said this several times, but let us not go by it. And by the way, they already own most of it. Let's not ignore that. So people don't want to build houses off the street all of a sudden. If they already own it, they have assets, and they want to improve it or sell it to build a new house. So it's a rental building. The reason we don't think about it is because this is triggered by the CSOK, village CSOK, baby shower support that we now provide for families. Why should the state enter this market if, by the way, the family is able to do so on its own initiative, thanks to these subsidies? And then there is no compromise, there is no state bureaucracy, because it will be able to build a house that, by the way, thanks to the subsidies, is allowed by its wallet, exactly one, without compromises. He doesn't have to move into an apartment he didn't plan otherwise, he's not exactly suitable for his own family. So I think that it is unnecessary to think about building a flat if, by the way, thanks to these subsidies, Hungarian families can start building their own house or buying a new apartment. The other argument that Dániel Z. Carpathian was kind enough to mention was the rise in property prices, and he talked about this only in a negative context. However, I would like to draw your attention to one thing, Mr President: the price of real estate is a very important measure of the state of the economy. Real estate prices show the state of the economy. Which means that even if the property prices rise, even if there may be specific, distorting effects, but it does show that the economy is working well and that, by the way, people's wealth is growing, their livelihoods become more secure; this is clearly the cause of the increase in property prices. So when you talk about an increase in property prices, the reasons for the rise in property prices are always omitted, but it is worth talking about. Well, what's the reason for the property price increase? The fact that there is economic growth, that people now have a job, and thank God, in the last 3-4 years, there has been an unprecedented wage increase in Hungary in the last 30 years. The other is that, since Hungarian society is fundamentally property-oriented, the focus of its thinking is that it wants its own property, and therefore the rise in property prices, which is undoubtedly negative, but has at least as many positive effects, Member, because when we talk about property price increases, it also means that the property of Hungarian families with ownership is increasing. So we're not gonna miss this. Not to mention the fact that you're bringing up the property price rise, I think in a slightly populist way, but otherwise, because you don't have it, and you don't have to, so you don't say it. So you bring it up as a problem, but it doesn't solve it. And only because you finally made this deal with the Development Bank, which you refer to as the EBRD pact. [[Nacsa Lőrinc Z. Carpathian to Daniel: Watch out!]] Let's get this straight once and for all. So the Hungarian Fidesz-KDNP government has a responsible relationship with the financial sector, a normal relationship. Which means that we involve them in the joint burden when it is necessary: the banks paid HUF 1000 billion in the form of a bank tax. And, Dániel Z. Carpathian, this is, I know, unpleasant for you, but precisely the left-wing Members you have now joined together with were the biggest critics of this, and they protested against it the most. And then he wasn't so loud and determined. So at a time when the government thought that they had to involve these banks and take on extra burdens, because they have gained a lot of extra profit over the last decades, that's what the government is doing. But in order to increase and stimulate economic growth, I really believe that there was a completely rational agreement with the banks, which was about reducing the bank tax, reducing the introduced bank tax that I once again say was introduced by Fidesz-KDNP, and your left-wing allies didn't vote and attacked, but only if the resources thus released are spent by the banking sector to stimulate economic growth. I think this is a responsible agreement. So at least you should stop being so populist and refer to all these pacts. So let us see reality and conclude this debate in this regard once and for all. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-05-44	Thank you very much. We now hear Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent congresswoman. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If there is such a wide debate here about what the Fidesz government has done, what it has not done, what it has done, what it has not done, it is essential to say, however much government there is, if it brings provisions that are even beneficial to a family, it must be supported. Regardless of whether or not he may have a voter's purpose. So I will certainly vote in favour of this proposal. But I also listened to the earlier stage of the debate when I was not in the Chamber, and our fellow Member Hollik spoke about the fact that a child could indeed benefit from the various preferences, and he did not even need a child, and he also said this in detail. But it is always very important for all responsible decision-makers and politicians, especially if an institution has been in operation for a long time, whether it has fulfilled the hope it has given. Of course, if we assume that all this series of measures, which the Fidesz government has taken from 2014 to create so-called family homes, is based on the possibility that the willingness to have children may fall to a catastrophic extent, and the basis for the measures is rather the purpose of creating existing live births, or the increase in the number of living births, I do not know that, because I have watched the debates at that time, and it has always been said that it is necessary to ensure that as many children as possible are born in Hungary. If I assume that the 2014 91 000 live births are one basis point, and we say that we expected society to bring this birth number even if the government does not introduce any kind of benefits, then I have to say that even if 136 thousand families have used the CSOK until August this year and 63 thousand families have used the baby shower loan, only 2.7 percent of children have been born since 2015. That's extremely few numbers. Of course, he would have been sure to stand up from your ranks and say that if we hadn't taken these measures, there might have been an 80,000 or 75,000 reduction in the willingness to be born, because, on the one hand, the number of women of parental age is falling significantly, and on the other hand, the modernization of life does not generate 4-5-6 children in today's young families. So we can't determine whether that willingness was there or not. But if we have to continue this way of thinking, then there is quite a problem, because then this means that in Hungarian society there is no nation-sustaining force just like that, from soul and from itself. And if that's the case, it's an extremely serious problem. So it is not by itself that we have to come to the House with various small measures, such eight-line legislative proposals, but rather a much more serious, national retention programme, not to the Fidesz-KDNP, but to all political forces together. We do not know the outcome of a recent economic crisis, and we do not know how long the Hungarian state's budget will be able to achieve such benefits or opportunities. [[12.10]] Now that we all know that the government debt is 32,000 billion, the budget deficit is constantly increasing, 7-8 percent and even 13 percent have already been said, everything that is in the context of the word "state" and "debt" is in the sky, how do we know how long the country's budget can give families to have more children? 'Cause what I really hope is that one politician doesn't think about paying to have kids. The child is the most important element of the joy of life. We will have a child because we want to live a full life, we want to leave the next generation here in our country, raise them to happy people, make people; not only so that our lives can be happy, but also so that our nation can survive. So I ask that, when my fellow opposition Members criticize certain kinds of omissions of the government or shortcomings in the measures introduced, they do not resent this, because they are doing this precisely with the aim of achieving the goal, the survival of the nation, and in 20-30 years' time, when they look at the content of the debates here, they will see who has said that this is not good, and who have said that this is perfect, the way it is, we do not need to take any other measures, we have tried to achieve the willingness of Hungarian citizens to raise families and have children with just these tools. But money can't buy everything, and you know it. People either feel that in this country there is such a safe future, there is such a predictable public life, there is a moral basis for which he deserves to have 3-4-5 children... Is there quality education? Is there a quality health system? It's all connected. Believe me, in this country, there shouldn't have been one support system in order to have children. You just need a predictable public life, one where they don't read each other arrogantly, but tell each other that you, well, you might want to think about what you're saying. Don't always have to be the basis for what one didn't do, what the other does! It should not be the foundation to read on each other's heads his omissions or his incomplete, faulty activities, but let us say that I apologize, but we are sent here, regardless of the party from which one came to do good for the citizens of the country. This proposal is good but very insufficient. And I would like to talk about one more aspect, and this is over-construction. Hungarian society does not have a city-centred soul. The Hungarian people are a natural people. The Hungarian people have come from the villages in bulk and small settlements are being emptied, not because the Hungarian people's spirit would have lost its nature, but because it can achieve the quality of its prosperity in the city that it does not get there in the small settlement. I am strongly opposed to this tremendous amount of urban housing. So I do not agree with the politicians who claim on the government that in Budapest, Debrecen, Szeged, Miskolc there is only so much and why not so many apartments have been built. It is because most of these stem from the eradication of green areas. If I were to decide on this issue, my first point would be that I would be able to bring as many people back to the villages as possible, where, of course, they can achieve a sufficient amount and quality of service. So, in the small town, you don't pay the hairdresser, the nail guy, or the convenience store tax in a thousand people. Why don't you pay taxes? Because he needs the discount to provide the service there. Based on the fate of small villages, this society can only be restored to a quality society. Please, I beg you all, don't try to overcrow our cities any longer. The country is full of real estate that has deteriorated, but with renovation it could still have a wonderful function, whether we are talking about apartments or public institutions. If it were up to me, I'd have a construction ban, but it could only be renovated and installed on toothbrushes. Our country has been over-built, and it is not a question of housing construction, nor is it a question of housing support. It's an environmental issue. I think that today there is a large population of homes in Hungary that can serve Hungarian society. Please make a complete home-building and professional home-building program for all the non-selling small-town properties. What do I mean? No doctor? Let him have a perfect place to serve, which is necessary for today's living conditions, with a decent income, and he will soon be there. Isn't there a teacher? There's no teacher? It's okay. There's a lot of abandoned property over there. Please get it. It creates enormous capacity for the construction industry, because it can renovate it, and the teacher, the teacher, is about to have a service apartment. No priest? Well, then, a part of the terrible amount of money that the churches receive should be labeled for renovating homes that can create quality life for future priests and pastors. Or we can talk about any country deficit trade that needs to be brought there with the first person you see, where you're going to live, what quality of life you're going to have. Because believe me, a doctor has a much better life in a small-town environment by doing health care for the people there and helping them to maintain their health or to heal than going into a metropolitan or metropolitan clinic with a terrible stress and task, and there he has to live half as long as he would if he weren't here. So what everyone must see is that people's decisions are extremely dependent on the circumstances in which they can have a quality of life. Finally, I would like to mention another goal of home creation, which, I think, is probably being adopted by the governing parties, and this is promoting the coexistence of generations. We see now, during the coronal virus epidemic, what a huge problem it was for families when schools were shut down to be supervised by children. It is also true that we protected the elderly from receiving the virus, but it is possible to eliminate it with a good home defense. Today, if the government's aim is to strengthen society, it must be given discounts, whether subsidies or VAT reclaims, to move generations together. The help of moving generations together serves the strengthening of Hungarian society at such a level that it is amazing and will immediately generate birth growth, because there is already help, there is already a medium where the second, third and fourth children can come, because we are together, and together families can build their lives on a stronger basis. So I would ask you all very much, in addition to the criticisms, to make your own constructive and truly enforceable, feasible proposals. Let us note that the competition between the two political sides is not in the interest of the people. That's there for the election, so let everyone compete as best they can, you can scold each other properly, because it's in there, but until it does, we're not campaigning, we're trying to help this people have a good, good life, because we're all responsible for it. Society will kick us all if it feels like we didn't serve them. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-46	Thank you very much. He asked for a two-minute speech, Congressman Dávid Hey, Fidesz. Here.
u2020-11-05-47	Thank you very much. I would only react very briefly to the congresswoman. She said that the countryside should be dealt with, and not the further integration of the cities. [[12.20]] I think that here we should remember the programme of the Hungarian village, in which you have the opportunity to apply for applications for settlements of less than 5 thousand people, where empty community properties can be renovated, for example. And let us remember the village CSOK, which has led to an increasing number of families building housing in small villages, and apparently, recent data from the KSH also clearly show that the number of housing and new housing ownership in the municipalities has increased significantly over the past period. I think this is a very important thing, and I think that we agree with the Congresswoman that it is not a problem at all if the number of apartments in Budapest is no longer increasing. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-48	A kind of rejoinder from Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea in two minutes, and then I suggest we close it.
u2020-11-05-49	Let me add so much respect to my fellow Member Dávid Héjj, because it is okay here that reality is always reflected in our lectures, that, in the case of village CSOK, the customers ran to the area of Lake Balaton, the smaller settlements. Around us, just where I am on Lake Balaton, all the vacation homes have been built. So I have to say that there was a sideline to this which did not really generate the satisfaction of society. I think that these risks should have been taken into account prior to the adoption of that legislation, because the objective of taxpayers is not for certain people to have a vacation home on Lake Balaton with the support of the state. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-50	Now, here's the thing: the debate on the bill is actually over. The dialogue between the congresswoman and the congressman may continue within the Chamber by saying again, and then I suggest... [[Hey, David, on Adam's signal:]] It's very excellent that I don't have to finish my sentence, so let the Members understand each other. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? I only put this on because it's my duty to do it here in the script, not for anything else. [[No one's reporting.]] Okay, I'll make sure you don't. The general debate is closed. Secretary of State Zsigo indicates that he wishes to reflect. You have the floor, please.
u2020-11-05-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, without exception, whether you are present or not, I would like to thank everyone for their participation in the debate, and I would particularly like to thank those who have made constructive, well-intentioned proposals and opinions either on the pro-government or on the opposition side, and I would like to say a few on this matter. The reason I am doing this for the first time is because I think that, in agreement with many people, we think that the issue of Hungarian families cannot be a party political issue, the measures that some people in this bill, among other things, have said that they will support this, must be judged not on a party political basis, but on a national basis, not by accident. Congressman Antal Csárdi misquoted Minister when he spoke. The Minister said: "There is no Hungarian future without children. This is also in the direction of this proposal, which we are discussing now, and I will address the details of it. I regret that most of my fellow opposition Members, with the exception of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, have left, especially those who said in their speech that they wanted a debate. Now that I can answer your questions, they're not here. However, I have good news for Congressman Varju: for the first time in our career, we may understand one thing, and not only do I agree with him, but I will take his advice, and with this I will have a very short rejoinder; and this will be in Mr President's wish if I have a good sense of what he has said. Mr László Varju said in one of his speeches, I would like to quote literally that there is no need to respond to statements that do not correspond to reality, so there is a great deal that has been said in the last nearly three and a half hours, I will not react, nor do I wish to react, because they were not in a thank-you situation. Furthermore, I do not want to respond to campaign and cortes speeches, nor do I want to respond to the conspiracy theories that are coming up in Parliament every week, nor do they agree and argue with each other, nor do I want to respond to the amount of Mr Csárdi's hair. I say this only to those who were not in the room when this came up, which is why I feel that we have had a colourful and wide-ranging debate on the matter of home creation, by the way. However, there have been some important issues that I would like to respond to, and although I did not want to deal with matters before 2010, I will also have to do so because of a comment. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát talked about two things several times: one is the birth number and the other is the number of homes built. He also paid me the answer, by the way, and I would just add, even at the beginning of the debate, he quoted the Minister inexactly. Congressman, in Hungary, fertility, so what you said, the total fertility rate between 2010 and 2018 has increased from 1.25 per cent to 1.55 per cent. This is what Madam Minister pointed out in her exposé, because it is the highest growth among the European Member States; it is a 24 percent increase in this decade, by the way. Of course, I have to say at the very beginning that we have a lot of work to do, we have a lot to do to help Hungarian families, but I do not think it is what some opposition representatives have said that everything is over here and nothing is happening. In addition, I can give the representative two data for the built apartments: between July 2015 and September 2020 44 thousand apartments with CSOK were built in Hungary, and according to a new statistics 8697 apartments were built in Hungary in the first half of 2020. That's 34 percent more than last year. It is important to point out, however, that in the first six months of the first six months, there has been a dynamic increase in use throughout the country: in Budapest, the number of properties used has increased by 22 percent, in cities with county rights 40 percent, in smaller towns by 47 percent and in villages by 23 percent. I would also like to answer some of Mrs Gurmai Zita's points, even though she is not present. One of his claims is that very few people can make use of the home creation program. Many people have already denied this, and I would add that today not only a home-building programme for families, but also a family support programme is being implemented in Hungary. Here, for example, a figure was made on the fact that 95 percent of family benefit recipients can benefit from family tax relief. I can also tell you that, since its introduction in July 2015, until September 2020, so in the last five years 154 thousand families have used the family home-building discount, worth HUF 488 billion: 44 thousand families have received HUF 276 billion for the purchase of new homes, 101,000 families have received HUF 189 billion for the purchase of apartments, and we have been able to help 10 thousand families expand or upgrade their existing homes for HUF 24 billion. For these reasons, the home creation programme is one of the most successful government initiatives, since, in this context, this has already been said in the debate today, between 2015 and 2020, we have been able to provide Hungarian families with a small amount of reimbursable support. Congresswoman Gurmai also said that she resented, quite precisely, that I am looking for my paper, that this may not be a sham of why the elements that have been left out of the home creation programme, the proposal that has been tabled in recent weeks, which the Ministry without a new wallet has announced in the last few weeks; they have not been left out. [[12.30]] I cannot even say to Mrs President that she was not here when she spoke to others. The Minister said that the two elements of our home creation programme, which I would like to say towards the end, are included in the legislative amendment proposal, on the other elements, on the details questions we are working on now, so that they can be included in various regulations, and that everyone can use it from 1 January 2021. So they are not left out, but there are some that need to be regulated by law from this home creation program, and some that need to be regulated by decree. There were no more people at the Minister's address. Congressman Varju was not present at the Minister's speech either. This may mean that I would like to respond to only a few things from what you have said, but there is one thing in any case. The Member said that this proposal that we have just tabled again, I quote, is literally another step towards the ravine. And this is where I arrived at the moment when I took out my previous papers, and I definitely think that I would like to talk about it, without hurting anyone, simply listing the facts. If this current proposal, which is on the Parliament's table, and the measures that we have taken since 2010, is another step towards the gap, then what should we say about the steps that have taken in Hungary between 2002 and 2010? And again, I don't want to hurt anyone, I just want to list: what was the step when, after 2002, the left-wing government terminated the home creation program? What should we say about the step when the left - left government abolished the family tax relief system? If this proposal is a step towards the gap, then what were these measures? non-proposals. And no matter how much they try to pin down foreign exchange credit, honourable left-wing Members, the fact is that when you stopped the family home creation program after 2002, you led the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, one step towards foreign exchange loans. And after, in 2008, I will soon list how the crisis was not dealt with, so by 2008-09 Hungarian families, those who were indebted, who you are not sitting here now most in debt, have been forced to take on a foreign currency loan to build their home. And we were the ones who took over the country after 2010, when we were in such a bad economic situation, that many of us, together with Greece, were talking about us when we were barely able to pay a pension, and the lack of a budget was skyrocketed, and we had to force these families together with society to rescue them from the trap of foreign exchange debt. Every time they say in this Parliament that we're to blame for this, believe me, people remember that you did this to them. And before 2010... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman Z. Carpathian! The reason why I didn't start my rejoinder today was the way I started it, because in his second speech he acted like a relatively gentleman, but the only thing I can add is that the only thing that doesn't help the Hungarian families is if you constantly intervene in a parliamentary debate to the person who is talking. (Daniel Z. Carpathian intervention) I'm sure that won't help them. Before 2010, when there was also a crisis in Hungary, let us see how the then Gyurcsány-Bajnai government handled this crisis! They took a month's pension, Congressman, from pensioners, from the elderly. They've raised the retirement age. The duration of the child has been shortened. It has already been said today, but not enough has been said: fifteen times the price of energy has been increased; three times the price of gas and twice the price of electricity. The fact is, honourable Member, honourable left-wing Members, that by 2010, you have been indebted to the country, indebted to the municipalities and indebted to the Hungarian families. From this situation, starting from here, we had to get the economy back on its feet, strengthen and support the Hungarian families. But people know you, they know that when you're in opposition, they promise you heat when you're on the government, and they take everything away from them. That's the thing. In 2010, when we came to government to get back to our current topic, we took a family-friendly turn in Hungary. This one has a home-building leg and a family-support leg. We've brought back the family tax relief. We introduced the ged extra to list only a few; this was listed in the debate. We're giving baby shower support. Mothers with four children are fully free of sia. The mother's student loan has now been released during the crisis. We have introduced support for car shopping for large families, and there is still a long list of points in the family support system that we would like to help, and Mr Z. Karpat has already gone out, because he would like to argue so much to serve the purpose that we are talking about. When we are talking about helping families and Mr Z. Kárpát has brought up the "Women 40" programme, we are not just talking about young people who are taking up and raising children. We are also talking about helping children, young people, learn and learn. We are talking about helping them to have children and raise children with different discounts and opportunities. We must help them to have jobs, work that they can earn their families honorably, and help the elderly to live in a proper way and with honor. That's what our family support system is about. There's a family support system, and, yeah, there's a part of home-building support. We've introduced the CSOK, that's what's been said. Several times, we have expanded the range of people who can take the money, we have introduced the village CSOK, and we have taken a number of measures that have led us in this direction over the past few years. Here I will return to Andrea Varga-Damm's comment, since this is what Mr Dávid Héjj said: helping people in small towns; because this is always a question. The second year of the program is under way. This has exactly the same applications, and the settlements are receiving exactly the same grants that the congresswoman is asking for. I'll let you know you don't have to ask because it's already happening. Our goal is that in every settlement, in every small settlement in Hungary, those who live there can make use of the services provided by the state or the municipality to them at the right level. That is why medical offices are being renewed, and therefore village houses, kindergartens, playgrounds, schools are being renewed, so municipalities can apply for housing renovation or construction, if there is no doctor or teacher in the settlement, then they can go there and live under the right conditions. So it's this program that we've been doing for the second year, and if anyone's in the country I've been in my constituency a lot, and I'm obviously looking at it because I've been doing a lot of this, this program has already had visible results in small settlements. And the thing is, more and more young families think it's worth moving to a small settlement because they can live, work and raise their children properly. And to get back to the end, Mr President, at the end of my speech, thank you for your patience, although I have time, but I would like to hold back, with the bill, we are working on the implementation of the greatest home creation programme of all time. We didn't just start, but we're continuing this program. Two elements of this are that the VAT on newly built apartments is reduced to 5 percent, and those who buy such apartments, who buy used or new-built apartments, are exempt from tax, which is included in the bill before us. I'm asking everyone to support this. These are two elements of this home creation programme. Besides, there are other elements. For families with children who use CSOK, the state will regulate the payment of VAT by decree. We are also launching an apartment, a home renovation program, which means that those who are raising children, those families are renovating, modernising their homes... To Mr Tordai, it is an answer to what apartments live in Hungary, and there are indeed such apartments, but we are also launching such a program element; these apartments will be supported by the state up to HUF 3 million, up to half the amount. And we will also launch a multigenerational home creation program for those who can create a new, independent home with their parents, grandparents or relatives, either by installing and expanding the attic. [[12.40]] Overall, therefore, much has been said during the debate in the three and a half hours. On the opposing side, we heard what we used to hear, which are, by the way, half-information, bad information, or simply political attacks. I call on everyone to continue to support the government, the Ministry, in order to continue to implement this home renovation programme and a home-building programme. Once again, I will return to what I said at the beginning: the issue of families in Hungary today is not a party political issue, but a national issue, so I would ask all the good-hearted and well-meaning Members to support us in this work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-05-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for a Governmental Personality Decision Support System until closure. The government referral is T/13469. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-05-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For citizens, results-oriented public administration is one of the most important factors in building trust. It is in the national interest for the State to continue to earn the recognition of citizens by providing them with protection and security, and therefore the priority objective of the proposal is to increase the efficiency of public administration. The basic objective of the bill is to promote the implementation of Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The establishment of a government decision-support system for people with modern IT foundations, meeting the challenges of the 20th century. With its introduction, human resources management in the public service can become more efficient and professional and thus contribute to the effective functioning of the organisation. At present, public employment data cannot be compared for statistical purposes and can only be based on case-by-case statements. If further questions arise, the data should be re-assessed, which is a significant administrative burden, with other public service tasks increasing. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft has been discussed socially and professionally, and on the basis of the comments made by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the bill complies with the data protection requirements. In the future, the new system can provide full information on the organisational and staff conditions of the public bodies covered by it and on the posts and statuses of public bodies. To this end, the bill defines the constituents of the CCPR. Two elements are recorded for all legal status laws: the data collection module containing personal data and the statistical module providing statistical queries. Two additional elements may be specifically applied only in respect of certain legal statuses. One of these elements is the job registration system, which can only be understood by government administrations. The second is the basic registration and administration system for persons, which will be put in place by central government administrations and law enforcement bodies for the management of personal records. Dear Parliament, The operation of the new system can take place at several stages. On 1 April 2021, if the proposal is adopted, it is planned to start operations for the employees of organisations where the new basic registration and administration system for persons is not applicable by 1 January 2021, for organisations where the basic registration and administrative system for persons is to be introduced and on 1 July 2021 for the personnel of the National Tax and Customs Office. Dear Parliament, The bill also includes a 5% salary increase for law enforcement administrative staff of law enforcement bodies foreseen by the Government for January 2021. The Government's decision of November 2018 was to increase the salary by 20 per cent in 2019 and by 5 per cent per year for three years thereafter. Accordingly, the amendment also includes an increase in the salary limits laid down by law, as a result of the increase of the guaranteed minimum wage in the meantime, the lower salary limits are also increasing. In addition, as part of the health, psychological and physical fitness assessment system, it puts into effect the provision which refers to the establishment of certain rules in the field of a public body regulatory instrument. The regulation of care for orphans or widows of deceased members of law enforcement professional staff is currently incomplete. In the future, according to the model of the Homelanders, it will appear at a legal level that orphans may receive supplementary benefits, while widows or parents are entitled to retirement benefits, supplementary family benefits. When determining the level of care, the regulation takes into account the fact that it is a relative of a deceased who is not a hero, dead or qualified for duty. Dear Parliament, In this bill, we are also proposing amendments to the law on temporary rules for the cessation of an emergency. In the outbreak situation caused by Covid-19, there is a high risk of infection outside the borders of the country under uncontrolled conditions. The transit zone has proven to be suitable for preventing the spread of the infection by not entering Hungary from there. Based on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it was necessary to evacuate the transit zone. In order to further prevent the spread of the epidemic, a new procedure has been introduced, which has been extended until 31 December 2020 following the end of the emergency. Therefore, the letter of intent to lodge an asylum application may be submitted to the asylum authority in the diplomatic representations provided for in the Government Regulation as a submission to the asylum authority. Dear Parliament, In order to ensure the proper transposition of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, it is necessary to amend the Disaster Protection Act. Currently, the operator of the hazardous substance plant may initiate the declaration of certain parts of the safety report it has prepared to be protected by reference to business secrets. That authority shall also be entitled under this Directive. The amendment is important because the safety report contains data on, for example, the type, quantity, location and protection of dangerous substances stored in the plant. In order to ensure the safety of the plant, the defence and the avoidance of terrorist threats, the industrial safety authority may decide not to disclose such data. Dear Parliament, The rules of the Police Act concerning the protected stock subject to a reliability test also need to be changed. It is proposed to extend the possibility of verification of reliability to all government officials carrying out official activities. Accordingly, only government officials carrying out specific official duties have been able to carry out a confidence check so far, and it will be possible to do so with the adoption of the proposal for all government officials carrying out official activities. Dear Parliament, In the context of the law on the local governments of Hungary, the Constitutional Court 23/2020. its decision found that there was a failure to comply with the basic law. The Constitutional Court has proposed two solutions: to restrict the right to stand as a candidate or to amend the legislation on inadequacy. This bill contains clarification of the legislation on inadequacy. The amendment of the law does not change with regard to representatives and mayors sentenced to imprisonment or compulsory medical treatment. As long as it is subject to the judgment, it shall not be possible to elect or terminate that person's term of office. In the case of the suspended judgment, this is what the present proposal is about, the rules in force will be clarified. With the amendment, it becomes clear that the unworthyness of the municipal representative and the mayor must be declared to the body of representatives only if the final judgment is reached during the term of office. On the basis of the amendment, the occurrence of the circumstances laid down by law will result in the termination of the office and will return the right of voters to decide, knowing the reasons for the termination of the office, in the next election. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I ask you with great respect to discuss and support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-05-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker; first, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Dávid Héjj, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In front of us lies T/13469. the bill on the Government Personality Decision Support System, the KSZDR, which aims to create the 21st century. The legal basis for a modular decision support system with modern IT bases, capable of responding adequately to the challenges posed by the 20th century. [[12.50]] In order to create the necessary regulatory environment, it is essential to amend a number of public service status laws. In the light of this proposal, we therefore need to see that the regulatory environment of the CCPR will be ensured by legislation on the one hand and by government regulation on the other. Dear House, The basic objective of the creation of the KSzDR is to develop and complete a government information system that supports the efficiency and professionality of human resources management in the public service, covering the entire public service sector. The bill is 1. § 2 of the KSDR states that the Government's Personal Information System, and then paragraph 2 of the same section, lists the objectives of the KSDR, which include, inter alia, the provision of data and elements necessary for the development and implementation of government staff policy, the provision of data necessary for the analysis of staff and salary data and the establishment of decisions on them, the fulfilment of international data reporting obligations on personal matters and the provision of statistical queries. Therefore, KSZDR will be able to provide accurate and up-to-date information about the wider public service, including data on public administration, law enforcement personnel, relevant to the functioning and development of the state, provide full information on the organisational and staffing conditions of the public bodies covered by it, as well as a monitoring system that will meet the needs of top managers for research purposes as well as for current information and public science fields. It must be stressed that the introduction of the KSDR will allow the government to access statistics from the controlled basic human data of the public service bodies, as well as analyses using additional data from other State resources systems and databases, in a much faster and automated manner than at present. As a result, government decision-making can become more robust than before. According to the proposal, the CCPR will start operating at a number of paces, as the Secretary of State said. It is important to note that the operation of the KSDR will be carried out by the Minister for the Development of the Public Service Career, i.e. the Minister of the Interior, and its operation will be carried out by an organisation defined by the Government's decree. The bill is 2. In its section, we read which legal status will be covered by the law. I do not wish to list some of the public service status covered by this paragraph, but I would just like to give the example of Kit. Those employed in central government administrations and their territorial and local bodies, Kit. persons employed in the territorial government administrations of the Member States or members of the staff of the NAV. In order to achieve the objectives of the CCPR, organisational and personal data are of course necessary, as this is the basis for analysis and preparation of government decisions. On the other hand, two elements concerning the CCPR constituents are recorded for all legal status laws: the data collection module and the statistical module. It should be noted that personal data will be entered into the data collection module on the one hand from a register containing data relevant to the CCPR but on the other hand will be recorded in a way that is not able to identify the statistical data. Two additional elements will be specifically applied only in respect of certain legal statuses, one being Kit. a system of registration of posts to be introduced as a special legal institution, which can only be interpreted for government administrations and, secondly, a basic registration and administration system for persons, which will be introduced in central government administrations and in law enforcement bodies for the management of personal records. Dear Parliament, With regard to the amendments, it should be pointed out that Kit. In the future, the concept of a public service register will cease to exist, since only the legal institution of the basic public service register to be kept in the electronic system, which will be the new basic register and administrative system for government administrations, with the exception of government offices. The Kttv. The provisions of the basic register will also be amended as the Minister responsible for developing the public service career as the Minister operating the KSZDR will be entitled to access for statistical purposes. While I am on the subject of data, I would like to briefly mention that the Public Finance Act will also be amended, in such a way that the Treasury transmits headcount, earnings and salaries data linked to a unique identifier, as well as organizational data to the CCPR. The legal basis for these obligations is also established as a result of the amendment in the chapter on Treasury Data Management. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to highlight two important provisions of the proposal, which was already mentioned by the Secretary of State. I would first like to say that the bill will make the necessary amendments to transpose the Seveso III Directive, Directive 2012/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the management of the risk of major accidents involving dangerous substances, into national law. This is why it is also necessary to remedy the shortcomings of the Disaster Protection Act, as the European Commission has concluded that national transposition legislation does not expressly give the authority the right to classify certain data relating to plant safety as data to be protected. Although the concept of data to be protected is included in the Disaster Protection Act, it does not give the authority the right to declare data protected, for this reason it becomes necessary to supplement national legislation. Secondly, I would like to note that the bill on the House's table is implemented by the Constitutional Court on 23-2020. In addition, amendments to the law necessary to eliminate the failure to comply with the basic law laid down in Decision No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In this way, the law on the local governments of Hungary is amended, which makes it clear and clear that the decency of the municipal representative and the mayor must be declared to the body of representatives only if the final judgment is given during the term of office; however, it cannot be neglected to add that, at the same time as declaring the inadequacy, the right to vote as a candidate will not be reduced, i.e. the mayor or the municipal representative may be re-elected in the next election. In order to ensure the coherence of the legal system and to ensure consistency of legislation on this matter, it is also necessary to amend the law on the rights of nationalities. Dear Parliament, I don't want to add any more words. I believe that the Secretary of State has already described the substance of the proposal exhaustively in his exposé. One more time, perhaps briefly, the 21st century. In line with the needs of the 20th century, the proposal submitted serves to a sufficient extent to make the basis for government organisational and staff policy decisions more effective. The tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-56	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a salad law before us. We have often said that the salad law is not always appropriate, especially when sometimes, in some cases, hundreds or even more laws are changed with it, and in particular there is a problem when these laws are very far from each other, they do not cover the same subject, and we have also often seen from the government that it has smuggled things into these laws and salad laws that it has tried to hide in case the opposition does not notice and it is managed to carry them through. So we are careful in the beginning when the salad law comes before us. In this legislation, too, 11 amendments are made, if I have calculated correctly: LXXV 18 on Government Administration. Act on Public Service Officers, Law on Police, Act on Disaster Protection, Act on Identification of Persons and the Use of Identification Codes, Act on the Rights of Nationalities, Act on Local Governments of Hungary, Law on Public Finance, Act on the Service of Professional Personnel of Public Service Bodies of 2015 XLII. Law, the Act on Temporary Rules for the Elimination of an Emergency and the Act on Disease Control, the Act on the Service of Health. Now, the legislation is one of those in which there is the most correlation in the salad law, so I could say that it is almost logical that it is being amended by a law; two or three circles have been included in it, but the majority of the 11 amended legislation can basically be drawn up on the same subject, and thus it can be concluded that there is a link between them, so that we can almost conclude that this legislation is a refreshing exception from those which are usually placed here on the table in this House. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that Article 21 The legislative basis of a modular government decision-support system, which is based on modern IT funds, is also appropriate to the challenges of the 20th century, is therefore the sound aim of this legislation. [[13.00]] The environment of this personal decision support system would be defined or based on both legislation and a later government decree. In addition to building this, as has already been said here, it deals with two things and more, but with two main things. One is 23/2020. a decision of the Constitutional Court, in which the Constitutional Court and the Hungarian Parliament were called upon to replace the failure of the Constitutional Court. In any event, it is necessary to amend the law by the end of the year. That's part of the deal. It is also important that this should be stated at the statutory level, so that if a mayor, a municipal representative, a representative of a minority self-government commit a deliberate crime, then what legal consequences are attached to his mandate, his right to vote as a candidate remains, he can be elected, and what happens to him. By the way, I have interpreted the Constitutional Court's decision a little differently than two speakers, the Secretary of State and the lead speaker of Fidesz, said here earlier. I understood that the Constitutional Court's decision narrows down the possibility that a mayor, a local government representative, a minority municipal representative, may retain his mandate to determine his inadequacy or not. I understood that the decision of the Constitutional Court was primarily about limiting the possibility for such a mayor to keep his job. I see that the amendment that has been included narrows it down in part and expands the possibility in part, so it is a little double, because it limits only the time when it is established that a deliberate crime has been committed, and that is when the mandate can be terminated due to inadequacy. It obviously narrows it down to the fact that, regardless of discharge, this has been avoided; if the court exempts it, the body of representatives may also determine the inadequacy. So I see that this regulation does not consistently follow the guidance of the Constitutional Court here. The other area, which is introduced by this legislation, is the amendment necessary to correct the deficiency in the transposition of Directive 18 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the management of the risk of major accidents involving dangerous substances by the European Commission. That's what the law brings in. Then we also see that Mr Secretary of State has also said that a 5% increase in salaries is also a promise for employees. Well, 5 percent is actually incorporated in the annex, it can be concluded that the frame numbers are actually increasing by 5 percent and higher incomes can be established. I just don't see an adequate guarantee in this law that this 5% will be installed. I would also ask the Secretary of State to make a statement on this and to reassure me that this is not just an option, but that 5 percent will be mandatory for everyone. Indeed, the frames have increased, that is true, but the framework only determines the maximum, of course there is obviously a change in the minimum, so whoever has the lowest wage will definitely have the 5% change. However, the large majority, 90 percent, obviously does not belong to this stock, and I do not see the guarantee that they will, not just give them the opportunity. Mr Secretary of State spoke about the legislation on orphanage. In any case, it is a positive thing that this is regulated in detail in this legislation. It is very important that the state pay attention to these orphans, these children in these cases, and that adequate care be provided to them at the statutory level. A large part of the bill deals with what is set out in the bill, and this is the creation of a modular system based on modern IT funds. In this regard, I would say that as an opposition representative and opposition group, one would almost say that we should entrust the government with the systems it is developing within its own field of operation and do as he thinks. It's just that the last 10 to 11 years have had an experience of what we've seen from this government. Minister of State said that the Data Protection Authority has stated that it has no objections to the processing of data under the legislation of this Act. But to be honest, I do not see in this the proper guarantee that the proper use of data will be made by the government, and that there will be no abuse in any form. The non-compliant existence of these guarantee rules in the bill or any failure to comply with them on the part of the government makes this bill one of the reasons why we cannot support this proposal in this form. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-05-58	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, please.
u2020-11-05-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The main objective of the bill before us is to establish a system of government decision-support for individuals, the legal basis of the KSZDR. The other minor amendments to the legislation were also mentioned by the Secretary of State and by my fellow Members. I'd like to talk a little bit more about K.I.D.R. The creation of KSZDR requires an appropriate amendment of several Public Service Status Laws, so the current bill therefore contains amendments and legislative harmonisation provisions, including XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. CXXV of 2018 on Law and Government Administration In connection with the law, too. The necessary amendments to the legislation contained in the proposal will allow the precise detailed rules of the CCPD to be drawn up by the government and by the wallet in a regulation. The basic objective of the establishment of the KSDR is to establish a system for the development and implementation of a public service-wide government information system in support of the efficiency and professionality of human resources management in the public service. With the introduction of KSZDR, the government can obtain statistics from the controlled basic personnel data of the public service bodies in an automated manner faster than at present, as well as analyses using additional data from other public source systems and databases, thus making the preparation of government staff policy decisions more justified than before. This means a more efficient, more competitive public administration, which brings us another step closer to reaching the customer-friendly service state. CHAPTER XXI The Minister responsible for the development of a public service career will operate the KSDR, which is based on modern IT foundations, which meet the challenges of the 20th century. The creation of the CCPR is forward-looking, state-of-the-art. An electronic, user-friendly basic public register and administrative system is thus established for central government administrations and law enforcement bodies. This step will reduce the administrative burden for central administrations and law enforcement bodies, which will lead to more capacity and energy for the rest of the work, and will enable staff policy to be developed even more effectively than previously by creating KSDRs. Analyses, statements and government decision preparation materials may also be produced from the data available for the purposes of the CCPR. With the introduction of a government decision-support system for personnel, a modern IT system is created, which contributes to the efficiency, professionality and quality of the work in the central administration, and so I would approach the main goal of creating a real service provider and a citizen-friendly service state serving citizens. As we see these objectives being achieved in this bill, the KDNP fraction supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-60	Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP, please.
u2020-11-05-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Nacsa is no longer the same, he couldn't put in any sentence before 2010. [[Defiance.]] So it's definitely worth rethinking these communication things. [[13.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the goals that I may be able to read here quickly, the aim is to provide the necessary data, analysis, analysis of staff and salary data, and the operation of the promotional salary system, but I will not go through with it, providing statistical queries. I would now say that I could sit back at this point and say that, go ahead, Hungary, we wish you good luck and good work on this. But I'm not gonna do it, I'm not gonna sit down, because the problem is that there's always something like this that we see, and I don't know how you've been able to achieve this in the last few years, but you always start to think, start digging and thinking about what's really going on in the background, what's going to happen now, what we're gonna expect, what we're gonna have to pay attention to when you're putting something like this in. So when fake card players are playing, and we're watching it, we inevitably think it's another trick we should notice what's behind it. I was in the lucky position, or I was, to be the lead speaker of the bill when it was introduced in hotels, catering, that everyone who enters the hotel had to record different data from their tax number, and then we analyzed the matter for a long time why this is necessary, that we really believe that the most important thing to do is to whiten the economy. And I said it then, and I would like to reiterate this briefly once again, that you have begun to interpret the Eastern opening policy not only for economic policy, but also for an ever wider interpretation, and you may go there so much as to wish for a better place from this House, you go there so much, you learn so much from them that you are envious that virtually every person can be tracked and a point system can be developed. They must have read that the Chinese plan is that everyone has a score and that they can move down and down the scale. And anyone who goes below a certain score, so it doesn't match the morals of the Communist Party, can't even go to his parents' neighborhood. So according to this point system, everyone will be kept in the loop, watching where they buy, what they do, and how they live. Now the problem is, and I really think it's a problem, so believe me, I don't want to be joking and being ironic right now, that it's really a problem that when you submit one of these, and every speaker tells you that it's XXI. It's a 100th-century solution, and I'm telling you honestly that I should believe that, but I'm bound to think that there's gonna be a database with you that practically contains data that you can cross-check, from health status to various disciplinary procedures that have taken place in recent years, anything else that I say once more to that employee, in a broad sense, the employee's life is completely reviewed. When we smoke in a regular conversation with friends and tell them why we don't like, say, any of the social media players I don't want to make advertising for either of them, we always say that we're sitting with my wife and talking about, say, the kid should buy a new bag for school, and how nice it would be to see the Sümegi Castle on the weekend, and in an hour's time on our search engine, or on that social media site, school bag webshops show up, and hotel offers about the Sümegi Castle, even though we were just sitting by our phone, talking about something, and practically a minute, it shows up. The reason I'm telling you this is because what I'm seeing in this respect is that you're going to be able to see here a database of who, at what stage of your life, with whom you've been under-ordained, so you're going to get a character image of the government that's not just about what you're trying to say, but I think it's about a little more than that. That's our fear, and I'm gonna say it again, I'm sorry, but we have to say it every single moment. I will, of course, add very quietly that, once again, we see that, on the basis of the sentence "The Devil is in the Details," there are many passages in this again, which will be regulated in a separate regulation. I must say this: we do not trust you in this respect. We do not think it right that there is a law in which, where appropriate, there are open questions and then there are separate government regulations governing this. What I regret is that neither of you has said, either in relation to the expoze or in relation to the two pro-government speakers, so that, for example, paper-based administrative matters can be significantly reduced within the government, which is, by the way, a very, very important objective. I'm glad that Mr. Secretary of State mentioned the matter of the Data Protection Authority in his exposé. I'll tell you honestly, when we were watching the law, I didn't find that out, but I am willing to accept, Mr Secretary of State, that this consultation was carried out, obviously in a similar way to the advocacy organisations. I would like to say one positive thing to you, and I will not waste any more time, I see that the previous debate has exhausted everyone, so there is a very big advantage, my fellow Members, honourable Secretary of State, that in 22 we will be able to look at what we are doing and not to look at separate secret government resolutions. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-05-62	Congressman Zoltán Varga, lead speaker of DK. Here.
u2020-11-05-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The fact is, I will continue where my fellow opposition Members have largely stopped. Obviously, it is unsuspecting, to say the naive observer, that this bill seems to be a necessary thing. Just because you can see, too, that the public service is experiencing a significant shortage of staff, but there is a huge fluctuations in this area, and unfortunately, in the coming decades, demographic forecasts, we will still have to assume that there will be more and more problems in the public service. This is clearly due to the still high rate of retirement of staff and the low competitiveness of the public service in the labour market, but this is not the reason why the supply of sufficient and professionally qualified workforce is not ensured for the operation of the modern service state. That that is why we really need this bill, or at least part of the government's decision-support system, to create the basis for this law, to which we can then see, as my colleagues have said here, the salad law amends several public service status laws. I say that this could be thought of by an unsuspecting and naive reader, the one who does not know what has happened here in the last ten years; the one who believes that this proposal is intended only and can only be so. However, if we dig a little deeper in this story, we'll find out that the picture is significantly more cynical here. Let us remember that in 2006 two projects were announced as part of the public service development operational programme, worth approximately HUF 3 billion. One of them is precisely the development of this CCPR system with the aim of ensuring that the system will be able to provide the data and other information necessary for the preparation of government personnel decisions. So far, we can also say that this story is a simple, simple and pure thing. However, it is very thoughtful, unless we believe that there are a series of fatal accidents, because the winner of the public procurement for the development of KSzDR with an offer of HUF 831 million is the Tigra Computer and Office Technology Ltd., the owner of which is a gentleman named György Vertán, who is also interested in Tigra in another well-known IT company, Damit Informatics Ltd. And it's weird, and I guess it's just a coincidence, but Vertan's companies have, no, made fat contracts with the Fidesz parliamentary faction. Let's see what we're talking about. They operated the Fidesz website, I have to add, at gold prices. A lot of people used to pick on that back in the day. In one year, he paid HUF 30,5 million for all of this. For millions more, they signed for the development of the party faction website. I would like to say in silence here that this project did not really succeed, I do not think it does; but for example, this company operated the internet consultation website created by Tamás Deutsch Fidesz for 7 million. By the end of 2008, the Vertans operated all the local government IT systems. [[13.20]] Hell of a long list of references could still be listed here: the Ministry of Defence, the Administration and Justice Office, ORFK, the National Pension Insurance Directorate, the Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt., the National Rescue Service, and let me not continue. You could even say that this could probably be a coincidence. However, what God gives us is the same name if we look at the FTC's key sponsors. It is also quite clear that Mr Vertan has very intimate relations directly with Gábor Cubatov. This relationship is so direct and close that, for example, only two days after the election, Gábor Kubatov stopped by with the Prime Minister to thank the Vertans for their support. Specially charming in the story, otherwise, the National Election Office's IT system could be tampered with by these companies. I suppose it's all a coincidence, of course. [[What are you talking about?]] And it has nothing to do with the fact that now it is the task of Vertanek to develop and operate a software and database, KSZDR, the government's personal information system, which is basically designed to handle the personal and highly confidential data of every employee under the government, statistics, analyses and God knows what else he can generate. Of course, let us read in the proposal before us that there will be assurances that these data will not be comparable or comparable, but we must admit that we believe if we see it. It is shocking, and this other fear is that the ink has barely dried up in the law on the new medical service relationship, where, otherwise, it has been managed to shake and fool not only the medical society, but also a country, but this legislation would be strangely amended here and at the same time by the government. The purpose of the amendment is to provide the government with accurate and up-to-date information on the data of persons employed in the medical service, doctors, nurses and everyone else. As a result, as of January of next year, you will know virtually everything about doctors and nurses, because the government will amend the Health Service Service Act according to the fact that the health service provider will implement this by uploading the basic records and their changes and the organizational data of the healthcare provider to the system supporting the government's personal decision as set out in law. Remember, this is the IT system that your home IT companies are gonna make fun of. But there's no stopping here, because not only the medical records will be uploaded to KSDR, but also the police, government officials, finance officers and who knows who else. Practically data and this has been said here from several of my colleagues, which basically define a person; not only one person, but a perfect profile of this person can be created by comparing very simple data: here the contact details, relatives, dependants, documents, qualifications, qualifications, legal relationship, previous employment data, I do not want to list them. In the view of the Democratic Coalition, measures to prevent a persistent lack of adequate human resources capacity for the task would in any case be justified. However, we do not believe that this should be done as the bill does, but rather that the attractiveness of the public service career should be increased, the integration of those on the field and the maintenance of professional labour. On the other hand, an integrated human resources management system, based on a supportive strategy, should be developed. It is feared that the efficiency and quality problems of public services are not actually addressed by this bill, but rather focussed on getting more information on citizens and access to them by more authorities and by organisations and companies that have not yet been identified. The interconnection of systems, the simplification of data requests and the broadening of their range in this form are therefore a huge risk. My Socialist fellow Member spoke about the Chinese big brother. He's not in there anymore, or I'd be devastated if the Chinese had this system working perfectly. The feeling that you might want something similar is really coming back to me. It is interesting that, while the state's operation is increasingly opaque, a significant part of the public interest data is encrypted, for example, data has been encrypted that we do not know why defence aircraft have otherwise flown to known tourist destinations, and that what is not encrypted is not published, but that it must be sued for months and years, until we see that data collection and observation of citizens are slowly becoming total under your hands. It is obvious here, and I would like to repeat here my socialist colleague, the ambition of the Orbán government is to carry out a complete, simple control similar to that of China. I would like to draw your attention to a frank confession or interview by your Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. Remember, it also relates to data acquisition when it was discovered that the Ministry was monitoring journalists travelling abroad. Tamás Menczer stated that this was an ugly leak from the Ministry's staff, and it seems that the Minister has not fired enough employees. There can be no doubt, then, that this bill, which lies before us, is nothing more than a Chinese clone, a large brother, a complete observation and a system of control, with national glaze, a strapped Chinese clone. We cannot support this proposal in any way. Thank you.
u2020-11-05-64	Thank you very much. Now, the lead speaker of the LMP, Congressman László Keresztes, will be the group leader. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, my fellow opposition Members have formulated a wide range of criticisms regarding the bill. We can say that from benevolent to, say, gloomy style, there were speeches. I am not so disgruntled, let's just say, or not so suspicious, as my fellow Member from DK said, but we also have a number of problems with this bill, along with, of course, the aims expressed in his text and in his reasoning, which we fundamentally agree with. I do not regret at all that Mr Nacsa spoke relatively briefly to him and has not yet spoken about the 2015 period. I suppose that will happen for at least a two-minute speech. But he had some thoughts that I would like to respond briefly to. Mr President, Mr President, you spoke about efficient public administration, effective state organisation, effective state. Allow me some data. At present, if our calculations are good, 57 State Secretary, 113 Deputy State Secretary, 8 Prime Minister's Commissioners, 16 Prime Minister's Envoys, 19 Government Commissioners and 14 Ministers are in the system. On this basis, I think that talking about an efficient administration, an efficient state, an effective organisation of the state would certainly be a fool's errand. I have a lot of criticisms for the period before 2010, but if you look at only the number of ministers, the number of State Secretarys and the number of Deputy State Secretarys, you have a double headcount. So here, in my view, there is no reason to talk about efficiency in such an approach. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, spoke in relatively detail about the general opinion of opposition representatives on this type of salad law. There's no way I'd like to repeat that. In any case, we have considered as positive that this is a relatively coherent legislative amendment, i.e. it is strongly linked to each other; perhaps, except for the amendment of the municipal law, this is a little out of it, but I will perhaps discuss it in more detail later. Overall, what is the most important element of this bill is the establishment of a system to support a certain government decision on persons, and I think that this is a clearly welcome goal. My colleagues have already explained in detail that accurate and up-to-date information, faster decision-making is the goal, automated access to statistics. So the government must have a database to make these staff, work organisation decisions effectively, which is certainly justified, good and welcome. I think, of course, you can always talk about data protection concerns, cybercrime and everything else, of course. Abuse can be heard not only in domestic politics but also internationally, so I think that on this basis there is a minimum of concern and suspicion on the part of opposition colleagues. [[13.30]] At the same time, there are specific concerns about the text of the law. The proposal differentiates between reporting on persons employed under certain legal status laws. In principle, it guarantees that records may not be used for statistical purposes in a manner suitable for the identification of personal data in the registers, and it is not entirely understandable that Article 17 does not apply to such records. Paragraph 5 of the Act provides that by 31 December 2022, the civil national security service shall establish a system enabling the data collection and statistical model to be operated, or that personal identification is not possible in the use of the data. In the case of employees of other legal status, the proposal does not contain such a provision, so it can be concluded that separation and identification are not ensured on the basis of the text of the bill. It may also be a problem, and it is certainly a problem for us, the scope of the recorded data, provided that the individual records include the management of the relatives of the employees and former employees, not only of their close relatives. The Ptk. a relative in the straight line, his spouse, adoptive, step- and foster parents, adopted, foster and foster children, siblings, spouses, partners, registered partners, spouses, siblings and siblings of registered partners, and siblings of siblings. Are you sure this is the way the author wanted to propose that the data should be collected so widely? This is certainly a concern for us and it is unjustified that not only close relatives are included. It is also problematic that the possibility of accessing individual employees to their own data is also contradictory. While for most legal statuses this is guaranteed in principle in the proposal, the professional population, Hst. No provision is made for those covered by this Regulation. I have already mentioned briefly the amendment of the municipal law. Here you have mentioned, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, that there seems to be some contradiction in the system. It is also a legitimate contradiction what the Member said under the Constitutional Court provision that the legislator did not move in that direction. However, there is another contradiction: this bill makes it clear that it is considered unworthy and that its mandate is terminated if, during its term of office, a final judgment is reached for which he will be sentenced to imprisonment for intentional crime. On the one hand, if this is the intention of the legislator, it is logical from a point of view that if it was elected on the basis of an earlier judgment, it would not be possible. It could be argued with, and I would like to do so on a political basis, but it could be a legislative intention. However, this may be a problem, since it is not possible under the law on the election of representatives of local governments and mayors who are serving a final sentence. So, in principle, that would guarantee that there would be no chosen person who is unworthy. This is a problem, since it assumes that he is saying that he is talking about prisoners in prison, but not about being sentenced to a suspended sentence. Thus, there may be cases under the law where a person or mayor who receives a suspension becomes unworthy, loses his post, and then the same person can start the election to replace him for this post. That's the contradiction I'm asking you to resolve. So, overall, I can say that we are in agreement with the declared objectives, and obviously I will not repeat, in my view, the concerns that my fellow opposition Members have expressed in a significant part, but we can say with these specific comments or on the basis of these, that the proposal will not be acceptable to us in many respects, and it will not be eligible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-05-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask you, honourable Members, there is another person who would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the representatives of the factions for their comments, in particular the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, who have given their support to the proposal. I believe that this is a good proposal, and these amendments are due to the amendment of the legal status laws, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to the fulfilment of the EU's obligation and, on the other hand, to the fulfilment of the Constitutional Court's decision, as Mr Csaba Gyüre said, 11 laws have been amended as proposed. Generally, I would like to say to my fellow Members that those who believe that this law is not perfect are not in line with their position, there is an opportunity for amendments to improve this if they really believe so. I will examine all the amendments in substance, and we will then take a decision on their content. I would like to start very briefly with the comment of Mr Csaba Gyüre, with the response to that. With regard to the Constitutional Court decision, I would like to say that only in the event of a suspended judgment will there be a change in the proposal submitted; if the person becomes permanently unworthy, he cannot run for office in the next election, I will also say to Mr Keresztes. As regards the increase in salaries for the RIAS, this bill provides an opportunity, honourable Member. Each year, on the basis of the performance assessment, correction is made on the basis of the decision of the manager, but the bodies receive the necessary wage weight, so they have the opportunity to do so. Experience has shown that the wage increase has been made, and we hope that it will continue to be so in the future. As far as purpose is concerned, the amendment is made on the basis of the GDPR, which is in line with the Privacy Policy; so this system should be seen as a drawer: each body only has access to its own account, no personal data will be transmitted, only statistical content. Dear Parliament, I am sorry that Mr Gyula Molnár is no longer here, and I would also like to respond to his comments, and Mr Zoltán Varga has also partly touched on this in his speech, that the government is seeing everything, knowing everything about everyone; this is about how it could be summarised. This is not true, since the operator of the stored data is the organization providing the data, i.e. the government does not have access to these personal data, it is always recorded by the bodies. The new system, as I said, should be pictured as an account system, where the data subjects only have access to accounts within their respective scope of entitlement, the data obtained from a particular account is displayed as statistical data, so personal data will not be transmitted. Each organisation shall have access to the organisational element it uses, and only in respect of data relating to it, and in respect of statistical data, the scope and procedure are regulated; the operator of the data stored in the data collection module shall be the providing organisation, and in each case the records of each employer shall be recorded in their records or in professional systems. I really wanted to tell you that. With regard to the prediction of Mr Gyula Molnár, I would like to say that we trust that the electorate's decision will be respected by everyone and we hope that he will be disappointed with the prophecy of 2022. As regards Mr Varga's contribution to the public procurement, I would like to say that the winner had a bid of 400 million cheaper than the second prize. Before the decision, an open market consultation was held for all IT developers. Here again, I repeat that neither the operating company nor the government has access to personal data, statistical data are generated, statistical data is the number of elements of a statistical population or any other numerical characteristic of the population; not the personal data of the person, but the characteristics of the relationships are reflected in the system. When we created career laws, the point was that these careers should be interoperable, as this is in the interests of the nation, because it is important that these systems be interoperable, and the necessary uniform criteria are needed for this. As regards the comments made by Mr Lóránt Keresztes, which I thank you for, I ask you to be in good faith with those who tabled the bill, because until the contrary is confirmed, the Member is wrong about his comment. [[13.40]] The part about the Secret Service, we think, is wrong. There, too, the logic of data processing is similar, but it remains island-like, so the secret service doesn't see all the data either. As regards the amendment of the municipal law, which I said to Mr Csaba Gyüre, I can repeat in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you again for your comments. In connection with Zoltán Varga's comments, I am sorry that he did not bring here the issue of elsébetvárosi electric theft and bitcoin mining. I think it is important that, in the formulation of such ideas, when... they have also been tampered with in the server of the National Election Office, we reject this because it is completely unfounded. The Government of Hungary operates legally, and these contracts are concluded according to the law, and I am sorry that it did not mention this issue of bitcoin mining and theft of electricity in Estonia, because I think that there would have been a way to sweep the house, as classic folk wisdom says. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you very much, and I ask you to do so if you have an amending proposal, we will examine it in substance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-05-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/13475. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State István György, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-11-05-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, As Mr President has pointed out, the bill before you is the 21st of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning. It proposes to amend some of the provisions of Law 17 on priority regional development councils. The Hungarian government pays particular attention to the development and development of the Hungarian countryside. To this end, a number of significant measures have been taken over the last ten years to reduce territorial disparities. The current bill also aims to achieve these goals even more effectively, and I would like to say a few thoughts to get to know them. The basic pillar of territorial development is the concept of territorial development, which is a plan document that underpins and influences the overall development of the country and of an area, which sets out the long-term, comprehensive development objectives of the region and the guidelines necessary for the development of development programmes. It shall also provide information to actors in the sector and related territorial planning and territorial development. The National Assembly adopted the current concept of territorial development in 2014, with the designation of the 2030 national development and territorial development concept, which prioritises territorial development and catching-up objectives. The concept integrates domestic development goals and needs, defining their territorial dimensions, which also serve as the basis for a partnership agreement and operational programmes, the design documents prepared for the 2014-2020 EU planning and budgetary period. In addition, the concept sets out a long-term vision, development policy goals and principles for Hungary based on the country's social, economic, sectoral and territorial development needs and in line with the EU 2020 strategy and the commitments of the National Reform Programme. In order to achieve the objectives and tasks set out in the concept, the Regional Development and Spatial Planning Act is used to establish the rules of territorial development and spatial planning. As regards the institutional system, this Act lists the territorial bodies supplying territorial development, including regional development councils, and their statutory duties. Regional development councils are important actors in territorial development and planning, legal entities with their own responsibilities, legal status and operational rules. The county authorities may initiate their establishment either individually or jointly with the county municipality of the neighbouring county. Their task is to examine the social, economic tasks of the region, the state of the environment, identify development needs, develop a regional territorial development concept and develop a programme. They can conclude agreements with the ministers concerned on the latter's financing and play a key role in the use of budgetary resources allocated to the regions. They shall also monitor and contribute to the implementation of the operational programmes' tasks in their area. It is important to note that regional development councils do not constitute a local government association established under the law on the local governments of Hungary. Dear Parliament, Taking into account the area of operation of regional development councils, the concept and the Regional Development and Regional Planning Act name a number of areas with so-called priority regional status due to their national regional development importance. The priority development areas have been designated with the aim of achieving the long-term sustainable development of areas of importance for the country due to their vulnerability, uniqueness and economic importance, along with their specific development focus and with the cooperation of current governments and local actors. The three priority areas include greater attention and, at the same time, priority development status. In the case of Lake Balaton, the protection of tourism and natural values, in the case of the Tokaj Wine Region, as the world's first closed wine region, is justified by the need to preserve the world heritage site, the Tokaj-Hegyalja Historical Wine Region and the regional economic development based on energy production in the Central Duna Menti Featured Area. In priority development areas, the establishment of a statutory, i.e. ex lege required development advice. Therefore, three of the ten regional development councils currently in operation in Hungary, in line with the number of priority areas, are considered priorities. Named as I have just said: the Balaton Development Council, the Tokaj Wine Region Development Council and the Central Danube Development Council. The responsibilities of the Regional Development Councils are further extended to those of the Regional Development Councils set up at the initiative of the county authorities. Among the additional tasks, we find that the priority regional development councils give preliminary opinions on the highest level of national planning documents on the use of EU funds for cohesion, as well as on sectoral plans for the priority area, prepare and submit to the government the concept and programme of territorial development of the priority area, direct the implementation of the region's territorial development programme, decide on the use of the development resources referred to in their respective competences. Dear House, This bill contains an intention to amend two priority regional development councils, the Balaton Development Council and the Central Danube Development Council. The territorial detachment of the operation of both bodies is extremely large, the Central Danube Menti Featured Area has 99 settlements, while the Balaton Featured Resort Region has 180 settlements. The Balaton Development Council is committed to creating a bridge between organisations involved in the development of the region, to assist their dialogue and cooperation. The Council has an essential incentive role in the implementation of regional development and investment and in the development of projects. [[13.50]] It does so by allocating resources within its remit and by providing grants to proposals. In defining the support options, the Council takes into account the objectives set out in the agreed development programmes and the solutions to current regional tasks. The importance of the work of the Balaton Development Council is also increased by the fact that Veszprém, in cooperation with the Balaton region, has won the title of the European Capital of Culture 2023, so the development of the Balaton region can also contribute to the success of the future series of programmes. The Central Danube Development Council carries out its statutory tasks in the Central Danube Menti Featured Area, which is the region's primary major investment in Paks, while real estate and organizational development is concentrated not only on the city of Paks. The expansion of industrial capacities, the development of almost all sectors of infrastructure, and recreational developments are organised in an even wider context in the region. As you can see, these institutions are of crucial importance in a given area, but you can safely say, in the country-wide territorial development strategy and development policy. For this reason, the bill seeks to ensure that government strategies and social policy objectives are more consistent in the two large areas affected, which represent the lives of thousands of people, where significant developments are being made in the country. Under the current rules, regional development councils shall be composed of the President of the competent county assembly and an additional representative of the county assembly, as well as each representative of the ministers responsible for the implementation of operational programmes. Given that the Priority Regional Development Councils are responsible for the concept and implementation of the development of areas that contribute to the development of Hungary as a whole, it is in our common interest to increase the efficiency of their procedures and the transparency of decisions to be taken in their respective fields of competence. On this basis, according to the amendment contained in this bill, the Balaton Development Council will delegate a total of two members to the Central Danube Development Council, and the Balaton Development Council will be appointed co-chaired by the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office as Minister for Support for the Development of Government Strategies, thereby ensuring the coordination, successful implementation and proper use of the budget funds allocated to the highest level of national planning documents, national developments and sectoral and territorial plans for priority areas. Dear Parliament, The bill described above therefore facilitates the development needed in priority areas and the most appropriate use of funds for development. I ask you to support the bill submitted to Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We're gonna have lead speakers now. The first speech is by Mrs Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the proposal before us intends to amend the members and their tasks in two of three priority regional development councils in order to ensure that the tasks set by the government are as effective as possible in achieving the strategic objectives. I confess to my fellow Members that I, too, am very interested in following the ideas of territorial development, because we can see that a lot of shocks can befall our society, even in the context of an epidemic, to which we can adapt well if we develop these communities in a sustainable way not only in the short term but also in the medium and long term. As Minister of State has said, there are currently ten regional development councils, three of which are high-ranking, and these development councils, i.e. the High Development Councils, have budgetary funding, so it is very important that the tasks set are implemented as much as possible. Indeed, it is the two development councils, the Balaton Development Council and the Central Danube Development Council, in which the bill now makes changes in membership, which has no indirect or direct budgetary implications and no administrative additional burden. The Central Duna Menti Featured Area covers 99 settlements and covers three counties, and it is very important that it is a coordinated development of 99 settlements, because it is the driving sector of this region, and that is why energy production has become a priority, but it must not only respond to energy production, but also to economic development, environmental and social changes, and it must be implemented in a coordinated manner, and it must be able to take local interests and values into account. This year, this region received HUF 130 million in budget support, and next year it will be HUF 120 million, as this year the development of the concept and the draft programmes had to be prepared. While the other priority area and region is the Balaton Highest Resort, located under the Balaton Development Council, which covers 180 settlements, 18 settlements with urban rank and also covers three counties. 274 thousand people who live in this area constantly and can be expected seasonally with about 500,000 holiday owners. It is also important to see these approaches at systemic level, because indeed, this year we have seen very much that there may be extraordinary events in our lives that we can no longer ignore if we are also making certain long-term, medium-term or even short-term improvements. Last week there was the EUFORES conference, where I am a delegate, which I thank my fellow Members for an honour, and it has also been said that part urbanisation, part globalisation and part of the mass flow of the population contribute to the rapid spread of the Covid-19 epidemic, and that is why it is very important to slow down the urbanisation process and one of the tools of this is local community retention, support for local communities and their development. The short-term effects are already visible, since we do not know the medium- and long-term effects, which apply to the epidemic, but short-term impacts highlight the reduction in mobility and the geographical proximity principle in both tourism and travel and in the purchasing chains of companies. If we take these into account, it is very important to pay attention to sustainable transport development, sustainable modes; and it was also visible this year that energy consumption fell by 20 percent, which also caused uncertainty on the oil market and on the energy market that the markets felt. For example, Hungary considers it a priority to develop domestic, relatively cheap and, if possible, low-level or reaching energy production methods for greenhouse gas emissions; for example, we are increasingly strengthening the role of nuclear power and solar power in the production of electricity. [[14.00]] I thought to mention this to my fellow Members because, if we look at these priority areas, whether we look at the Central Duna Menti Featured Area or the settlements in the area of the Balaton Development Council, all of them consider it a very important task by promoting cooperation and coordination between municipalities, using local road and rail development; if, for example, we look at the Central Duna Menti Featured Area to develop water transport, bicycle routes to safely work, provide housing, help the development of corporate sites, logistics areas, develop municipal water utilities, waste management, develop municipal development, basic health care, public education, food supply, enterprise development, labour training, tourism development. If you look at the municipal developments supported by the Balaton Development Council, you can also find programs for the development of public safety, water safety, support for the development of waterfront and other community areas, support for events or support for waste water management programmes. And indeed, the objectives of the proposals submitted by the municipalities include tourism development, economic development as a support for the installation of solar systems, or the development of sustainable urban transport or sustainable urban transport in transport. This is important, because if we really are thinking about urban development and regional development, then we need to see our goals and tasks very complexly, and because we are talking about councils with budgetary funding, it is important that we really focus on the effectiveness of the tasks to be carried out. That is what this bill is aimed at, which is why I propose to my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now it's time for the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congresswoman Anita Potocskasi Kőrösi. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment to the law on spatial development and spatial planning lies ahead of us, and I would have been delighted if there had been real changes at Lake Balaton under the title of territorial development and spatial planning. But what's happening here? It's a custody thing. All that happens is that the Ministry of Finance is placed under the custody of the Prime Minister's Office. I would like to explain this further, and express my indignation at what you have launched against István Bóka, mayor of Balatonfüred, in a beautiful proposal for a law of honey. What's this whole story about? Every year, the Balaton Development Council struggles to develop developments at Lake Balaton, to develop strategies to improve tourism and to make it more attractive for both domestic and foreign tourists. Since 2010, István Bóka, mayor of Balatonfüred, has been leading this body, and otherwise they are doing their job brilliantly, and there are indeed results. Yes, but Mayor Bóka has once or twice expressed disapproval of government operations, and he has also done so in the case of the Siófok Observatory, against which I myself have spoken here in Parliament, and since then I have been trying to get the government to step up and stop the investment that was planned for the observatory. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But what's happening? Mayor Bóka also expresses his concern that the construction of that apartment house is private and that private interests cannot prevail in the public interest, and then, in a few months' time, we have this proposal, where you would like to have two co-chairs now, so that you can only convene the meeting together. I'm used to being there at these meetings, aren't I? It's been happening online, and I always listen to the talks that go on there at a high level of professionalism. So one is that they can call it together and the other is that they are now working together to carry out these presidential tasks. My fellow Member, Mónika Bartos, says that this will not entail any additional administrative burden. Well, I think that mayor Fox and the newly appointed, we don't know who he is yet, but I'm sure the co-chair will have to coordinate the operation, and I'm sure that there will be some challenges when these developments come up against us, or will it come that you, the Prime Minister's Office, are interfering with the decision of the Ministry of Finance, and perhaps the only mayor of the Balaton Development Council is still in it, but as president, your mayor will be pushed out of the chair, or can I now say, from the co-chair seat? You've decided that. It's quite amazing that when someone says otherwise to you, the answer is to put someone on your side. And what is in the explanatory statement is quite amazing is that the co-chair is placed there because it ensures the proper use of budget funds. Are you saying that the current Balaton Development Council is not using budget funds properly? Then start an investigation immediately. Then we must not put a co-chair there, but then we must launch those appropriate legal acts and investigations to find out what the problem is. In 2019 and 2020, according to the provisions of the Balaton Development Council, it is about HUF 220 million that came from the central budget to develop locally on the basis of proposals received directly from the Balaton Development Council. Minister of State said that Veszprém County will be Europe's cultural capital in 2023, and there will be additional tasks here as well. But write down that this is the only way to ensure that the budget funds will be used according to the law, it's absolutely amazing! This is nothing else: you are crossing President István Bóka's work, Mr. Mayor, and putting him under guardianship. I would very much like to see in this regional planning and regional development bill that, for example, at Club Aliga, public parks and roads will not be privateised, let's say. I really wanted to see this, or to see that we wouldn't really build the direct beach in the area of Lake Balaton or Lake Fertő and Lake Venice, because now we can see what's there. No! What's your priority? To secure the Ministry of Finance by the Prime Minister's office. So this whole bill is typical of your governance. They are simply unable to deal with those who have different opinions, such as ruining a well-functioning system, and they are doing so by using these budgetary resources properly so far, and I think they would continue to be properly used without a co-chair system. And I now note in parentheses that I would be very, very curious to hear the opinions of the Members of Parliament around Lake Balaton, Fidesz Members of Parliament. I am very pleased that Mr Károly Kontra is here, because he is also concerned on the northern shore of Lake Balaton, but I would be pleased to know that it is good to have another co-chair placed in custody over Mayor Bóka in the Balaton Development Council. But I would like to know the opinion of Mihály Witzmann or Attila Móring József, Zoltán Fenyvesi or Jenő Manninger [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not above!]] because this is a common concern for all of us, and I think that you, Mr. Congressman, Mr. Secretary of State, should be able to stand up to the maximum that the public funds, the budgetary resources, have been properly used, and that does not require the mayor of Balatonfüred, the President of the Balaton Development Council, to be given guardianship. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-11-05-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.10]]
u2020-11-05-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, we are not against a long bill here, but if the congresswoman has already expanded the debate with her speech on Siófok and Balaton shore, then let me do it, as Fidesz-KDNP is very, very important to the development of the countryside against the pre-2010 rural ruin policy, just so that my fellow Member Gyula Molnár does not say that I did not mention the world before 2010; he has accused me of this.Before 2010, the Gyurcsány government allowed the countryside to become poorer, they played the Hungarian land into the hands of foreigners, they destroyed the Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian food industry, the family economy, and they have made whole regions unemployed. By contrast, after 2010, the primary consideration and priority was the regional development approach, the country's national strategic interest and the coordination of the interests of local residents. I am glad that such priority development areas could be created, which are of particular importance to the whole country in some way, but it is also important that they serve the interests of local residents, and these aspects, which are never easy, no one has said that it is easy to look at energy issues, tourism issues, or even the aspects of preserving a closed wine region, the world's first closed wine region, world heritage section, with regard to local residents, living conditions, life-likeness, but I still think that these are very, very important aspects of finding the points where we can align national interests with the interests of local people and find a common pair of rails, so that these improvements can come into being. It is equally important to think strategically in the future, to give these regions a vision of the future. This is why it is important that these councils were not formed yesterday, they did not just start to work, there is a concept, there is expertise behind them, there is a concept of urban development, territorial development, and there is a source behind which we have been able to judge these areas on the basis of the performance of the honourable Member, the government, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian taxpayers and the Hungarian businesses, because we consider it important to develop these regions. That is why we were able to report on the results of last year, the year before and this year, which Mrs Mónika Bartos spoke about, how important, big and significant resources are coming into these regions. I just want to make it right: no one puts anyone above or above, at most. So if you can read the bill, then it's obvious. No custody. Neither the Treasury Department gets custody, nor anyone. The fact that the Prime Minister's Office, as an organisation for government coordination, responsible for coordinating government work and implementing the government strategy, is involved in strategic issues and decisions, I think it is right. I think it is right because the Prime Minister's Office is the ministry where all government coordination meets, where it is the implementation of the government strategy, the accountability of the government strategy, which is one of the very important tasks. The fact that such priority strategic regions, regions such as the Central Danube, the Lake Balaton or the Tokaj region, should prevail far from a month, not a year from now, not in this time horizon, but in a period of 8-10-15-20-30 years, these strategic aspects, so that the interests of the Hungarian economy and the people living there are in line with the following period, as we have been trying to enforce in recent years. And Congresswoman spoke of Siofok's examples. He did not mention why industrial park development was not progressing despite winning proposals there; he did not mention why precipitation water drainage was not progressing, which would also have been a development there, only you, I don't know, in some way... There's always no development, they can never do it, they can do it. Nor did the congresswoman mention that only Siófok has received a dedicated HUF 50 billion development resource in recent years, in the last cycle, for the benefit of the people living there, for the benefit of tourism and, by the way, for the benefit of the development of the region, such huge resources have also come to Siófok City. I think you should have said a few words about these too, honourable Member. But we can agree that Hungary as a whole, the Hungarian countryside and, by the way, the development of these development areas and the priority development areas, the common thinking, the strategic directions, so that this development is not possible, but that it is based on an important strategy to match national interests and match the interests of the people living there, because it is important that their living conditions and their living conditions improve, while, for example, a town on the shore of Balaton can serve a huge amount of tourists in tourism, hospitality in a season, but still the place of people living there, so that all of these aspects should prevail and that we do not lose sight of the goals that are strategic goals, which are not for the next week or the next month, but for the coming years; that this should be an ever-increasing course; that resources can continue to grow; that improvements can be achieved; that these are not blocked. And the fact that, by the way, the main government coordination body is involved, involved and engaged in a task, does not seem to me to be a deterrent or disadvantage at all, but an advantage. That is why we will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-05-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Tóth, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Chapter XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning According to law, there are three so-called priority regional development councils in Hungary: the Balaton Development Council, the Tokaj Wine Region Development Council and the Central Danube Development Council. The bill submitted by the Prime Minister's Office concerns the personal composition of these councils, i.e. the Balaton resort area and Paks II. advice on investment-related tasks. At present, the departments concerned may delegate two members to the development councils, while each authorised minister may delegate one delegate. The proposal gives greater influence to the minister responsible for supporting the development of government strategies in the two regional development councils. He alone will have the right to delegate several members to the Central Danube Development Council, while the other ministers will still be able to send only one member. What is really interesting, however, is that the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office will be entitled to delegate the co-chair to the Balaton Development Council. So far, there has been only one president of the Council, so it is easy to see that the amendment weakens the position of the current President. The bill does not really provide a valid justification for why, but merely mentions that the central budget is also providing support to these two councils, which is why the Minister has a greater say in this. In recent years, it has become clear that both the Lake Balaton and the Paks II. investment is not only dealt with by the government in professional terms, political interests have also appeared. For this reason, the Prime Minister's Office is not satisfied with the work of the development councils or with their results. Especially with the Balaton Council, they may be truly dissatisfied, as they have even rewritten the presidential system to its co-chairs; they want to bring the leading position to themselves in part. In summary, it can be concluded that, for the time being, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office is now gaining greater influence on these two regions, while others, especially the members of the country, are going to lose some. If there is a valid technical justification for the amendments in addition to the reference to vague budgetary considerations, they will not be brought to the attention of the Parliament. Without explanations, a bill that leads to personal changes within the development councils cannot be supported by our faction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-05-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK Group.
u2020-11-05-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, we have a relatively short bill before us. It could be called the open invasion of Lake Balaton during the epidemic. About a decade ago, I remember it was a popular resort for Hungarian workers on Lake Balaton. Those who couldn't afford to go to the Croatian or farther beaches were able to spend a few days there with the family, the little kids, Grandma and Grandpa, even a week, without any problems. [[14.20]] It reflects well the worldview of your world, the attitude of your system to Lake Balaton and the state of the country by the transformation of Lake Balaton itself. The lake is now far from the resort of the Hungarian working families, but it is a resting place for the rich, and that, no, the biggest beneficiaries of the change are located directly in the Prime Minister's environment. In the last decade, Lake Balaton has become a resting place for the privileged, the oligarchs of the party state. The local government entrepreneurs, the family of the Prime Minister, are now buying up the best waterfront land and areas to build luxury apartments or hotels. The new regulation gives these constructions a privilege at the expense of the green surface and the freely accessible waterfront, and in the coming years the government will spend hundreds of billions of forints on the development of Lake Balaton. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Is that bad?]] So it is no wonder that he wants to determine the composition of the Balaton Development Council itself. The biggest investor and the biggest winner of the changes are, of course, Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz. The Prime Minister's good friend and son-in-law are 14 campsites, 10 hotels around Lake Balaton, but they also have a winery, a port and a golf course in their portfolio. Otherwise, I'll tell you a secret here, but you know better than I do that in the real estate market, it's generally believed that it's a good omen to live or move to a place where the Ripper family invests or buys something, because such a neighborhood will develop shortly and in an incredible way, obviously from public sources. Just as the Mészáros-Tiborcz interest circle, the oligarchs around the Prime Minister began to expand at Lake Balaton, there was a new Balaton law and a development plan even though the area of the lake does not have a common management system today. You know, we know, the program for the development of Lake Balaton was submitted by the government at the end of 2016, with 365 billion forints spent partly on tourism development from EU sources. Of course, we say that this is a good thing in parentheses: it could be. Because if we look at the path of these funds, we will find out that the European Union's resources have largely ended up in known pockets. They supported developments from this, from which not the Hungarian workers and even those on the shores of Lake Balaton are those who profited, but mostly the Orbán and its buddies. In 2016, Mészáros became one of the largest hotel chains in the country, Hunguest Hotels. Then, interestingly, Mészáros also became the Balatontourist, and the largest tourist business in Hungary was established. Interestingly, last year the government decided to give HUF 5 billion to the development of the Balaton campsites, the development of the campsites, most of which are also in the hands of Mészáros or Tiborcz. Besides, there is no reason to complain to the Orbán family or to Orbán's friend, as we can see that Mészáros has become the owner of Balaton Camping and Guesthouse in Badacsonyörs, the property of Yacht Camping in Balatonalmádi, an area of 6.4 hectares in the centre of Almádi, and the Balaton Hotel in Keszthely on the shore. You say we have heard here in several speeches that it is the interests of the inhabitants of the place. Tell me what kind of local Hungarian citizen it is in the interest of being surrounded by oligarchs, fellows of the Prime Minister and son-in-law of the Balaton! What local interest is it that there are settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton where the inhabitants can't even go to the beach? What interest does it have in the fact that the Balaton Development Council, as my colleague said here, is being taken over by the government, obviously with the undisclosed intention that those funds, those development directions, those projects that appear in the council, will become manageable and that someone will be placed in the position of co-chairman. The question is not, otherwise, that the invasion of Lake Balaton is taking place, because that's what we all see from Debrecen, the question is, who will be in the position of co-chair of the Balaton Development Council, because he will determine what will happen in that area. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-05-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Members, the Secretary of State, also spoke a little more on a very, very important issue than on the specific bill, but then Mónika Bartos made a very detailed speech and I agree with a significant part of it. Congressman Nacsa spoke to him in such a way that he spoke a little bit before 2010 on a rural-destructive policy, on which I think we would agree on a lot of things, and then talked about the policy of supporting the region of Fidesz-KDNP, which I think we will certainly not agree on at all. But overall, it is important that we widen this issue and tried to put it into a system that, in my view, basically determines Hungary's future, what we can do to reduce territorial differences, to break down the Hungarian countryside and to develop the countryside. Perhaps, in the course of the debate, we can say that, at least in terms of objectives, let us say that we agree, perhaps everyone who governed before 2010, who are currently in government after 2010, and who have not yet been given the opportunity to govern, I think we can at least agree on certain things. But let us be clear, the Secretary of State said, and also Mr Nacsa, how much the government has done for these purposes. The Secretary of State specifically addressed the reduction of territorial differences and the development of the countryside. Let's just get this straight. I suggest we start a debate like this from what position at all. Unfortunately, we can see that there are still four regions in Hungary among the 20 poorest regions in the Union. This has not been changed in any way by the governments that have been ruling since the accession of the European Union, and neither have you. By the way, we can say that our position is relative, obviously only based on very general and harsh indicators, but on this classification it is clear that the Hungarian regions, the poorest regions of Hungary, unfortunately lost their position in the EU. Obviously, we are less interested here in what this position looks like, what is important to us is that these regions are able to develop, to maintain their population, and that areas with different characteristics within these regions can also start on the road to development. You have not been able to achieve this in particular. So I think that modesty would certainly be justified when such a speech is prepared. There are huge territorial differences, and we can measure this in many respects, such as wage differences, and it is clear that in small settlements, as much as you support small settlements in words, many of you have less access to the most important public services. So over the past few years, in the last two or two and a half years, since I've been here in Parliament, I've confirmed with a lot of concrete statistics that small settlements are in a much worse situation, despite the fact that programmes have started. I have also said many times that I also agree perfectly with the programme of the Hungarian village, with the objectives set out, but the financing system behind it is insufficient. Let me give you two concrete examples of the outcome of your development policy. A short time before the Parliament, there was a presentation on the priority development areas, the Central Danube Area, and a decision was also taken on the establishment of special development zones. Then there was a debate here, and I also set a concrete example that here in the special economic zones Minister Süli, Member, made an interesting statement, and he said that Paks would not be a special economic zone, because there is no political problem with decision-making. So he immediately said that the aspect here was not territorial development, but political streamline. This is exactly the example of this region in Paks-Tamási's area. What we know is that Paks alone is a huge economic potential, Paks distorting the economic performance of the entire region upwards, and we can see now that the start of the Paks expansion. [[14.30]] And yet, in this region, relatively close to Paks, in this small area, you can see, for example, the city of Tamási, where I have visited a great deal in recent times, the people there have invited me many times, and they have shown their problems that there are so many people who live and use outskirts, where there are no drinking water, no public lighting, no garbage transport, no public transport and no covered roads, and this is clearly a development region. This Tamási region, by the way, is the Adorján-újtelep and the other parts of Tamási, which are not equipped with the most basic infrastructure, and it has caused serious problems and challenges when we struggled to take the water out at least when it was carried out with the truck, not when there are no people in the house who put up their pots, leaving the drinking water for hours in the burning sun, and in this way it is no longer suitable for consumption. So there are these amazing differences. One more example, perhaps, is a more personal example. I am from Pécs, but we know that Pécs is unfortunately already the centre of the largest city in Transdanubia, a remote region and county. I go to the county a lot, and I go to the region a lot, and I see so many times in South Baranya as I walk in small villages, that there are different job ads posted at bus stops, that you can go to work, say, Vas County, Zala County or Budapest, and they provide accommodation, and you can rip the phone number off, you can leave South Baranya, otherwise you can leave the Ormania. It is shocking to me that we are here, that you are not giving us a chance to stop the demise of the countryside and to ensure a meaningful development. And let's hear the nice passwords, let's hear these thoughts, but you would have had ten years to prove that these goals could be achieved. In order to have the chance at all to use the resources available in specified quantities that can be drawn from the Union for real territorial development purposes, it is necessary to build a system that guarantees this, and this is by no means the centralisation that you are implementing. I am very pleased that István Bóka mentioned Mayor of Balatonfüred, Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, although I do not know how good it will be for the Mayor that he is protected by opposition representatives in Parliament, but I will do the same, and I will mention him as a good example, he is a Fidesz mayor in Balatonfüred. I know him personally, we worked together in the Committee of the Regions of the European Union for three years, I was a member of the national delegation, then I had the pleasure of knowing the mayor, his principles, and I can tell you that he is the one who actually realizes the vision of the civil Hungary in his actions, on which Fidesz-KDNP once built its own power; of course, this time he is not thanking him, but the mayor is pursuing such a policy. It is indeed a dedicated, very well-prepared mayor. Perhaps many of you in the Committee of the Regions do not know what kind of body is an EU, we can say that such a shadow parlament, a shadow second chamber of the European Parliament, was about bringing local and regional aspects into the European Union's legislation and decision-making process. This is a body that has 350 members, only provincial representatives, representatives of local governments, and the rest, and they are the guarantee that, on the one hand, the European Union's decision-making and development policy can be brought closer to the local level, right, because it is very distant to people, I think we all agree that the European Parliament is operating in such an ivory tower and that legislation should be more meaningful in the interests of people, more precisely: the interests of people and these aspects of development should be better reflected in the policy of the European Union. I've worked on this body for three years, I've been to a lot of places, I've seen good examples in a lot of places. In the beginning, it defined the position of the Hungarian local government, who we were with, who we worked with in European politics. The Hungarian delegation consists of mayors, county presidents, mayor of small settlements, district representatives, and at times has been compared with our friends in the European Union who they represent; provincial prime minister, provincial minister of economics, then the mayors of capital cities, i.e. there are extremely serious players in the Committee of the Regions, let us say, the presidents of the Italian regions. You may know, fellow Members, the power of the head of a region in Italy or the marshals of the Polish Vojvodinas, and it will show that there is a huge difference, the difference in the way in which the state is organised, the extent and resources of which, for example, a Hungarian county president, such as the Marshal of a Polish Vojvodina, who can make meaningful decisions, can give substance to regional development decisions, for example. And so we have come to see examples in many places that, say, we have seen a substantial change in the development of areas starting from the same or worse position, a positive change over the last few years, because local decision-making has been more effective, rather than the national level, rather than a central government dictatorship, and they have used development resources on the basis of it, but indeed regional parliaments and regional leaders elected by the locals have been able to exercise meaningful influence, and this is certainly seen. Since I mentioned the example of South Transdanubia, the Polish region of Transcarpathia, Podkarpackie, has a similar performance in terms of GDP per capita, and there is already a huge difference. There, by the way, you can say that there is a political leadership with an ideological orientation close to you, and the Marshal who works there I appreciate very much, an engineer, an extremely good expert in this regard, and we can see how well the capital of that region is, how spectacularly it is developing, let us say, compared to Pécs, simply because it can be seen that it is completely different to think about land development, has a different policy and enforces it, allowing local decision-making and local responsibility to use development resources. With this, we can say that it is completely contrary to your development policy, the organisation of your development policy, and what we are now seeing is precisely that you intend to centralise this further. And if we can see a good example of development policy, such as the Balaton Development Council, we can see a character who is a pro-government player who is doing well, Anita Potocsányé Kőrösi also praised István Bóka, we can see that you are involved in this, and make it impossible for such a good regional development council to operate independently and put such a government commissioner there. But I would also like to ask you back: not so long ago we saw a decision I can't even follow, by the way, that the Prime Minister appointed some sort of regional development government commissioners a few months ago, we saw that Tibor Navracsics in North Transdanubia, Éva Mikes in South Transdanubia, was appointed, Minister Palkovic became the Commissioner for Development in North Hungary and Pál Nemesi, who didn't become the Commissioner for Development of the Lowland region in the South. How does that compare then? What are their roles? What are they doing? Because what I see is that once again, political agents are being appointed to manage regional development policy, which again points to centralisation. So what I can say is that this proposal is not in any way eligible for us, and it is establishing a very, very bad direction for centralization on the part of the government. I say this by saying that I am committed to rural development, and even though I live in Pécs, which is the largest city in Transdanubia, I have also done a lot of work on the problems of rural areas that are falling apart on a professional basis, the situation of small settlements, the issue of infrastructure and public utility development. I have seen the destruction before the change of regime, what village-breaking, village-murdering policy has been implemented, I know the literature that has revealed this, and we can see very good examples of how good movements have started in the debate of the village-janitorial service at that time. I can see that, and I have a very hard time criticizing the anti-rural policy of Balliberal governments, but I can tell you that you continued exactly where your Balliberal ancestors left off. Obviously, I will not be able to express my opinion in detail, my criticisms about your development policy and the policies that the Member mentioned. You talked about sustainable transport, about the provision of water utilities, about improving accessibility in rural areas. My only question, Congresswoman, is that I really agree with this, and I agree with the objectives that you have set out, but how do you see it: why doesn't the government, for example, do that? Why doesn't the government achieve these very important goals? We could go through policies where the government practically failed. If we look only at public transport, we have always had the right to criticise policy-makers of the period before 2010, government policy and transport policy, and then you have not implemented any meaningful, meaningful reform. Professionals have made proposals, either long or decades ago, to show, either on Western examples or on any other consideration, how to organise an efficient Community transport, taking into account the amount of resources and the resources available. You have done nothing about this. There has been a lot of talk about national bus manufacturing in recent years, so where is the national bus production? They didn't make it. I think we all agree on the importance of public transport. [[14.40]] Congresswoman also mentioned the challenges posed by the coronal virus epidemic. Well, just recently Prime Minister announced the new measures, and the government has decided, for example, to increase and concentrate the number of flights for public transport, which is a very, very important measure, because if there are more flights, then obviously congestion can be reduced and the risk of infection reduced. But why does the Prime Minister not then face the motion of his own government and the decision of his own faction to take the support of municipal community transport this year? Therefore, they make it impossible for the municipalities to implement this measure, which you consider important, because they have taken away the resources. And we can list the impact of other restrictions on municipal operations, such as the withdrawal of motor vehicle taxes. I do not know how familiar they are with municipal policy, but you obviously know how difficult the financing of local public transport is anyway, and what additional difficulties this epidemiological situation has brought to the organisation of local community transport. Compared to this, you've been cutting them down, and now you're demanding that the flights be compressed. On the one hand, the municipalities have no resources and on the other hand there are no professionals. And it is also a system problem that has existed for many long years that there are no professionals. I could list these problems for a long time, and I will do so in a next comment. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-05-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocskasi in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you one more question here about the debate. We are talking about three priority areas for development, and if everything is nice and good, why not introduce the co-chair system with the other two? Why is the co-president system being introduced at the Balaton Development Council? I'd like an exact answer to that. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: For the TOP applications.]] I am very pleased that my fellow Member Nacsa is on top of the TOP applications in Siófok. Say hello to my fellow Member, Mihály Witzmann, through the camera. Obviously, I didn't just come off the wall. Well, let's talk about the Siófok TOP money and the TOP applications, and I think that's where this belongs. I remember when we signed these contracts in 2016, the two contracts you mentioned. Then there was a cost estimate of how much this would cost. By the way, the city of Siófok, if we're at the rainwater now, then the 200 million-dollar investment has a share of 200 million. It's okay, the contract's signed. Yes, but since the tender was submitted, and then the great municipality of Somogy County decided that it would be a good one, a year has passed. After that, public procurement was announced, and you obviously know that the prices of construction materials and labour market prices have increased, and of course this amount cannot be made from that amount. What can the municipality do? He's asking for more resources, that's what we can do. Except they say there's no surplus. It's the same in the industrial park. Well, you can't do that anymore. But this is not only in Siófok, but in countless TOP applications it is a huge problem. Obviously not for softball players, because it's not a problem for softball applications, but it's what infra-red investment suffers. And you don't provide the budget for this. Well, then, what can the municipality do? You can borrow, yeah. But the local government that drives its head into borrowing during this covidos period... well, let's think about it a little bit. You've taken away the car tax, you can't collect tourist tax, then you can see the movements at the business tax, and anyway, many municipalities can expect a reduction in business tax revenues, so if you want to complete the TOP investment, then take out a loan. That's what you're inviting the local governments to do. They tell you to fix it because they can't give you a source. Of course, local residents need to make investments. I fully support this. But under what conditions? Well, once something's tied up in 2016, we're here in 2020 and we're still talking about public procurement procedures. Well, obviously, you can't do it for that much anymore, everyone should know that. There was also talk about public utility networks. I absolutely agree with my fellow Member, Bartos, on how important this development is; it is very important at Lake Balaton. Thousands of real estate owners are now created in these apartment houses. Most of the power lines are old, 60-70-year-olds can also be the high pressure lines on which the water and sewage flow. If new real estate owners are gonna connect us to these systems, we'll be able to think about what kind of pipe breaks they're gonna be, and how much that's gonna cost. You do not provide the source for this, but imposed a public utility tax on these utilities. I was very happy about it, and I think my fellow Member is a Cross when we heard from President Bánki at the Economic Committee that the government is thinking about restructuring it. The time has come, a few years have passed, and opposition representatives have constantly said that the public utility tax is a barrier to the reconstruction of public utility lines, because companies cannot invest in such a way as to pay taxes into the central budget. Then where that goes and what do they do with it? Obviously, we know what you spend this money on, mostly for propaganda and media, and here the development of public utility networks is not realized by building thousands of real estate on the shore of Lake Balaton. This Regional Development Act should have been about preventing them from introducing normal height limitations, introducing a meter limit to prevent the construction of real estate and apartment houses. They also take away the little after-the-last piece of Lake Balaton from the Hungarian people! That's your policy. I would be very curious if my fellow Member Witzmann might write to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, what he thinks about this, that it is good that the President of the Balaton Development Council, who dares to speak the truth, and, by the way, leads the Balaton Development Council well, professionally, you will put him under guardianship and put a government specialist next to him. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-85	Thank you very much. I'm trying to keep track of the country's affairs. I called Congressman Witzmann, but he didn't answer, so I couldn't talk to him. Nevertheless, I understood the answers to my questions raised. There's an explanation, no results. The projects have not been implemented, and they are winning projects. Understood. I hope the mayor of Siófok isn't threatened like other mayors that it doesn't matter whose side they're on in 2022 and what kind of threats you make to other mayors. Congressman Varga made me understand what's wrong. It is bad to have hundreds of billions of forints of resources arriving at Lake Balaton. He said he suspected that hundreds of billions of forints of resources would arrive at Lake Balaton. It's bad for a neighborhood to be renewed. He said it wouldn't do him any good if the neighborhoods were to be renewed from state resources. I would ask my fellow Member, Mr Potocsány, as a representative in the area of Balaton, to confirm to me my sentences for the period before 2010 that around 2004-2005-2006, Lake Balaton had fought, it was often empty, there were many unorganized, weeded, weeds-ingrown campsites on the shore of Lake Balaton. Unfortunately, it was a bad time for my beloved Balaton. Their period, with whom they are now seeking joint governance, was a period of Lake Balaton, which is absolutely not a reminder of the glorious eras of Lake Balaton. The '70s were quoted by the condition in which they pushed the Balaton back then. Why was that? My fellow Member also knows that he is about to govern with those who sold Siótour, Zalatour and Balatontour for pennies. Only the Siótour office had a beach area of 1.5 million square meters. The three offices together were sold by the Gyurcsány government for 8 billion forints, for pennies, well below their value. Ferenc Gyurcsány was the Prime Minister when this could happen, Congresswoman. Then where were you? Then where was his hunger strike, where were his live videos, where were his demonstrations, where were his speeches when the entire Balaton was stolen by Ferenc Gyurcsány? How could this happen, Congresswoman? Where were you when Ferenc Gyurcsány stole a vacation house in Balatonesöd and hired it back with the state for ten years for two and a half million forints? ! For a huge amount of money, he had the state rent his own vacation home back. Then, if your candidate, Ferenc Gyurcsány, returns the stolen villa from the shore of Lake Balaton, there may be some common ground to discuss. Or does the name SCD Group mean anything to you? Criminal association, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his associates, when the state wealth simply became private property when they committed robbery on the shore of Lake Balaton. [[14.50]] That was the emergency age next to Lake Balaton, that was the time of degradation next to Lake Balaton, and yet you have now decided to associate yourself with them, and that anti-Balaton policy that Ferenc Gyurcsány represents here, what Congressman Varga has been doing, you have now decided to help them back into power with all their political moves, with all their breast width. This is what's happening, honourable Member. In 2006, the Law allowing the installation of the Lake Balaton coast was adopted. Don't blame us. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: You've been steering for ten years... the president's ringing.]] In 2006! The Gyurcsány Party called the Democratic Coalition, but at that time it was not called DK, it was passed by the leadership and presentation of Ferenc Gyurcsány. György Szilágyi, of course, tries to deny the truth as regularly, even now... [[György Szilágyi on his way to his seat: I am coming to speak! I'm gonna answer you right now, so I came here... the president's ringing the bell.]] I'm talking now, thank you. It is quite amazing that you stand up and tell us what would be good for Lake Balaton, while you are now trying to bring to power precisely those who destroyed the shore of Lake Balaton, fought it down, sold it out, made the state's wealth private, and simply carried out an amazing destruction. I used to be a teenage child, watching it every summer, sometimes when we were walking by that neighborhood just dying for what they did. And by the way, can you tell me who bought and what kind of camping they've been operating since? Because it didn't work then, and now it's working. That is the question, Madam honourable Member, and it is very, very false that there is talk of an emergency era in Balaton, and I do not know what Congressman Varga said here, that so far there have been crowds, and now there can be no crowds there when all the records have fallen there this summer. Of course, the epidemic has something to do with it, but every record has been broken by the number of guest nights booked there. There were a lot of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians this summer at Lake Balaton, as the number of holidaymakers in the area of Lake Balaton has increased steadily in recent summers. You're gonna want to watch another movie. At least when there are facts, there are data on which we can all rely, because these facts, then do not try to deny them, and do not try to tell them with such a completely inverted rhetoric that we want, I do not know what kind of destruction we want to do at Lake Balaton! That's them, now you guys, the logos are in line all the time, they're furnished, they want to keep politics together! And I can say the same to Mr Keresztes: your party president said that Ferenc Gyurcsány and I are preparing for joint governance. And you can tell me... [[For signal:]] This is your party president. He's got his eyebrows on him, not me. He said that. I didn't say that. When you say that you do, that is a rural-destructive policy, and yes, there is something I say about what anti-rural policy it was before 2010, then consider that you are saying this to us in opposition, but you would like to govern with them, according to your party president's signal, that you would like to govern with that rural-breaking policy. I suggest we stick to version A. You will continue to tell us this as an opposition, and we will stay here in the government, and then everyone will have a simpler life, and maybe it will be better for Hungary. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-05-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Group Leader, please.
u2020-11-05-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Nacsa, as a pro-government Christian Democrat, that Balliberal, left-wing robbery is the excuse for the Fidesz-KDNP robbery privatisation. The excuse for theft on the left? I would like to ask you, we have had this debate before, you rightly criticized the M5 motorway concession, the M6 trail, and the rest, and you say that when I criticized the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, you defended yourself with this. So if this could have been done by the Balliberal governments at the time, then you can do it, too? So you think you can call back and do the same thing? And you're talking about explaining, no results. I think that is exactly the case with you: there is now an explanation, there is no result. I usually want to talk about facts. But the development policy, honourable Member, is that there is a state asset in a derelict state, and instead of providing resources for renovation, and it could be refurbished and used, it would be accessible to everyone, instead of giving it to some oligarch, and then opening calls for funds that could then be renovated from state, EU, or whatever sources, and that would actually be renovated, it would already be private property, often being isolated from the Hungarian citizens, which was renovated from their tax. This is your development policy. And I think it would be right for private wealth to remain private, not to reduce the nation's wealth, but to increase it, and to renew it by using development resources. It's exactly the opposite of what you're doing. And by the way, you mentioned my party president, Mr. Matthew Kanász-Nagy, co-president. He didn't talk about wanting to govern with Ferenc Gyurcsány. He suggested, by the way, that the left should be left to the left, like you, that he had such opinion leaders' portals, and he challenged their criticism by suggesting that Ferenc Gyurcsány should retire, or something like that was said by Máté Kanász-Nagy. He certainly didn't say that. Mr. Congressman, I suggest that you not inform yourself of the title of News TV, but go at least three sentences down and find out what Matthew the Great said, but I do not think he needs me to protect him. Look up your statements, and if you think it's important, talk to him about it. And I still have to go a little further, because it was not enough to have 15 minutes, because I would like to reply in a concrete way to Mrs Mónika Bartos, because I think it is important that if there is a pro-government Member on whom I see that he is coming prepared for a debate and that he is making policy statements that are correct and that are joining the subject of the law, then I think that we, too, opposition representatives, have a responsibility to continue such a debate. From time to time, Congressman Nacsa tries a little by going to the polls here before 2010 to answer that question, but I would like to go back to this policy debate: if we agree on these principles and we find them in the various statements of the Fidesz election program is not going to be ready for you, then why is this not what the government is doing? I have spoken about community transport, and my time is about to pass, and you acknowledge that, Prime Minister, the government has announced that it will require the crowding of public transport, but I hope now that a legislative amendment will be made to the Parliament, which will give us the opportunity to implement this very important measure, with which I fully agree, that the cities will be able to implement it, and that the municipalities will be able to implement it. In order to do this, the decision adopted by you must be withdrawn, which withdraws the State price supplement, supports the organisation of local public transport, and then certain programmes on which Secretary of State Mosóczi also spoke in the debate the other day, should be supported with a regular source and a sufficient amount of resources; indeed, professionals and drivers who need to be trained. For years it has been a shortage profession, and it is seen in Budapest and in most rural cities that this is a huge problem. So there are certain tasks that the state, the government, must carry out, and then there are tasks that the municipalities must perform properly. And in this part, you now have a responsibility to ensure that you have not supported public transport, but that you have been subjected to restrictions. But she also spoke about accessibility and infrastructure in the countryside; we have not yet been able to come to terms with that. I have also said many times that again you are not talking about the facts, Mr President, I would like to say that there are currently 17 thousand kilometres of lower road networks in Hungary in the categories "bad" and "inappropriate" today. These are only public roads, so if we look at municipal roads, statistics on them are much, much worse, and this value would not fall every year, but increase because you spend too little money on the basic infrastructure of the countryside, on the renovation of the lower roads. This year, 50 billion forints will be provided in the program, which will be sufficient to renovate 450 kilometres. That was last year, too, but every year, the length of the road that goes wrong is much bigger. So the problem is getting bigger, more and more, so I cannot say this more clearly, and I have tried to do so with Mr Orbán Balázs, Secretary of State, everyone, and also Mr Mosóczi, to at least tell us when we can get to the point where, let's say, we can close the balance to zero, that every year there are so many roads that will be ruined, because now they are in a negative, massively negative situation, and over the years, this problem will be such that it will be very difficult to imagine how to solve this problem, because now there are plenty of rural roads that can no longer be refurbished, but need to be rebuilt practically from the road base. Where will these sources be? You can see, in part, that I have vowed that I will not now play Lőrinc Mészáros, but I must mention that while you spend 50 billion forints in one year to develop the lower roads within the framework of the Hungarian villages programme, only 80 billion for this year, 120 billion for the next year, and 1000 billion for the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line with interest, on which you have concluded the debate by not betraying national interests, encrypting the contracts, encrypting the underlying documents, and the Hungarian people cannot see for what reason you have adopted a decision with which this 1000 billion project could be launched and could otherwise be encrypted. You have spoken very correctly, Mrs President, I think, from the point of view of the topic, in any case, of the situation of the water utilities. Here you have already mentioned, Mrs Potocska, that there has indeed been some positive movement. However, not only since then, I have been a Member of Parliament since the spring of 2018, but I have also been dealing with this system problem as a municipal representative for a very long time. [[15.00]] There, at the meeting of the General Assembly in Pécs, Mayor Zsolt Páva could also say that he deeply agrees that this is a huge problem, and as a member of the Association of Cities with City Rights, all he can do is signal to the government, do something about the government in order not to go bankrupt or collapse the water supply. There may have been so much movement at the Economic Commission meeting that President Erik Bánki was a bit more comfortable and said that the problem really exists, perhaps the utility tax that we have been putting forward for years, I think I have submitted five times, it is unfair, it is really problematic. But why wait years for that? Why do you have to get to Alföldvíz Zrt. Your employees are protesting with the Prime Minister, and the company is practically on the verge of collapse? We can see that many other large utility companies are on the verge of collapsing. Why do we need to get to the point where Prime Minister recognises that the size is a thousand billion, but he no longer acknowledges the estimate of the County City Association that 3000 billion is missing beyond the existing resources to solve the most important public service, drinking water and sanitation, so maintenance and replacement work can be carried out. This is also a huge deficiency. Here, too, I would like to argue with the facts, call on the facts when we argue. In particular, the number of failures in water utilities has doubled since 2011 and the proportion of water systems with an appropriate rating is already below 20 per cent. Every year, the problem is growing, more and more resources are needed, but due to the utility tax and other government measures, there will be little resources available for maintenance, so there will be a growing need to replace full water systems. Not only can it cause health damage if these water quality problems that we see multiply, but it also causes a problem of such a nature that if the drainage is inadequate, the water bases will be damaged to such an extent and in such a way that it can never be repaired. Our most important national treasures, natural resources, are threatened by this ostrich policy that you are pursuing. So, overall, I can say that this bill, its spirit and its details are perfectly opposed to what is the basis for territorial development, the basis for development policy, that the local level must be enforced as much as possible, and those who, locally, have a real direct relationship and direct responsibility to the citizens who choose them, should be allowed to take a decision position. It is therefore totally unacceptable that, in addition to several other problems of the bill, Mayor István Bóka of Balatonfüred, the President of the Balaton Development Council, will now be placed under specific guardianship, despite the fact that he has, in principle, won a position as mayor in the colours of your party family. We will therefore, of course, vote against this bill. Thank you.
u2020-11-05-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-89	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa, I am asking you with sincere and deep concern that your problems with understanding the text have been or are new. 'Cause if it's new, get tested, it could be an organ problem. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is that the answer?]] No. That's my concern. I didn't say, Congressman Nacsa, that I didn't want the people on the shore of Lake Balaton to get development money. I said I didn't want the Balaton attached to his high road dacha. I do not want to see Mészáros and Tiborcz fill their pockets with these billions, because however strange it is for you, neither Hungary nor Lake Balaton are equal to Viktor Orbán and his dear family. Regional development does not mean that some, otherwise we should stay with your use of the word really privateized hotel, camping and any other luxury place on the shore of Lake Balaton with money, because it will not make you develop on Lake Balaton. It'll give your oligarchs a bigger pocket, and these two aren't the same. If you ask the people at Lake Balaton... I don't know, they asked the Balatonians if they wanted the Butchers to surround the Balaton. If you find a man I know, more than a dozen who are not certified to be fidesz, and you say that I would like to have different wire fences between my settlement and the shore of Lake Balaton, so that I can't go down there just for money through one of the Mészáros-kempinos to the shore of Lake Balaton, then I'll give you a shot. The problem, my fellow Member, is that you are not only struggling with a text understanding problem, but you are simply treating the Hungarians and the people who live there as idiots. I understand that it's very difficult to find an explanation otherwise, and that's why the personalization comes after him and the misunderstanding, the explanation of what we said. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] We didn't say that! Congressman, we didn't say that. We said we didn't want to do the same thing to the Balaton as we did to half the Danube. We want Balaton to be Balaton's and Balaton's development money to be used for things that need to be done. If the people on the shore of Lake Balaton were to benefit from this, and not the Butchers and not the Tiborcs, and we would not see Viktor Orbán making brilliant selfies, how well he and his grandchildren feel there. Because it belongs to ten million people on Lake Balaton. I have to add, it will be ten million people's, because you will disappear from here, on a fence, in Butchers, in Tiborczost, all of it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-90	Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, if you wish to take the floor. [[Zoltán Varga: No, thank you.]] All right, please take it back. Another two-minute speaker was Mr László Böröcz, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to Congressman Varga is always... a pleasure? I don't know. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] The truth is, this type of attitude, that you will disappear, you have no place here, you are not Democrats, we have heard that every time. I think they were yelling the same things in 2006 when the police were sent out to protestors. The truth is that we do not know anything about their ideas about rural development. Between 2002 and 2010, you didn't actually do anything other than invade the entire region. And it is simply a simple economic fact that developing the countryside, bringing in foreign capital investments, supporting Hungarian businesses, creating high-quality added value systems, resorts, hotels and apartments is, I think, a very good thing. With regard to free beaches, I would also like to say that there are dozens of free beaches on Lake Balaton today, more than in your period. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] So the teaching style that you allow yourself here from week to week, and with which you keep hitting this government, it might be nice to stop, and to have a little self-examination of what you and your leader did for eight years when you had the chance. 'Cause the truth is, if we compare the two performances and balance them, then the difference is yelling, and you guys have a reason to be ashamed. Thank you. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2020-11-05-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place within a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-05-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to comment because I thought it would be a professional debate, and it started that way with Mónika Bartos, but then, since Congressman Nacsa joined in, and when he did, I thought I would answer after all. Perhaps I would first like to answer Mr Böröcz's previous speech. You said it was a lecturer's style. That's what you're telling me after the last ten years, it's kind of weird. And when you tell me who's been disqualified, you think of László Fat's words that the only part of the nation who's fidesz is, right, I don't think that's what [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what he said!]] It could be thrown at anyone. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what he said! You're lying!]] What I am speaking about is that, you know, Congressman Nacsa, it is usually possible to argue, and I have asked Anita Kőrösiné Potocsány to do so. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Reverse! Your vice president!]] In order to express what he has to say in such a way that it is understandable to the debate partner. He tried to do this, but he couldn't get down to the low level so you could understand what he wanted to say. I kind of feel like I've had this before in the last cycle. Congressman Vas was always put in here, he was told what to say, and then he told me. With you, you have about the same feeling, not much to add professionally, but the more you try to say the demagogic sentences you've been described; I suppose these are the panels of communication experts. [[15.10]] You just don't think what you're saying is real. So I understand when you say that you are so anti-communist, I just can't understand why you think, dear Congressman Nacsa, that if you are so anti-communist, then how can you bear all those KIS Secretarys, all those MSZMP members with whom you are sitting in a faction at the moment. Shall I list the names? 'Cause if you want, I'll start to tell you who they are, but everyone knows it would be completely unnecessary to list them. Would you consider, when you put these speeches, how can you sit in a group with the people who served the MSZMP, who were SGS and the like? Then you should ask them the questions you usually ask here. You can also say here that so in 2006, about 2006. Congressman, I know you're a fresh Member, but you should be so aware of the events of the last few years that you've been ruling for ten years. Ten years! Then don't point back. You should have changed it. They've had ten years to use the money, the authority you've been given, to do good in this country, not to get rich with your own friends or friends. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Protecting your friends!]] That's what they were supposed to do. That's what you should say. You should be hitting the table at the factions, your factions, why we haven't changed this country properly. Don't point at me on the way back. You've been ruling for ten years. It should have been fixed in ten years. He says how bad Balaton broke down in 2006. Maybe he's right. Do you know what the important difference was between 2006 and 2020? Whatever condition Balaton was in, it was people's. We got to 2020 and you put a lot of money into it. Do you know whose money was put into it? The people, the citizens of taxes, were given public money to their friends, who had renovated ports and various hotels and camping sites, and then these friends began to keep pushing people off the shore of Lake Balaton. Well, that's not the best solution. It would have been a good solution if they actually started developing Lake Balaton with public money and then left it open to people, but you are trying to push Hungarian citizens out of Lake Balaton. They're building the luxury facilities for NER riders that only NER riders and Fidesz-KDNP politicians will be able to go to. People will watch the Lake Balaton from afar, because they are no longer able to reach the waterfront. It's the truth. The waterfront areas are yours, so not in 2006, you! It was taken from people between 2010 and 2020, and now it is on Lake Balaton where it is at the moment. They don't take people's safety into account. I mean, if you'd considered and understood why Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi took the hunger strike, you might not have had a negative impact on your point of view. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] You were supposed to be on that hunger strike. For if you cared about the safety of the people, the safety of the holiday homes would be important down at Lake Balaton, then you would have sat next to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi so that the weather service would not be able to build an apartment house next to the storm warning station, which would then endanger the safety of the people who are on holiday down at Lake Balaton. No, you didn't sit there, but you still blame him for trying to do something for people. That's the problem, Member. The problem is that you have pride, pompousness, and the fact that you think you can do everything in this country, you don't see the point. They don't see every day, they don't see every day's problems, and they don't care about people. You're not interested in people. The only thing you're interested in is grating, profiting, and if you're talking about robbery-privatization, it's the highest degree of robbery. That's what you're interested in. And you are the server of these people. So you can't distance yourself from these people, you can't say that you have nothing to do with these people. But you have something to do with these people, because with all of your speeches, all of your activities that you've been doing lately, which I'm not very good at. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's mutual!]] You're assisting with these things. He's helping me with these things. So what you're doing here every day in Parliament, the shady thing that you represent in this Parliament, I think it belongs to the darkest periods in Parliament. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Isn't it when you threaten State Secretarys? Isn't it?]] Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-05-94	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There was a question of where I was around 2002-2003-2004: with my children at home. I didn't think about politics at the time, and then I thought I could do it for the people by representing the interests of the Balatonians, Siófoks and the people in the region in the Hungarian Parliament. For this, yes, there are all kinds of tools. You can laugh at the hunger strike, but at least the filth you've been pushing down there near the observatory with the power of the Prime Minister himself... and it's in a government decree that you can't build within 60 meters of the observatory, only this investor just a month before this government decree came out, quickly submitted a building permit. So that's why it's possible to talk about who's who and how. I would also like to talk about the fact that Balaton belongs to everyone, which we are constantly saying to my opposition fellow Members, that Henrik Hoffmann, the president of the Balaton Tourism Association, is your great friend, once in July 2019, said that there are high-profile resorts everywhere in the world that less affluent guests cannot afford, and there are also places where the most attractive are on holiday. Here we are, in 2019 Henrik Hoffmann said, in Hungarian: the wealthier will become the Balaton. Well, that's what you need, the oligarchs are renovating these hotels, the campsites, and there will be apartment houses there, and then we'll see that those Hungarian families who may have to save years to spend a few days at Lake Balaton will have nowhere to go, because you think the Balaton is just the wealthiest. They've been ruling since 2010. Ten years! And then toss it back, why didn't they do that? We are used to this in Parliament's walls, that you are constantly pointing back to 2010. In yesterday's debate, my colleague Lajos Szűcs once said that it is not possible to compare the year 2010 and the year 20. Well, there are times when you can, sometimes you can't, and you can't, see that you can compare your ten-year-old governance on this subject again, which is practically zero. About Lake Balaton, and now back to the bill, because the Secretary of State is sitting here, not speaking, and I guess we'll get, in the closing word, that it's still perfect, so let's go back to the appointment of the co-chair of the Balaton Development Council. Whether you like it or not, we all know it, and you know it, it's a custody thing. And this can be embellished, and you can give evasive answers; you consider the Balaton to be a place for the privileged. That's where people live. My colleague, Mónika Bartos, told me that 270 thousand people live there. They want the Balaton the way it used to be, as the old summer memories tie them to the Lake Balaton. And you can still see how the coastguards were made under your administration. Well, the big zero, it doesn't. That's what we should be thinking about. That they raised the water level of Lake Balaton. Now, while the reconstruction of the Sió channel is going to be beautiful, right, I fully support it, but we should do something about keeping Fenyves from being flooded when it rises and the water yields are so. Because there are huge problems on the south coast. You have to live there, and you have to experience what happens after a bigger rain. The funds should be spent on these, because there are residential properties and holiday properties. But you don't do anything, you just point out that, yes, there will be a source. Well, maybe we shouldn't spend hundreds of billions on public media for government propaganda. You could turn this money over to Lake Balaton to finally be a place for everyone to go. That is why we are fighting, and we can make this go away, but we have to fight for it, and as opposition representatives, I will do everything I can, by any means necessary to achieve this goal, because indeed, Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.20]]
u2020-11-05-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'm very sad that this is the way this debate took place, or this is how this is going down, because I think that very, very many people who want to do something for the countryside, for raising the countryside, do not expect us to talk about such issues in Parliament, to joke about who loves him and how much they are friends with Ferenc Gyurcsány. Amazing, I really go to a lot of rural areas, and I often go to corps meetings of small settlements, obviously less often now, because because of the corona virus epidemic, especially in exceptional legal order, these will not happen very much, and I have seen an example in a tiny, very small, 120 enthusiastic settlement. The people who lived there threw millions of forints of their own money together, even though they were not wealthy people, they renovated the interior of the village church by working together on building materials. And it was so nice to see how the board meeting was divided and multiplied so that they could give a teeny bit of money to the local library's very, very poorly paid librarian so that they could make a little pay this year with a little reward. And these people, these communities, who are really struggling and working to make their own living space viable, they expect the debate to take place here in Parliament about a policy of development that gives us the opportunity not to put pennies together in these dwindling regions, and not only if the community joins together, puts together the money and adds the work together. This is amazing that Ferenc Gyurcsány's name is flying right and left here, who, if I remember correctly, has not been Prime Minister of this country since 2009. And it's shocking to me. I'm telling you, along with the fact that I don't get to criticize those times enough. I have indeed spoken in this debate to talk about this issue, rural development and policy issues. And I can't be accused of not submitting a million motions as a Member of Parliament. I have put forward a lot of proposals on transport policy, water policy, and without exception they have all been swept off the table. Why is that, Congressman Nacha? Why is it that if someone comes to work as a Member of Parliament with good intentions, he really has a career course, he tries to do something, he tries to make proposals, he doesn't give it to me, he even refers to policy discussions and convenes opposition factions, and they still wipe out constructive, professionally based proposals by a hundred percent? ! Why is that? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-98	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Böröcz, Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-05-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I promise I'll try to be brief. I didn't want to say it again, but Congresswoman... there's a fundamental ideological difference, it seems, in our way of thinking. [[Anita Kőrösi: Thank God!]] First of all, to say that there is no beach on Lake Balaton where people can go without paying, that is an obvious lie, and that the government would be preparing to close them. It's just that I've just looked at it quickly, there are 51 beaches per moment on Lake Balaton, where otherwise you don't have to pay. You can count from the lists on the Internet on the one hand. On the other hand, to cry back that it used to be so good, and that when they went to Lake Balaton, everyone felt so good; of course, I do not know what the congresswoman was crying back, but in socialism, obviously, there was a whole other world. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Cry back!]] There were state resorts, there could be a nice holiday there, for everyone at the same level, for everyone for the same reason, but there the coupletelite, of course, went to other types of resorts, the communist elite. I don't know if it's easy to slide from the far right to the far left and slip into this type of economic, pro-state thinking, but I don't recommend it. The country's economic performance will also be improved if there are obviously developments in Lake Balaton. Obviously, we keep and maintain the free beaches, we also develop them, this has happened in the last ten years for many beaches. Balaton municipalities can develop their own beaches, and there are also investments that increase added value, thus creating jobs, creating higher-paying jobs for people around Lake Balaton. That would be the concept. Instead, you are constantly saying, in some surreal way, that you cannot go to the Lake Balaton beach, that you are building the beaches of Balaton only for the elite, which is completely nonsense. And if this is communication and this is a debate culture, there's no need to argue about it.
u2020-11-05-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi in two minutes.
u2020-11-05-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Henrik Hoffmann, the Balaton Tourism Association, your bosom friend, has said that the privileged will have the Balaton. So we won't have to go there for those who can't do that. And I refuse, I never said there was no Balaton available. We want the places that are still there to remain. That's why we asked you not to have an apartment house next to the observatory. That is why we ask you to complete those developments around Lake Balaton and do not grant permission, because it is harmful to Lake Balaton. It's environmentally harmful! Oh, isn't that how the Environmental Authority and Natura 2000s aren't taken into account? I don't know why you're letting me do that. What I wanted to see in this amendment, which is being presented to us now, is that, for example, at Club Aliga, public parks and roads are left to fight for 30 years. But that's not what's in there! You're putting the president of the Balaton Development Council under guardianship.
u2020-11-05-102	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would not respond to Mr Szilágyi, because, on the one hand, his speech was not worthy, either in style or in content, simply enough to say insufficient. But it's his own problem. We are exactly the ones who have renovated the free beaches that you have been talking about, Congresswoman. It was this government who invested money on these free beaches and, by the way, on pay stands. By the way, we know a lot of Lake Balaton bike trips and promenades about a lot of investments that aren't a restricted area, or what you're visiting here, and you might think something about something here that isn't true, but if you look at the numbers, more and more people have been going to Lake Balaton in the last few years. And that's also because more and more people can afford it, because while in the Gyurcsány era the number of people who couldn't afford a one-week holiday a year... can laugh, Congresswoman, it was a tragic era during that period. With a smile, you will take care of the tragic era that took place in Hungary, that three times as many people could not afford a one-week holiday; and now we have reduced the number of it. We didn't make it to the end of the road, but we're moving in the right direction. And believe that every year more and more people go to Lake Balaton and look at the resources that come there, the free beaches, the bike roads, the promenades and the other different land developments that we consider important. Look at this, and not what your fellow Members whisper in your ear as a lie. [[Zoltán Varga: What you see!]] Thank you.
u2020-11-05-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. Congressman György Szilágyi asks for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-105	In a normal framework, because Jobbik cannot speak in two minutes at the moment, because my fellow Member has already spoken in the two-minute session. So I'll be brief, just a few things. Congressman Nacsa, who's speech was actually just shown. When you've been explained here, not only me, but others too, that you shouldn't be hitting the wheel after ten years of government, and then you get up and you're still playing the same game anyway. So it seems that there may be a problem, there may be problems with understanding the text, Mr. Congressman. The other important thing, which was still here, and I say only for the record, was that I began my speech without speaking, and I simply saw that a professional debate might arise: both my fellow Member and my fellow Member, Mónika Bartos, and Mrs Potocska, began to engage in a professional debate. Then you come along, you bring politics into it, and when someone answers that, you point out that they, they take it. No! You took it! With his unprofessional speech, this debate was entirely carried out by you. Even if he's showing off now, you're the one who took him. But we're used to you lying here all the time. I would like to ask Mr Böröcz, he said that there were party resorts in the cursed period. I guess you can name one or two, can't you? You think the current Club Aliga was a party resort? And now what? What do you think the Club League is gonna do now? What do you think will become of those ports? Those aren't party resorts, are those ports where the NER yachts are 80 percent, and no mortal man can enter that area? ! You think, by the way... Congressman Nacsa, go downstairs. Ask your fellow Members. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Not down! Not down! Over there!]] Ask your fellow Members, ask their fellow Members, if you want, by the way, I will draw up a list for you of whose yacht is in the port of Lake Balaton. By the way, the yachts of fellow Members who would not be able to afford this on the salary of their representatives are somehow able to buy yachts of 20-30 million and support them in these ports. [[15.30]] Congressman! Keep me posted. You guys stole this country, you guys are robbing this country, and right now, you're trying to take over the land where people can go on vacation. This is a shame, apart from the speeches you make in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-05-106	I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman László Keresztes. Here you go, in a normal time frame.
u2020-11-05-107	Thank you, Mr President, I promise it will be very short. I just have one question. There was an initiative, if I remember correctly, that Gergely Karácsony started a formational municipal alliance to hold a local referendum in as many places as possible so that a greater proportion of the funds from the European Union could be used at local level, i.e. at the level of municipal policy, and obviously this applies not only to opposition, but also to pro-government authorities. Obviously now there is an epidemiological situation, an extraordinary legal order, and the rest, so I see that the reality of this is not going to be a local referendum, and I'm not sure that would be a good idea. Let us hope that we can be freed from the effects of the epidemic as soon as possible and the restrictions can be lifted, but if, let us say, as many municipalities express their desire for such a fundamental change in the organisation of development policy, would you be open to this? So just to translate, for example, if there are more and more Fidesz local government leaders already, such voices would say that they would like to have more say in development policy and that they would like to launch legislation to ensure that municipalities have resources for development on the one hand, and for public services on the other hand that they have a fundamental responsibility for providing them, they will receive the appropriate resources from the State. Have you been open to these voices, where appropriate, say, only those mayors who are pro-government and express these problems in the same way? Thank you.
u2020-11-05-108	Thank you. There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-109	Thank you. Mr President, I promise to be brief, and I do not wish to speak any more, but I would like to correct this deliberate small-scale slide by the Congresswoman, which she has just done here. Frankly, I've been going to Lake Balaton since I was a kid, but with Henrik Hoffmann, whom you quoted, I've never been in the picture with him before, but now I've looked into it, and after about two minutes of searching, I found what he said, and he didn't say what the congresswoman said, but he talked about how, by the way, paid beaches have received billions of forints, and this year, free beaches have the same amount of money. And he also talked about the fact that, in fact, the development needs to be adapted to the tourists' wallets, because the 200-kilometer section of Lake Balaton has to be developed to meet the needs of the more affluent guests, and that there are also free beaches and places that obviously satisfy the needs of the less affluent population. The slip that you just let yourself do here, what Henrik Hoffmann said, and that the fidesz, I don't know, dude, said that the whole Balaton was only for the rich, that Fidesz wanted to close it. Congresswoman, if you would like to do something for these settlements and you have any idea what development directions you need to go to, then let's talk about it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-110	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc in two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-111	I didn't want to comment anymore, just one sentence. It is quite clear what György Szilágyi thinks of the people of the country when he says that you should go down there and not tell him to go there. That is the difference between us, Congressman, that you are exactly the same with the people of the country, you despise them.
u2020-11-05-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi in two minutes.
u2020-11-05-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Henrik Hoffmann said in July 2019 what I read from here. So, I'm sorry, but this was going through the national press about how Henry Hoffmann looked down on the poor people and what you were planning on doing at Lake Balaton. So you shouldn't make this look like a lie. [[László Böröcz: It is!]] No! [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] Fellow Members, no! This was a clear message to the Hungarian people as to what your purpose is at Lake Balaton. And, by the way, although the debate is really going on, it also shows a little bit of your government that Balaton Shipping Co. was beaten up during the emergency. That's where we're at now, with 11 sailing ports being transferred to our friends. And selling real estate and ports. This was done during an emergency. This is your government, by the way, the Balaton Shipping Company. could have been saved, and the Balaton sailors could have done something for the Balaton cruise. No one here, on the opposition side, said that there was no need for improvements. Yes, you can. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] No! No one said that, so let's not do this. Well, we've been sitting here for how many hours now. Everyone thinks it is important to have improvements, only when you say so in the explanatory statement, I will read it once again because I will not come to the agenda that the reason why we need to be co-chaired in the Balaton Development Council is because it will ensure the proper use of budgetary funds. Well, that's what you'd have to answer for if it wasn't right. Thank you.
u2020-11-05-114	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] If not, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-05-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, It has been a good experience, I don't know what time it is, from the point of view that a bill, which actually had the content of a personal question, becomes a political debate day and how we talk about everything that is absolutely not part of this proposal. Of course, there can be perceived and real grievances, there can be a lot to talk about, including the last 30 years, and many things that, of course, can safely be said in connection with another bill. Of course, in the context of this bill, everything can also be said, from insults to untruths, until various facts are presented in a false light, and until such time as a proposal to bring a personal change to Parliament in relation to a development council is pre-visiting things that appear in your imagination, and how this will be in reality, probably has nothing to do with that. Of course, conclusions can be drawn, but in this case, in the context of a parliamentary debate, if we have already turned an agenda into a political debate day, then, of course, freedom will open up and everything can be said, political grievances, any criticisms of the opposition that continue to be heard against the government for years and accusations that are made. For you, in fact, as I have been looking at it over the past period, and I am trying to deal fully with policy, but nevertheless, I see that you have only one platform of attack left, since there is not much real message for the Hungarian people on the opposition side. There is one: people need to be pissed off, against any kind of investment that can be made in a color that they hope will cause public uproar that will help them in a better position in the elections. That is not what this proposal is about. This proposal concerns the fact that the Minister responsible for supporting the development of government strategies in the Balaton Development Council does not currently have a representative. Once again, there is no representative of the Minister responsible for supporting the development of government strategies. This proposal is about how it should be. Ministers leading operational programmes, who have operational programmes in the ministries, are all members of these councils, but overall, in our opinion, the minister responsible for developing government strategies should also be there, since we have not heard any objections from any other member. Here, too, the Balaton Development Council was mainly set up, in terms of planning to introduce a co-chairman's office here, either this bill or the government. [[15.40]] From the sentence that Congresswoman Kotocsáné Kőrösi Anita has said at least four times what has happened here with the money, because it follows from that sentence that it has not been used properly, I will read something completely different, but I will no doubt admit that it can be read as you have done and that interpretation can be given to her. So, either you look into the past and you say that this sentence is a criticism to the past, or you say that this development council will make very serious improvements in the coming time, there will be serious resources here, and the government will provide this money. Even if it is possible to put this sentence in a better context, I do not dispute it, it is not the message you have said. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: This is what they wrote down!]] He said eight or ten times that the current President, István Bóka, would be placed under guardianship, there is no such intention at all. And putting you under guardianship is not about what you just said here in Parliament, but about what will happen in the development council in the coming months. The Development Council will establish its rules of operation according to the Parliament's decision. For example, several issues have been raised here in relation to the fact that there are three key development councils, which are established ex lege, but why the other two do not have co-chairs. It is not because it is the largest development council, which includes more than 180 settlements, and here the government saw the need to introduce this institution. Of course, on the basis of your proposal, it will be possible to decide, until the vote, that this idea will be bought and that you may also be co-chaired by the other councils. Of course, the debates are not because, although they are not the ultimate result of fundamentally changing proposals, but what will happen, God only knows [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: Well, that's it!]] We'll see about the final vote. I would like to mention one thing, however, because you have talked about it a lot. Maybe I shouldn't do it, but I will, because the debate has turned in a lot of directions, including the professional issues involved. I always enjoy listening to the comments of Mr László László Keresztes, because I know that he will usually say a sentence that is absolutely correct within a few minutes, I will always wait for them, and they will come in, but then there will also be contexts that naturally have to be heard in the Hungarian Parliament from the mouth of an opposition representative. You guys are talking like you're not in the country. Let's go all the way to Hungary. Go to the villages, go to the cities. What order there is in the settlements! I am not saying that there are not many areas to develop here, whether the utility, built environment or anything else, but today Hungary looks quite different than it did ten years ago. Anyone who says that this is not the case does not live in this country; there is a huge change. Of course, you expect something else, you're not on the government. In many areas of development, family policy and many other areas, the government is implementing programmes in employment policy that obviously cost a lot of money, but happen for people. All 23 county-righted cities are part of the Modern Cities programme, with more than HUF 4000 billion in development. Half of them are no longer pro-government, they are opposition leaders, they have decided on what they want to develop in the city. This means 270 projects or more in Hungary. Here we have the program of modern villages, CSOK, family support, baby shower, we could talk about a lot of things, but of course you do not support them, because they have a different vision, they would control this country differently. Now the policy of this government is about family, nation, development, the development of the built environment, and the better living of families in Hungary. These may be fundamental philosophical debates, but within the framework of such a proposal, they cannot be discussed, they overwhelm the framework. It could take 20 hours or 20 days to discuss all these matters in substance and understanding without insulting each other to the ground either in their abilities or in their qualities, which is certainly not right, especially within the walls of this House. There is only one thing I would like to respond to, and this is the question of the observatory of Siófok, because, to my knowledge, Anita Potocsány Kőrösi was the deputy mayor of the local government of Siófok. For many years this issue has been before the Siófok board, the incorporation of this property. You shouldn't have done anything else, the mayor, the head architect, the municipality overall shouldn't have contributed to this investment three times. [[Anita Kőrösi: Who gave the permission? The government office! The president's ringing the bell.]] I have the floor, I understand, Your Honour. Of course, that could be an argument, but if you said in the municipal opinion that you didn't, there wouldn't have been any authorisation procedure, because you should have rejected everything, but that's not what you said. Allowed by the municipality of Siófok, then when the soil became warm, you were able to start a 10-hour hunger strike [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: 48!]] They went after him with the mayor, whose words ring in my ears, because I looked through the Internet, who said it was legitimate here, there, that this investment should not be made. So you are now asking the Hungarian Government to withdraw a legally issued building permit in some way, while the local government, who could have done everything, could have made the entire investment impossible by a pen stroke. There is a party in the proceedings who has not brought legal proceedings, even though the Hungarian administrative decisions can be challenged before a court, and obviously the judicial decision is, I sincerely hope, ultimately, for everyone, even if it is unpleasant, but acceptable, only to do so, the court proceedings would not be opened. It was the Hungarian government, who quoted you at the time, who, on the basis of the first signs, changed the law by maintaining a 60-metre protection distance, so that it took public law steps to ensure that this investment was not built there. However, I do not think it is as you said, but I am not in a position to argue about this, not weeks before, but long before, the request for a building permit has been submitted, and according to Hungarian law, it is the case that the legislation in force at the time of submission must be followed. You are now asking why we are not going against this, why we are not going against a case in which everything is legal, but as a last and final rescue, it is finally possible to point out to the Hungarian government that, well, here is a case that we are not going to solve, which you could have solved several times. But they're not doing it by taking on their own responsibility to inform the public properly, they're saying that everyone here is to blame, but you are not. You are the champions of justice, for the people; if you were, you wouldn't have done that. This was a concrete case, and there are a number of these, on which, of course, discussions could continue, but I do not see any point. After all, it is nothing more than I said: it is the delegation of members to two development councils and the establishment of a co-chair function. Amendments may, of course, be tabled, as you will do, and in the coming days, during the committee debates and then in the detailed debate, in the final vote, we will see how this law will turn out. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-116	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. Government referral T/13474. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-117	Thank you very much for the proper preparation time. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Action against the effects of the coronal virus epidemic, the start of the new EU development policy period starting in 2021, makes it once again timely for the government to ensure effective and transparent investment in order to boost the economy by amending public procurement rules. [[15.50]] Public procurement legislation is a key sector of the economy, since the public sector's investments, supplies and services through public procurement have in recent years accounted for almost 7 percent of domestic GDP. The bill before us therefore introduces a number of measures to simplify and speed up procedures, make the bidding process easier and predictable for market participants and facilitate investment. However, economic protection is not the only aspect of the bill before us. Several amendments aim to reduce the administrative burden on the contracting authority's side and to facilitate the enforcement of the law by the contracting authorities. In addition to the above, the proposal also covers the adoption of recent case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union relating to public procurement. By clarifying certain rules, we would like to ensure that domestic legislation adequately follows the development of EU law on public procurement. Dear House, The proposal facilitates the participation of economic operators, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, in public procurement. For example, for works covering a performance period of more than two months, the amount of the unconditional advance to be granted is increased from HUF 75 million to HUF 250 million. Consequently, the use of an advance of at least 5 per cent for businesses is guaranteed up to HUF 5 billion in contractual value instead of the current HUF 1.7 billion, without the provision of a mandatory guarantee. Our aim is to ensure that these domestic businesses, small domestic businesses, are able to participate in the system while respecting the principle of equal opportunities, so that funding difficulties do not hinder their access to procedures. The faster conduct of the procedures and the more predictable bidding system for tenderers are the changes that place the critical phase of the procurement procedures within more stringent time limits than so far. As a result of the proposed amendment, the duration of the tender commitment beyond a specified deadline may be extended to 90 or 120 days only in such a way that the maintenance of the tender guarantee cannot be expected from the tenderer and frees them from a financial burden. On the other hand, contracting authorities are encouraged to complete the criticism more quickly. Well, this, the criticism of the tenders, may exceed the 180-day period only if the tenderer submitting the most favourable bid continues to maintain this offer. We would therefore propose that, in cases where the prolongation of the procedure would adversely affect the initial conditions of competition and the most favourable bidder does not maintain the tender, we should also make it compulsory to open a new procurement procedure. Of the many procedural amendments proposed by the bill for simplification, I would perhaps like to give the following examples here in my Expose, because in this context we can say that we are looking for significant results. In the future, the contracting authority will no longer have to verify the lack of grounds for exclusion and the electronic databases demonstrating compliance with the eligibility criteria for each participant when submitting the tender, but it will be sufficient to do so only in respect of the winner. The procurement procedure will not require a declaration of future provision of contractual safeguards. With regard to the tender guarantee, the proposal allows for a certain number of gaps and contributes to a higher number of valid offers. This is also an important goal of increasing the number of valid offers. When purchasing on the basis of multi-player framework agreements, the duration of the criticism is reduced by the fact that the contracting authority may also examine the validity of not all but only the most favourable tender, in relation to the logic of the previous amendment. In the future, the contracting authority will be given the discretion to consider it necessary to impose the eligibility requirement for national procedures. This amendment intends to introduce, in the national procedure, the facilitation that the contracting authority should only verify the available databases for the successful tenderer. An important tool to reduce administrative burdens is to make the best use of e-procurement opportunities. We would also take further steps in this direction with regard to the bill before us. According to this, the data sheets for the performance of the contract should be uploaded with one gate data, only in the EKR, in the electronic procurement system, instead of the current so-called double entry. The Public Procurement Authority and the GVH will record the records necessary to verify compliance with the requirements of the EKR for reasons of exclusion and suitability. With this amendment, it will be possible for the EKR to be able to automatically display the information necessary for the criticism of the offer, not to be collected separately, so this constitutes a significant reduction in the burden. We believe that the new draft or proposal that public procurement from European Union funds will not be subject to the Public Procurement Act 115 would lead to a significant change in the number of works. The procedure set out in Section 2 of this Article shall be open without public publication. Therefore, for public procurement from EU sources, this option would not be possible. This, we believe, significantly reduces the risk of possible financial corrections in the use of EU funds. It also brings an end to bad practices related to the breakdown of certain contracts into lots and contributes to the proper and transparent conduct of works of less value by increasing transparency. Finally, I would like to point out that, if you allow me, several elements of the bill can be understood in the context of the development of EU law. The change in grounds of exclusion is an essential element of these points, which translates the new practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union, compliance with the principle of proportionality in Union law, through the rules of the Public Procurement Act. We hope that this will give us the opportunity to close some of our disputes with the European Union or with the European Union. Overall, I can tell you that, in this amendment to the Public Procurement Act, we want to help the enforcement of the law by rules that will help ensure that investments are carried out as quickly as possible, and that public procurement procedures are simplified, administrative obligations are alleviated and legal guarantees for transparent public spending are strengthened. I would therefore like to ask you all to support this bill, and if there is a question or a question about the proposal, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-05-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Parliament passed a law on public procurement in order to ensure transparency and public control of the efficient use of public funds and to create conditions for fair competition in public procurement in order to promote the involvement of local small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement procedures, as well as the environmental protection and social objectives of the state. It also implemented, inter alia, the transposition of the EU directives adopted in 2014, into domestic law. During the application of the law in recent years, there has been a need to bring the rules laid down by law into line with the practice of applying the law and the practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Dear House, The objective of the proposed amendment is, as the Secretary of State has explained in detail, that the Kbt has gained experience in applying the public procurement acquis. present the existing legal provisions in its rules and bring them into line with the recent case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the field of public procurement. [[16.00]] The bill also expresses the government's efforts to cut red tape, simplify and speed up procedures, as it also serves to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus pandemic by ensuring easier participation of economic operators in public procurement procedures, in line with economic protection government measures. One of the main reasons for preparing the bill is the need to reduce administrative burdens and speed up public procurement procedures. Another important aspect was to reduce the burden on businesses in order to facilitate the recovery from the economic crisis as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, I would like to highlight some of the amendments drawn up on the basis of enforcement feedback. Raising the mandatory advance rate from 75 million to 250 million HUF will help these companies. Clarification of the rules of ex ante market consultations is obviously helping to better prepare investments. The possibility to provide access to documents by electronic means, to maximise the duration of the contract commitment to prevent excessive delays in procedures, is obviously a more predictable offer for businesses. Ensuring a wider shortage of tender guarantees and more flexible treatment of inconsistencies between offers and certificates in order to reduce the number of invalid offers, thus increasing competition. The 2015 CXLIII on public procurement One of the main objectives of the amendment to the Act is to reduce the administrative burden on contracting entities and tenderers, which can be achieved primarily through the following measures. An electronic database demonstrating the absence of grounds for exclusion and the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria should no longer be consulted by the contracting authority in respect of all economic operators at the time when the tender is submitted, but it is sufficient to do so only in respect of the tenderer to be announced as the winner. A further simplification is that some information currently available from separate databases will be monitored in the electronic procurement system in the future. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill contains forward-looking provisions, which is why I ask my fellow Members with respect to support the proposal, like the Fidesz fraction.
u2020-11-05-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Public Procurement Act aimed at transparency, the spending of public funds and, in other words, the use of wealth by companies in matters defined by law. In this proposal, in this bill, you refer to simplification, and I fully agree with that. In every debate, I say that the aim of simplification, reduction of administrative burden, reduction of bureaucracy is always something good. But it could be tightened up. In recent years, we have seen in the field of public procurement that there are companies that have a top priority in public investment, in public procurement. I am very, very happy when we reach the desired goal that you have just formulated, so that there will be fewer invalid offers and more competition. The point of public procurement is precisely that there is competition and that is determined by the market. If we can make it easier to access information through an electronic procurement system, this is an idea to support. By the way, I fully agree with the proposal to help entrepreneurs to increase the advance from 75 million to more than three times that, i.e. 250 million forints, because this is indeed the goal of competitiveness. But we've always got this, but, you know, when we talk about how the state's investments are always won by the same circle. Yeah. Because they're talented? Or what do they say? And they're very good entrepreneurs? And they're the most professional? Yeah, they've just pushed everyone out of these markets. This is what we should be talking about when we talk about transparency, so that everyone has the opportunity. However, businesses have been inflated to such a level that small and medium-sized enterprises, which my fellow Member Böröcz mentioned, should indeed be given the opportunity to play ball with these investments, so they can't do that. It is possible to cut red tape, but it would not have to be allowed to make the big ones even bigger. As we can see, in the case of large public investments, we can practically count on one hand the entrepreneurs who can be the winners of this. I agree that the deadline for the commitment to bid is indeed being maximised in the procedures. This is very important for entrepreneurs to be able to count on how long the contract commitment should be maintained. So the objectives of the current bill are fundamentally agreed. I am still curious in this debate about the small hidden bombs that my opposition colleagues have found in this legislation, because we know you that there is always a half sentence in it, which then kicks the whole system. So we obviously agree with transparency and the efficient and legal spending of public funds. On how the Jobbik Group will decide to adopt this legislation, we will develop our position later. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-11-05-122	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-11-05-123	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the legislative proposal before us, I think it is important to highlight the date on which it was submitted and the objectives it sets, the rules for achieving the objectives of this bill. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: This is an amendment to the law, which means that almost five years ago, the comprehensive regulation of the procurement process, which has a long history, was established. Allow me to say that, for example, I believe that in 1994-95 a directive, a guideline, tried to correct the process of public procurement. This was the heroic era, then we realized, then the then government, then political leadership realized that this issue, i.e. the regulated system of spending public money, had to be addressed after the collapse of the party state, because on the one hand this ensures the transparent use of public funds and ensures professionalism that procurements create a competition that enables contracting authorities to obtain high-quality services as a result of competition. In addition to competition, it was also important for this procurement process to have a market-enhancing effect. The new law of 2015 sought to lay down rules that ensure what makes a public procurement procedure good. It is primarily because it ensures transparency, results in speed, efficiency and high quality services. Of course, the chain of EU standards in this context has been several of these standards in recent years at the level of the directive on how to conduct public procurement as a Member State of the European Union. [[16.10]] It can be said that the timing is important because it has become apparent that, due to the effects of the corona virus epidemic on the economy, the number of public procurement procedures decreased by the quarter, while the value of the procedures decreased by five over the past period, which clearly had the reason that our economic activity was either shut down or at least severely reduced, and that the primary priority for public procurement organisations was not to carry out investments and public procurement, but to obtain adequate merit in defence itself, and to protect not only the economy, but also the lives and safety of citizens. This is also a reason and explanation why this double-purpose bill should be submitted now, which, as I said, proposes simplification, efficiency and streamline to the Parliament, and, on the other hand, because the legislative proposals also need to establish the conformity of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I also very much welcome the above-mentioned objectives of the bill, the reduction of bureaucracy and the reduction of administrative burdens. By doing so, I see the security being achieved, or what I see as being aimed at is that, for example, for electronic databases demonstrating the lack of grounds for refusal and the fulfilment of eligibility criteria, contracting authorities do not need to collect information from an information base with a ban, but similarly, such as in public administrations, it is possible to obtain the necessary information from the database at their disposal, even if not directly from the official database where the case began, such as the land register or other, say, public health records. I believe that the monitoring of the data in the electronic procurement system created will be a great relief for contracting authorities and will speed up the development of tenders and will be less burdensome for those who bid. I also consider it important that, when applying the tendering safeguards, it allows for the correction of the deficit, which remedys the fact that it cannot be excluded from the procedure for no reason, or for reasons closely related to the purpose of public procurement. This will continue to ensure that there will be fewer and fewer single offer or limited tender procedures. I believe that this measure will help to promote competition and its effectiveness, and I think it is important right now, with regard to the Covid epidemic, that procurement related to the prevention and eradication of human epidemics will be excluded from the public procurement obligation, so that smaller purchases, such as the purchase of masks for workers, can be made easier by contracting authorities. Overall, it can be seen that the proposal is also capable of providing legal certainty, because there is also a regulation in place to encourage a more rapid assessment of offers. This is because it is often the case that the award of tenders is delayed, and thus that individual tenderers cannot be required to take a position in the market above economic rationality and that this does not entail the need for a subsequent amendment of the contract and will make it more predictable to carry out the procedures. Overall, I can add that clarification of the rules for prior market consultations is a very important element. A lot of people miss it, or I hope not a lot, but a lot of people are missing out on why this rule is important. Because this regulation strengthens the position of contracting entities and tenderers at the same time, it is appropriate to act as a pre-filter for a selection criterion that ensures that technical and other performance matters are clarified at the same time, the contracting authority should be aware of the technical, financial or other human aspects of the tender, and therefore the tenderers and the tenderers are aware of the conditions under which they can participate effectively in the procedure, which, with good preparation, means that tenders will be equivalent and that there will be less opportunity to apply the ex post clarification question, which will, of course, facilitate the speed of the procedure, which is one of the fundamental reasons why, was one of the reasons why this bill was drafted. Overall, I can say that the Christian Democratic People's Party can say that the proposed proposal will also be able to serve the objectives set out in detail, and that, therefore, the transparency, dynamism, clarity and simplification of public procurement will occur, we will support the presentation in the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-05-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The proposal seeks to transpose the practice of EU law and the Court of Justice of the European Union into the Hungarian legal system on a number of points. The primary reason for this is that the current Hungarian public procurement rules do not comply with the practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the area of proportionality. According to the reasons for the proposal, this problem can be eliminated by entrusting the contracting authorities with the decision to exclude the tenderer from the procurement procedure because of an earlier error. This could basically be a good direction, but there are several problems with the transposition of judicial decisions. On the one hand, the proposal lacks a system of consideration. This gives contracting authorities a relatively free way of considering specific cases. The reasons for the proposal do not include a sufficiently detailed description of what and how contracting authorities should consider in the case in question. In view of the fact that such consideration is possible in cases where no remedy has taken place in the previous case, it is feared that the exclusion obligation will be missing in cases where the previous infringement was clearly identified and this could constitute a significant risk of corruption. In the case of a new practice, it is always beneficial to issue a central recommendation to address the situation in order to prevent illegal practices. On the other hand, in particular on the basis of what has been said above, it is expressly wrong that one of these areas on which the proposal intends to allow consideration is the case in which the tenderer has attempted to unduly influence the contracting authority's decision-making process in an earlier procedure, or has attempted to obtain confidence information which would confer an undue advantage on the contracting authority in the procurement procedures. In the cases listed above, where there is no appeal procedure, the tenderer may decide whether or not to exclude the tenderer concerned. This is an extremely significant risk of corruption, since it would also be possible to consider cases where the attempt to influence the decision was clearly established. The only condition for this is that the tenderer who wanted to influence the procedure should not seek redress after its exclusion. A similar problem arises from the tender side as regards the appropriateness of the exclusion, since the proposal allows the contracting authority to exclude tenderers from the procurement procedure if certain circumstances can be adequately demonstrated by the contracting authority. These include environmental, social and labour law requirements and serious violations of professional and ethical obligations. There is not necessarily a problem with cases here, it has been included in the public procurement law so far, and it is obviously important that these requirements are met by the tenderers. [[16.20]] The problem is that, in the future, the contracting authority may also establish a breach of these requirements, even if it has sufficient evidence to do so. What exactly constitutes appropriate evidence is unclear. The reasons make it clear that the decision of the authorities and the court is in any event considered to be sufficient evidence, with one exception. Thus, the problem is not that the proposal expands the range of excluded companies, but that it does not provide appropriate guidance to contracting authorities and tenderers on exactly what can be accepted as appropriate evidence. This may also be a problem if a new practice is introduced. However, this wide scope of discretion is not unlimited, and it is not without regard to the consideration of judicial and administrative decisions. The proposal precludes taking into account judicial and administrative decisions against organisations that have undergone a self-cleaning process. It can therefore be said that the contracting authority can consider everything except this one case. As I indicated during the debate of the Public Procurement Act in 2015, it can also be said that the new Public Procurement Act provides an opportunity to exclude someone easily and to remove an excluded person, whether on a subjective basis. I also pointed out then that the main concern, however, in our view, is that the application of the contested provision may, where appropriate, overwrite a final decision by an authority or court, which is clearly in breach of the principle of legal certainty. Now such a legal institution, which is much criticised by the MSZP, will rule out one aspect of the evidence that can be considered, the aspect that carries the most certainty. This, as I indicated in the original debate on the Public Procurement Act, is a very backwards and is extremely worrying in the way that this proposal is intended to apply, fundamentally violating the principles of the rule of law. Overall, it can be said that although the proper transposition of EU law is clearly an obligation for the Hungarian State, but the solutions chosen by the government are clearly questionable, they pose a number of risks. Another extremely significant problem of the proposal relates to the negotiated procedure based on urgency, without notice. In November 2018, it was included in the Public Procurement Act on the Government's proposal that no framework agreement could be concluded in the urgent procedure. This was justified by the Government's failure to comply with the conditions of the negotiated procedure without notice based on extreme urgency, since it is typically a means of satisfying a procurement claim for which the contracting authority does not know in advance the exact conditions and circumstances of the procurement, which is incompatible with a precisely identifiable procurement need due to force majeure, which requires an immediate response on the part of the contracting authority. However, in the present proposal, we are faced with the Government's view that the procedure and the conclusion of the Framework Agreement are compatible. What is the cause of the turnaround, the proposal does not mention, so it is not possible to know why the government has changed its mind less than two years after applying the legislation. In addition, the justification for this proposal indicates that this amendment provides for, inter alia, the possibility to conduct purchases due to the current epidemic. This section of the justification of the proposal is interesting because the proposal promotes the use of the urgency procedure in cases of force majeure for which the government considered the specific provision to be inappropriate in 2018. This means either that the Government was wrong in 2018 and accepted an inadequately prepared amendment to the Public Procurement Act, or that this provision of the present proposal does not actually have anything to do with the control of the epidemic. Overall, although the proposal could be supported in principle, it contains a number of concrete solutions which greatly increase the risk of corruption, and such a proposal cannot be supported in a rule of law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-05-126	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-05-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I don't know, they read the news. Today's sensation, obviously outside the finish of the US presidential elections, is that Brussels is satisfied with corruption in Hungary and the rule of law. We all know why I brought this news here. We know that very well, or at least I would like it, and I would be very, very happy if we could talk about law in the debate on a public procurement law, professionalism. Only one big problem is that public procurement in Orbán Hungary is more of a criminal category than a legal category. But if we go down to the average people's level, we go into the big market in Debrecen, for example, and we ask the kofas there, what's the first thing that comes to their mind about public procurement, the one who thinks less sophisticatedly, says the theft. Anyone who follows today's Hungarian reality even a little is saying that it is a constitutional cost. But no one would think of what should be remembered is that public procurement is in fact a good way to allocate European Union or state resources to the best possible place with the best possible efficiency. For us, public procurement means something else. It's obviously related to how the Prime Minister put it? That we are a half-Asian, with enough virtuosity, and the ingenious Hungarian realized that public procurement is good for something else. What is truly dramatic is that these ingenious Hungarians are now largely buzzing, making noises near the government, and even reaching the Prime Minister. The biggest problem now is that this virtuosity is basically an opportunity for many politicians or people close to politics, which means the possibility of sudden and unbelievable great enrichment. They remember the original sin from 2005 in Tokaj, when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gently said that Szárhegy Dűlő-Sárázsadány-Tokajhegyalja Kft. At one of his meetings, whose wife was part owner, so that we wouldn't win as much as we asked, we wouldn't get the most. That's how it was, and that's 41 million forints. How happy we would be if we had to humming about the fate of 41 million forints here, that, my God, 41 million forints were won in some kind of public procurement, which was probably controlled or at least influenced to some level. Where is it? I'm going to list a few names now, I don't know what you're going to have in common: Lajos Simicska, Lőrinc Mészáros, György Simonka, Roland Mengyi, István Happy. What do you have in common? For an average Hungarian, the common multiple is that if these people started a competition, they won, but in many cases even if they didn't start. Any public procurement! Obviously, Lajos Simicska is coming down from this, because we know very well that he had a faith dispute with the Prime Minister, but everyone else, from Simonka to Lőrinc Mészáros, when he started a competition, won there. They are now taking down the Hungarian public procurement market, from 0 to 24. Allow me, although I know that it is either theoretically or officially unrelated to today's bill, that we should talk a little bit about this wonderful comet-like enrichment, Lőrinc Mészáros. The villager, perhaps even at the beginning, who had the only merit of being a friend of the Prime Minister, or still is. Lőrinc Mészáros's small family company is still losing money in 2007 and is almost bankrupt. From 2010, after Fidesz came to power, however, it will be tagged. Between 2010-19, I will now give you an incredibly large number, please hold on to the amount of public procurement won by Mészáros' companies for HUF 800 billion. [[16.30]] So for the small Szaki Szaki Felcsúti who was tinkering with gas burner bags in 2007, from 2010 to 2019 he ran over 800 billion forints in public procurement. But if we add the other oligarch near the Prime Minister, László Szíyi and his companies, then they took a public procurement of HUF 2071 billion together with Mészáros. By 2020, Lőrinc Mészáros will practically rule half the country. He is Hungary's biggest employer. National media companies, energy, banking, services, brokerage companies, catering, tourism, can be classified as having everything in ten years. We're talking 450 companies. Not taking credit for Lőrinc Mészáros, I wonder if we could ask him which company he owns, he would know it or not. And here it is, it has been mentioned several times today, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Here we are talking about another HUF 610 billion for the complete planning and execution of the Hungarian phase. And then we have this proposal before us, this bill, and somehow the task would be to try to look at it strictly professionally, but we can't. We can't, because at the moment we see that 90 percent of Hungarian public procurement is won by people or people or narrow interest groups to whom politics points out. And if he takes his hand off, see Simicska, he's gonna fail in about six months, disappear, end up selling his companies. Interestingly, it's going to be bought by the people who are going to kill. It's going to be very cynical, what I'm about to say, one of my friends said, "The poor thing is getting married," and she said that the reason they're not having a wedding dance is because she's afraid that if the best man sluts out, that the bride, which she's gonna notice, is gonna buy her. Of course, it is possible to say how it comes to this, but this is how the Hungarian people are now in relation to public procurement. That is the opinion of the average in Debrecen, the marketer, when we talk about public procurement. And we know very well how short these ten years are, and in ten years this once decent little gasman has accumulated such wealth, in principle his own property, but we know very well what we are talking about, that we are talking about today not only the richest Hungarian, but also a significant factor in the world. Please, he's three times as rich as Ronaldo and twice as rich as the Queen of England. And the problem is that public procurement goes hand in hand with corruption in Hungary, this is undisputed, and it is to such a extent true that the former president of the Századvég Foundation, András Lánczi, even when he was asked as president of the Századvég Foundation what it was about, he said that what is called corruption is practically the main policy of Fidesz. And if we add to this that the declared desire of the Prime Minister is to create the national capital class, and this national capital class is now established and functioning, but the set of national capital classes is somehow the same as the direct family of the Prime Minister and his immediate circle of friends, and if we even consider that and these people will otherwise gain the benefit of public procurement, then it is very easy to imagine what public procurement means in Hungary. Of course, I could talk about what the profession says about it for a long time, what analysts say about it. That, in fact, every analysis and research shows that Hungary is in a tragic situation when we talk about public procurement. The rules that are highly restrictive to the public and thus conducive to corruption remain in force in the Public Procurement Act, which clearly help to make this narrow, well-defined, limited sphere of interest ever richer. For example, here is the Corruption Research Centre, which has shown in its investigation in Budapest that after the 2010 government change, companies that often did not start up in previous public procurements were able to become dominant players, but based on the research it can also be shown that since 2010 there have been no doubt that fewer people have entered a particular tender than before, i.e. there is much less competition to win state money. There are more limited public announcements, for example, whenever invited, or when it is unrealisticly short to write a tender. There is a much higher corruption risk index for all applications for a given year, i.e. the proportion of procurement awarded under suspicious circumstances. In the research, public procurements where at least one of the four key issues on the Public Procurement Authority's website could not be answered were classified as data gaps. These are the four questions: who wrote the tender? Who won it? How much did the acquisition cost? How many candidates were there? The above information would in principle be mandatory, but this was not achieved in 20% of public procurement in the best documented years. The proportion of data-deficit contracts is important here, otherwise the rate and date were only 65.4 percent in 2010, but in 2018 it was 80.3 percent. The influence of public procurement is also indicated by the fact that, since 2010, there has been hardly a year when the proportion of single-interested applications has fallen below 25-30 percent. This indicator is quite high. In Western Europe, the ratio is typically around 15 percent, i.e. half of Hungary. Let me give you an example of that, otherwise it happened to me. A good friend of mine in Debrecen doesn't appear to be running in Debrecen as a major contractor. When I asked him why that was, he said it was completely unnecessary. In the beginning, he fought, he applied, but it doesn't make sense, the cards are divided. You're gonna win whoever's in politics, and that's drama. As is the drama, however, we are at a point where Hungary, ahead of Bulgaria, is the second most corrupt country in the European region. When we talk about public procurement, you get a heartache about how much money goes missing, or you could build a better, better, more European country, a world, but that's not what happened. The Mészáros empire was built from it, and the oligarch team was built, which Viktor Orbán calmly calls the national capital class. The constitutional cost system has been established. There are public procurements where up to 70-80 percent of the money has to be distributed, and that's the drama. And I am very, very happy that at last the European Union was able to do what I said at the very beginning of my speech that the rule of law condition had been strengthened. I hope that this will make the system of public procurement better in Hungary, and that the centralized theft, which is characteristic of the Orbán course, will finally cease. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-128	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-11-05-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Basically, there are two ways in which I now have to use this 15-minute lead speaker speech to list the shocking and shocking corruption cases of the past period and their protagonists, as my fellow Members have otherwise done, or to ignore it. I think that there is one thing that I will certainly argue with my fellow Member in DK. He says, in many ways, that when we look at such a bill, it is not possible to see only the letters of the law, and that it is not possible to discuss only the lines of this, the paragraphs of this. [[16.40]] We have an argument that yes, it is very difficult, but it is also necessary and our duty. There are a lot of amendments and demands in this bill before us, which we agree with, and in many respects the relevant laws need to be amended. I would add that we also see a lot of such amendments in this, which can be supported in itself. At the same time, as the Socialist Member has said, there are also a lot of problems and concerns in the bill now in this form. Therefore, I do not want to publish another long list of how we claim that corruption is now at historical level. We will take a constructive approach to this issue, and we will use this bill to submit proposals for amendments, we will try to amend the public procurement law and other relevant legislation in such a way that the risks and legitimate concerns that have been expressed by my fellow opposition Members will be eliminated as best as possible. So I will act in this way, and we will present proposals for amendments. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-11-05-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-05-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13474. Parliament's proposal to propose amendments to the Public Procurement Act, partly referring to European judicial decisions, partly referring to EU directives. I also do not think that the reason for proposing this proposal was not that the government knew precisely that EU funds would be subject to the rule of law criterion by the European Commission, and, as we can see, the news about it has also been published today. I think the Hungarian government has learned about this much earlier. Another reason I feel is that the election of 2022 is approaching, and the government would like to show that by amending the laws and procedures that the opposition has brought to order against it the reason that its governance is inadequate, it is using such proposals to regain confidence. The third reason is very clear, and that is that the government tasks caused by the coronal virus epidemic require extreme speed, and, of course, the legislation must also be ordered to serve this. Although I note that, after having a special legal order, the provisions in force in the Public Procurement Act also provide an ample opportunity for the government to obtain the means necessary for defence without public procurement. But it is also a fact that, as a result of the corona virus epidemic, we are all preparing for an economic crisis. I personally hope that one of the ways to overcome this is by not winning public procurement by the same governmental circles as my opposition fellow Member listed before me, but by using the principle of living and letting go, by all those who can effectively perform in public procurement procedures, even if they do not come from close to the government, should have the opportunity to do so. Whether you like it or not, honourable Members, honourable House, public procurement has been in a climate of distrust for 30 years. Whatever government has been in Hungary for the last thirty years, the opposition side has always found the handholds that have no wonder they have developed the slang on the public procurement system that is in fact the system of acquisition. I have to say, and since there are opposition fellows in this room who were not part of the government, so I'm not likely to offend them, we can argue about the scale, but that each government took advantage of the opportunities provided by the Public Procurement Act and that it was in fact able to play out the bidders against each other, and that it was indisputable that it was possible to give the pals the opportunity in public procurement. The point for me is not that someone did a little or a big crime, stole a little or a big one, but that they violated legislation or not. I think, by the way, that this proposal has many good parts. The one aimed at cutting red tape is certainly a blessing. Indeed, the complexity of the Public Procurement Act has created a special area of expertise, and a public procurement consultant must have some amazing up-to-date knowledge to effectively assist those who wish to participate in public procurement. Mr Secretary of State said in his exposé that I would like to help small businesses and medium-sized enterprises to gain a greater share of business through administrative reductions, but let me say with great respect that there are plenty of small and medium-sized enterprises in economic communities close to the government as well. I would rather that, at least in the next year and a half, the government would say to all those who have the right to make a decision in public procurement to open the field to all; simply to regain the confidence that the government has lost in this area over the past ten years with its infinite one-sidedness. We talk about it a lot, and we read a little bit about how unreliable bidders, unreliable entrepreneurs, can be filtered out in this proposal. Twenty years ago, I begged all governments to have in some way some kind of accessible blacklist of people who, while receiving their products in public procurement, received their services from public and municipal organisations, did not pay their subcontractors. These people should be excluded from this possibility forever. The other issue is that slowly, I think, half of economic life would be out of this circle, but I still think that some kind of measure, some sort of definition of the weight of illegality, as a guiding aspect, should be introduced in this area. By the way, it's 18. § 2 concerns this part, but somehow I feel that it is not in itself possible to really filter out former irresponsible entrepreneurs and businesses who abuse the right and the situation. We all know that in public procurement procedures, especially in large public investment, bidders regularly make tenders, and I say that they do not exclude them, and they remain not one, but more until the evaluation. And what do we see? Some measure is specified in the notice, some technical content is offered, it is awarded the most optimal tender according to the public procurement examiner. What's gonna happen? By the time this task is carried out, by the time the acquisition and construction are completed, it will end at a price of one and a half to two. The problem is that in most cases we never see that the technical content has been modified in a way that should have been used to publish new public procurement, or that public procurement has been deliberately issued on a different content, so that, with a price that will be kept relatively low, the remuneration can be raised at the end, and the entrepreneur and all those who would like to benefit from it would otherwise benefit. I would like to ask the honourable government, if, with this proposal, he has already begun to make his wish for transparency and cleaning of public procurement come true, in some way, to do so, also to give an answer so as to prevent any increase in consideration in public procurement. As a result, the contracting authority sends a full message that those who lost might have been able to do it at a really cheaper rate than the final price, but, as a result of the discussion between the tenderer or the tenderer and the tenderer and the tenderer, the taxpayer was able to obtain a much lower price. I very much welcome the part of the proposal for a preliminary market consultation. I didn't even understand why when the Public Procurement Act was first created, there was no such possibility, because everyone knows that it costs a lot more to buy a toilet paper if it's purchased in public procurement than if we went into the store. So, amazingly, many times, the way in which prices from market prices are thrown into offers, and at the end of the day, when the acquisition is assessed, its rating turns out to be even more expensive. [[16.50]] I would like the preliminary market consultation to be strongly oriented in the cost of finally winning public procurement. It is a very welcome proposal not to lose the guarantee if the offer is not valid, because these two things are, in fact, independent of each other and have caused very serious damage to the bidders. One of my fellow Members spoke about it, and it has really been shown by every statistician who deals with public procurement, that by the middle of the last decade companies have stopped making public tenders, simply because they have constantly seen huge work, huge investment, and the same business circles win it. You guys in this room have been saying to me more than once, but please, why don't companies start public procurement. This is exactly like Pavlov's dog: if you get hit in the head a lot and you can't get a good offer to win a single public procurement, then after a while, you say that it's unnecessary to invest this terrible energy, because I can't make it to this market anyway. I am very pleased that the proposal is about banning the length of proceedings, but we are still talking about 180 days as the final date. And the reason that that matters is why I'm bringing this up right now, is because, yes, I would definitely vary in terms of maximum time if I were a legislator. Because the offer of a major investment is completely different, there is no doubt that it takes 180 days to make a good decision, and indeed it is the one who can do it, but many times it is a simple acquisition, which is about one-off delivery, even if it is a big one, it is unduly delayed, we do not see why we had to wait months to evaluate it, the companies that want to win the acquisition are waiting for it. In any case, I would in some way distinguish the types of procurement from one-off deliveries, such as long-term contracts, such as the assumption of a longer term supply. Because that's why it's 18 months many because, for example, when there was a migrant crisis, and then there was a problem of a coronal virus epidemic, or, for example, now that the Eucharistic Congress is here, there was a regular need to exempt from public procurement in the Defence and Police Committee in cases where there was no secret, there was no defence interest, no nature of procurement which should be considered very carefully, but only one aspect was that there was a request for a waiver in order to be slow in public procurement. So I would somehow bring together coherence between maximum procedural time and this type of procurement, because I think that if public procurement in general, especially in the case of non-complicated purchases, should take place in a much smaller period of time, then there would not be so much exemption from public procurement, because it again generates transparency. I have just heard from my fellow Members about the possibility of weighing out the exclusion. It is also very beneficial for me not to be forever punished by a person who once made a small mistake that could then be used against him so that he would not be successful in public procurement. But it is also not good for those who deserve to be excluded, but it is simply in the interest of us not to rule it out, and the judge of public procurement can justify why he now feels that although he has made mistakes before, he does not need to be excluded. I'd like to welcome you to Kbt. 62. Paragraph (1) (a), in which it concerns the possibility, of course, that companies in bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings and winding-ups may obtain public procurement that they can carry out at the right time, because this is fully in line with the latest amendment of the bankruptcy law, when the government said that finally overruled the former principles, that the aim of bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings is not to put an end to the organizations, but to stay on their feet. As a lawyer, I had a lot of problems trying to save companies, and the liquidators told me that, but please, these two institutions are aimed at closing down companies. I never understood. Now that this has been reversed by the last amendment to the bankruptcy law, and that is finally its aim, it is welcome, and this amending proposal, I think, is appropriate. The question of the price cartel: the proposal mentions the exclusion of those who have ever been included in the price cartel. I would like the government to be much more strict in all areas with regard to price cartels. Once in one of these, you have lost confidence in both the citizens and the state organisation, and I would like you to be excluded from any institutional system of this type. Punishment due to labour violations, so as not to be involved in public procurement: I have recently been involved in such..., not in such a way, but in situations where voters have introduced me when a series of labour infringements have been committed in the course of public procurement activities. I also freed the company from the labour inspectorate. So, in this regard, I would also like the government to be very strict on such matters. I will vote for the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-05-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would also like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate by his representative. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2020-11-05-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for the support and but constructive proposals made in the debate. There have been some political resolutions that I can, of course, respond to by reason of my political type of job, I will do this briefly at the beginning, and then I would like to mention a few things about constructive contributions. On the one hand, the rule of law procedure came up here. Let me add, however, that the relationship between the rule of law procedure negotiated in the European Union and in Brussels and the transparency of public procurement is very, very, very distant, unfortunately there is a remote link. It is true at the moment that the battle that takes place between several Member States' governments and Brussels with regard to the conclusion of the budget for the next period on the rule of law conditions for the use of the so-called RRF is unfortunately not in the context of the state of the legal system of those Member States. This is the case, and this is also the problem of the Hungarian Government, that these so-called rule of law conditions are not, in fact, the rule of law, but they are political clubs, which serve the purpose of forcing a Member State representing a political ideology to back down. This is a problem because this does not make any sense and does not drive forward cooperation between Member States, but, on the contrary, hinders it. By the way, I would say to the DK and Socialist Members, who were fantastically pleased with the decision of the European Parliament today that this is a long-distance run, so it is still a matter of the European Council's decision to proceed with the negotiations on the budget, the MFF and the RRF negotiations, the European Parliament intends to amend this conditionality, and then the European Council decides unanimously that the Member States are willing to contribute to this. And if so, then there will be a budget for the next period; if not, then no, and then those Member States and those Members of Parliament will be responsible for this, or for the bankruptcy of the southern states who voted today as they voted on this issue. So even though it's written in the left-wing media, I'd be a little more careful if I were you, 'cause it's gonna be a big knock. But if we put this in parentheses, and now, in a narrow sense, we focus on the proposal, there are a few things that have been mentioned here, I would respond accurately to them. [[17.00]] There was a question of discretion as to the basis for which this discretion could be exercised. Here I think that if we read the Public Procurement Act together with the principles and interpret these rules as the European Union otherwise proposes, then it is quite clear that all such discretion must be interpreted in accordance with EU principles and thus in accordance with the principle of proportionality. It has been noted that public procurement procedures last for a long time, so that they are delayed, and although there has been a remark that the proposal contains progress in this respect, I would like to stress that the vast majority of procedures and the procedural time limit as a rule are 30 days at the moment, 60 days in the case of checks incorporated into the process, and that this can be extended by 60 days. It is not, therefore, that, in principle, this procedure would take 180 days. The proposal does not contain a provision in this context. It was considered why the exclusion of the conclusion of a framework agreement in the context of an emergency negotiated procedure without notice was considered. Well, because, for example, with regard to the coronal virus, we have seen that, in certain procedures, an inaccessible amount of stuff has to be obtained from masks and disinfectants, so this can be considered a life-like modification, and in these times of distress, it is particularly important. The amendments to the treaties and the transparency of them were also mentioned here, if I understand correctly. The amendments to the contract and their notices are open to the public and the amendment is subject to a title which the Public Procurement Authority can verify at any time by means of a so-called notice check. So I don't really see a problem with that either. Many political criticisms were also raised in connection with the operation of the public procurement system, and there were different business circles. I would just like to draw attention here to the fact that it is worth dealing with these criticisms carefully. If I remember correctly, Mr Varga mentioned the report of the Corruption Research Centre as an objective reference in his very dynamic speech. Well, I would like to tell you here, for the sake of the record, that the Corruption Research Centre has definitively lost its lawsuit against the Public Procurement Authority in the context of that study, and it has been found that the Research Centre has violated the reputation of the Public Procurement Authority and has used manipulated data. So it's okay that something sounds good, and something in the narrative of the left would be possible to fit in according to political calculations, but the thing is that most of these things stand in a way that doesn't stand the test of reality. Our principle, our political attitude, is clear in this respect. Laws have to be followed by everyone. If information on an infringement is made available to anyone, it is worth turning to the authorities. Moreover, international organisations that are authorised to do so are also examining the performance of all EU Member States, and there is continuous cooperation between these international organisations and, for example, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office. There is a ratio where, for example, the percentage of the judicial findings initiated by OLAF, which fall within the competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the national prosecutors in the Member States are prosecuting, and this seems to be an extremely objective indicator and shows how the prosecution and the judicial system act in relation to the legality of public procurement and possible criminally relevant errors. And this indicator is 47 percent for Hungary. So 47 percent of the cases, which are of this type, are dealt with by the Hungarian prosecutor's office. The EU rate is 39 per cent, but for example for Germany we see a 13 per cent ratio. So I think we have nothing to be ashamed of. Of course, there is always room for improvement in this regard. I'd like to tell you a few things, some data and context, if you'll allow me. The extent and number of negotiated procedures without notice have been raised; this is also a type of procedure on which most criticisms are drawn up. While in 2014 the number of these types of procedures was 3626, in 2017 only 482 of these procedures could be registered, which is 8 percent of all procedures. This puts Hungary below the so-called 10-percent benchmark established in the European Union. Here I look at the later data: In 2019 this number continued to decrease, and only 274 of these procedures were recorded. Thirteen birds in the last six years have been reduced in these types of procedures. It is also crucial for the functionality of the system to see how many offers are received in a given procedure and to what extent only one offer is received. Because obviously, where only one offer comes in, it's hard to talk about racing. And in this respect you can see... I'm sorry, I'm looking for my data. I think I'll find them later... yes. This is also about making the most critical investments to ensure that the level of competition is adequate. In addition, they make the most of it. About 60 percent of the total public procurement value for works and, on average, three competitive tenders were received for each contract in 2020. It is true, then, that the number of single-offer procedures could otherwise be better in an international comparison, but in fact in those procedures where this is the most critical for the functioning of the competition and where we are particularly well standing. Another important indicator is the number of tenders per public procurement procedure, which also indicates that competition is healthy in this market. On average, six companies compete for public procurement contracts in each procedure. This has also increased compared to last year. In this context, there has been criticism from the opposition side, so I would like to put this in a clear, numerically justified framework. April 2018 was a major turning point on the transparency of public procurement, when the e-procurement system was launched. This is mandatory for both contracting authorities and tenderers. This has clearly increased the auditability and transparency of procedures and is confirmed by EU contexts and EU investigations. Practically 100% of the public obligations imposed by the Union are fulfilled in Hungary. On the basis of indicator 10 of the European Commission's Internal Market Scoreboard, 98 percent of the information in public procurement procedures is public, accurate and accessible to anyone. [[17.10]] Therefore, it can be interpreted in the context of the openness, transparency and traceability of procedures, and therefore, in addition to the political horsehouses and puffs, no technically understandable criticism can be formulated. The involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in the proceedings can be assumed in connection with the fact that it is often said that only certain large business circles win these proceedings. This can be nuanced by the fact that, although Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said that not all milk is in the SME market, it is still the case that the proportion of winning SMEs in the total public procurement shows the purity of competition in the relevant market, according to all relevant EU and international findings. The procedures containing the winning SMEs accounted for 87 percent of total public procurement in 2019, representing more than 8500 procedures. Over HUF 2000 billion in public procurement was awarded to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which represents an increase of 5.5 percent for the previous year. Its total share, i.e. total public procurement, is 58,8 per cent. So out of every 100 forints spent in public procurement, 59 forints are sold to SMEs. In the first half of 2020, the same ratio was HUF 68 out of 100 for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is indeed true that the epidemic situation can bring about a change in this regard. It's a threat. There are fewer procurement procedures and fewer SME start-ups. This is precisely what this proposal is about, to put in place administrative burden reliefs that encourage small and medium-sized and micro-enterprises to start up public procurement procedures, not to be a deterrent to Leviathan, but a real option, and then we can still improve the ratio of 100 forints to SMEs compared to 68 per cent of last year compared to 58.5 per cent. That is our aim, and that is why we have brought this bill before this House, and that is precisely why we would like to ask you to allow the bill to pass through the House with as much support as possible in addition to party policy logic. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-11-05-134	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Our fellow Members have withdrawn their intention to speak after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
