u2020-04-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 15th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Dear House, I must fulfill my sad duty to announce that our former colleague György Fekete, President of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, and then his honorary president, died in the 87th year of his life. György Fekete was born in Zalaegerszeg in 1932. In 1957 he earned his honorary degree in interior architecture at the College of Applied Arts, devoted his life to his profession and enriching Hungarian cultural life. As a politician between 1990 and 94 he was Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Public Education of the Antall Government and one of the founders and first president of the Hungarian Cultural Fund. In 1994 he obtained his mandate in the colours of the MDF in the 18th single-member constituency of Budapest, and until 1998 he was a member of the Hungarian Parliament. During his term of office, he worked first as an independent representative and then as a member of the KDNP fraction. As a Member of Parliament, he was a member of the Cultural Committee. György Fekete worked with an active cultural and public activity in addition to his extremely rich creative work. He played a role in the creation of one of Hungary's most important cultural institutions, the Hungarian Academy of Arts, of which he became the first and then re-elected president, and from 2017 he was honorary president of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. György Fekete's work was recognized with several awards, including the Munkácsy Prize and the Kossuth Prize, but he was also the holder of the title of decorative citizen of several settlements and professor emeritus, and he was among others a member of the Holy Crown Board and Chairman of the National Artist Award Committee. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2020-04-20-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, it has been a week when the internal and international agenda has, of course, been dominated by the fight against the world epidemic. Hungary is also fighting on several fronts, fighting on several fronts against the pandemic and its consequences. The most important front is, of course, the area of health, because the first task is to protect the health and life of Hungarian people. Allow us, therefore, once again, because it cannot be enough, Mr President, to thank doctors, nurses and other hospital and clinic workers working in the health care sector for the superhuman struggle that they have fought in the last week in order to keep the health effects of the pandemic to a minimum. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the most important prerequisite for the success of health protection is to provide adequate supplies to Hungarian health care workers, especially those who are really on the front line, so they have direct contact with the infected, directly involved in their care. I respectfully inform my fellow Members, and that is why I asked for the floor to do so again this week, that we have delivered 21 aircraft and 3 trucks to Hungary in the last week. I respectfully inform you that in the last week, a total of 22.5 million health protection masks have arrived in Hungary, of which 20 650 000 were surgical masks and 1 850 000 were masks with a higher level of protection. As a whole, fellow Members, 72 954 890 masks have come to Hungary since the crisis and the outbreak of the pandemic. This is roughly half of the quantity for which we have a contract. According to the contracts, after almost 73 million masks received, we expect 75 852 550 masks to be delivered to Hungary under the contracts, of which 59.5 million surgical masks and 16.3 million masks to enable a higher level of protection. I would also like to inform you that, in terms of ventilators, 220 have arrived in Hungary in the last week, with a total of 538. I would also like to inform you that we have been able to deliver 50,000 tests to Hungary in the last week, so the number of now imported tests has increased to 402 327. Last week 10 654 376 protective clothing products, glasses, gloves, cap, face protection and overalls came into Hungary, thus increasing the total number of imported products to 32.5 million. We have 27 million contracts here. Ladies and gentlemen, In many places around the world, attempts are being made to develop vaccines or to develop medicines that allow or at least aim to be more effective in the treatment of the effects of the coronal virus than at present. I would like to inform you that according to the agreement with the Chinese Government, 400 000 medicines called Favipiravir have recently arrived in Hungary, and the People's Republic of China has allowed purchases to be made to 4 countries, which, depending on the dosage, is suitable for the treatment of about 4,000 patients. I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the tests for the development of this type of medicine in Japan are also ongoing. With regard to Avigan-type medicine, we agreed with Japan that a total of 12 500 medicines are available to treat 100 patients in order to conduct clinical trials and clinical trials in addition to the treatment of patients. I would like to inform you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we are expecting tons of cargo on both air and land again this week. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-2	In the two-minute time frame available to the factions, I give the word to Gergely Arató for the first time to respond.
u2020-04-20-3	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, We really thank everyone who is involved in the fight against the epidemic in one way or another, and, of course, these briefings are always useful, which we can listen to here, after we have already heard them in the press. However, it shows very well the government's relationship with Parliament and to inform Parliament that we have the opportunity to enjoy your production reports every week and to learn nothing about the issues that are really important. We won't know when they're expecting the peak of the plague. On Friday, the Prime Minister says that we are waiting for the plague to become a mass, on Saturday or Sunday Ajka says that on May 3rd. If the epidemic really peaks on May 3rd, then on what grounds are you graduating on May 4th, how terribly irresponsible is that? We are hearing from the Minister for Health today, or at least nominally health, that we are doing very well, very few infections and very few deaths. Say this when, by the way, we lose one in ten infected people detected in Hungary. Every ten. That's 10 percent. In Germany, this figure is 3 percent, in Austria, which is said to be the lab, also 3 percent, in the Czech Republic 3.5 percent. We have 10 percent. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Age Ranges!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, What is the reason for this? When will we be informed? When do we get information that if the data is as good as you say it is, and as Minister of Health said this morning, not in Parliament, because he doesn't dare to come in here, but on Kossuth radio, that if the data is so good, then why is it necessary to inhumanly expel people from the hospital, people who need care and treatment? These are the basic questions. [[13.20]] Until you give us information on this, there is no credibility in your decisions, nor will the citizens trust that these decisions are correct and can have very serious consequences. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-4	Szabó Timea is next. [[Grumbles and interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz, including: Hear!]]
u2020-04-20-5	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I'd like to ask you where the Prime Minister is. Viktor Orbán hasn't dared to show his face here in a month. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] What's going on in this country. If we were so good in this country, we wouldn't have the highest mortality rate in the world. Not in Europe, in the world! In Croatia there are 2.5 percent, in Slovakia 1 percent, in the Czech Republic 2.8 percent, in Poland 3.8 percent, in Hungary 10 percent. If we have the protective equipment, if we're doing so well in hospital care, why do so many people die at our house? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Plus, we don't know where these masks go. Every time the Prime Minister parades in front of the press in hospitals, half the time, there's no mask on the host doctors, or there's a surgical mask that most doctors say it's not worth much. However, we hear that they received 21,000 masks in Cluj County, 60,000 masks in Mures County, Beregszász, Csíkszereda, Kovasna County, Zilahon [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Interviews from Fidesz, among them: They are Hungarians!]] Croatia, Macedonia... [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Clap your hands! Clap your hands! But in these countries... [[To the end of the speech, a round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] I'll wait. Thank you, Mr President, I'm sure you appreciate that. Let's see, shall we, Mr. President? Okay, well, if you've all been applauded, I'd like to say that you've come from central personnel as protective equipment to the county hospital, to the GP's office 19 pairs... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2020-04-20-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Unfortunately, I couldn't help it with your tumultuous apologies. Thank you very much. [[Szabó Timea:... gloves suitable for hair painting. I'm sorry, it's a sabotage of the speech you're doing. You have no right!]] László László Keresztes is next. [[Szabó Timea: Shame on you, Mr President, and shame on you to allow the opposition speech to be sabotaged.]] If László László Keresztes may withdraw his speech, please indicate this, because I will give the floor to someone else. [[Szabó Timea: Okay, then I'll signal! Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Complaining from the ranks of Fidesz: Competence!]] If your name is László László Keresztes, feel free to inform us. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader, you have the floor, and you've already lost 25 seconds of your time.
u2020-04-20-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think we are talking about very important issues. [[Szabó Timea: This is parliamentarianism! Shame!]] We need to be a little more careful to preserve the dignity of the Parliament. I would also like to begin by thanking everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people, health workers and everyone who is fighting in the front line. I would like to thank everyone involved in the procurement of assets for their work. This is extremely important. I would argue that these are very important issues, but at the same time I agree perfectly with my fellow Members, my fellow opposition Members, that in this situation, it would be justified for other members of the government, besides you, to pay their respects in the Parliament. I think in a situation where the Medical Chamber doesn't understand what's going on in health care, the Minister for Health should be here. When, in fact, about your graduation date, Prime Minister, you announce that you are waiting for the peak of the epidemic, the Minister should be here to answer these questions. At a time when the actors close to the government acknowledge that your historic economic rescue package is insufficient, Minister Palkovics should be here and speak up and give information. Nevertheless, Minister, these acquisitions of assets are very important, but there seems to be a problem in terms of distribution. I am very happy, and I told you this last week that we were able to get it to Hungarians across the border. This is extremely important. All Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] But it is also extremely important, and I ask my fellow Members, and please, Minister, that they are already talking about millions of assets and purchases, and yet we are also hearing from pro-government mayors that they do not have access to the municipalities. There's a very serious problem with the distribution within the border. Please solve this problem. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-8	Now it's time for István Hollik. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for the report. We also thank you for the fact that, thanks to the work of the Hungarian Government and your work, we have enough protective equipment in Hungary today. You have to thank me for that because it's not clear. Today's news is that in England, for example, they are running out of protective equipment, so it is not natural for all protective equipment to be available in all countries, so thank you to the foreign workers. I would like to say to my fellow Members who oppose me: when health measures are criticised, the truth should not be completely ignored. So when you are criticized, be kind enough to read today's interview by the head of the World Health Organization's office in Budapest, which came down on the website of Klubradio, otherwise not to be accused of pro-government. He claims that Hungary has tested enough and that the health measures in Hungary are adequate. Please, don't ignore this. The second is that when the government's actions are criticised for its action against health and epidemics, they are not criticising the government, but those professionals whose opinions are taken into account by the government. You can be sure that these health professionals saved lives, unlike Szabó Timea. Don't ignore that. Once again, on behalf of KDNP, I would like to thank the health workers, doctors and nurses for their sacrifice in the past week and in previous times. For many times, I would like to ask opposition representatives not to make unfounded accusations if they no longer help with health protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-10	The word is Kosa Lajos's.
u2020-04-20-11	Mr. President. Dear House, Before I respond to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, I would like to make two comments. Gergely Arató complained that the government wasn't telling us exactly when the outbreak would peak and when the epidemic would end. Obviously, he's used to something else, as we remember, during the Gyurcsány government, there was a government oracle operated by György Szilvásy's brother. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And turning to that kind of data, I'm guessing they got it easy. We do not have a government oracle, my dear fellow Member of the Harvest. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] So, like no one in the world, we can't tell when the plague will end, and when it peaks, there are only estimates for that. If you want more accurate data, please contact Mr. Szilvasy's brother. On the other hand, I would like to remind Members of the figures. Szabó Timea complained that a few thousand out of 72 million mouth masks were distributed to our brothers across borders. This insensitiveness is shocking, and the fact that someone is so far outside the Hungarian nation, and it doesn't mean anything if it is brotherly help, friendly help, or humanitarian help at all. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: Yes! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Finally, I would just like to say that Péter Szijjártó did not add what he knows exactly, that all these purchases had to be made in a world market context where solidarity, the Germans, the Dutch, and so much solidarity, so much emphasised by others, disappeared in a moment, and the European countries showing great solidarity have done so by promising these instruments for Hungarian shipments and shipments. In addition, thank you very much for the effort that Mr Szijjártó has made in this matter. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-12	On behalf of Jobbik, the word is given to Congressman László György Lukács. [[13.30]]
u2020-04-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to thank all those involved in purchasing, bringing home and distributing defence equipment, as well as health and social workers. Let me also remember that we have been able to meet here in Parliament for the last 30 days. I know that this is a great pleasure for the pro-government side, but it also points out that we would have been able to come here in a very calm manner, and that we would have been able to vote calmly on all the regulations taken by the Orbán government. Viktor Orbán should not have asked for unlimited authorisation, and then he would not have to bear the responsibility unlimitedly. Allow me to add that, if you have already talked about the fact that we have brought in so many instruments for millions: Minister, if we have brought in so many instruments, and that is true, then why are you taking a mask from the municipality of your own party? Zoltán Pokorni told me that they seized the masks that were intended for the municipality. In essence, you took these masks from the citizens of Budapest and from the elderly in Budapest. Instead of you handing out these masks to people, they're storing them now. I understand that it must be stored and stocked, but it must be understood that now, at this stage, people need a mask, not only for health workers involved in protection, but also for social and law enforcement workers. We need to get him to them. In fact, Jobbik demands that there be mandatory masks provided by the state in public areas, to which you provide the mask. If there really is 73 million, if there really is 75 million, then there must be an opportunity to provide masks to the most vulnerable and to society as a whole, because it is one of the protections. And the other defense would be what you brought in 402,000 of, and we're not testing it. The defense lies in the test. Believe me, we need to be tested to get real data, because right now we're just walking in the dark, and we don't know how many people are really involved. This will give people false security, and the result of false security that they saw this weekend in Budapest, that people are going out, leaving the comfort zone, and not taking care of themselves enough. That's your responsibility, too. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-14	Mr. Bertalan Tóth is next. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is commendable that you, like a falcon, strike down every shipment and bring it to Hungary. But I don't know who's supposed to come into Parliament and tell us where these tools are going. Because my fellow Members have seen that these instruments have been placed in a warehouse for weeks now, and we do not understand why this cannot be delivered to the people. Minister, you're talking about 72 million masks, but I don't understand why you can't send masks to every Hungarian citizen in an envelope, just like you did in Szombathely, Pécs and Miskolc. With the money saved for national consultation, you could solve this. We recommend putting together a protective package for people over the age of 65 with a bottle of hand sanitizer, ten pairs of gloves and three FFP3 types of masks to protect them most. Begin mass testing, Minister, because you are talking about 402,000 rapid tests, while the hospital director informed me that there are 162 700 out in the institutions. Where's the rest of it? Why can't this be delivered? Begin mass testing. The protective equipment collected in the warehouse should finally be delivered to front workers, workers at high health risk, health and social workers, and to those who have direct contact with citizens. And we also recommend that those who are in the front and who are in contact with citizens double their basic salary as a hazard supplement and give social workers HUF 500,000. I'm very confident that next week, a minister who doesn't report how much they've brought in is coming here, but tells me how much and where they've been assigned, because that's the real defense. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-16	Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue with the series of speeches before the agenda. Szabó Timea's faction leader is the subject of the word again.
u2020-04-20-17	It's been almost a month and a half since you announced an emergency with the Crown Virus. Let us now look at what has happened at home under the direction of Viktor Orbán since 11 March. Your first and most important measure was to adopt a dictatorship law called the Powers Act. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Since the outbreak of the epidemic, Viktor Orbán has considered it his main task to use people's deaths and severe suffering to steal even more, while cutting down local governments and spending money on people on disease management. (Noise on the pro-government side. ) The details of the 700 billion HUF Budapest-Belgrád railway line were quickly encrypted under the collar of the Crown Virus, while Lőrinc Mészáros immediately received a few billionaire orders from the business. They took the state land, they played the conservation areas for their friends, and, of course, they restocked the churches, which, by the way, are where they are now during the epidemic treatment, because there is little to hear about them. [[There's a lot of noise on the pro-government side.]] Their economic package was also so good that we are now at 300,000 unemployed people who receive Europe's shortest long-term and lowest unemployment benefit. Those of you who still have a job didn't get any better with unpaid leave, with half-time wages, which you still refuse to compensate for. In Austria, a Hungarian employee recently said that an hour after he announced that he had lost his job, EUR 1000 appeared in his bank account from the state. [[Deficiencies and noise on the pro-government side.]] Not only is Austria doing so, but it also acts in the same way in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia, where 80 percent of wages are compensated by the state. Orbán refuses to take 20 percent of this. And speaking of Slovakia, how is it that Slovakia has 12 fatalities so far and we have 199? Eighteen times as many people died in Hungary as in Slovakia. But there's worse data than that. As long as the global mortality rate is 6.7 percent, that's 10 percent for us. Just to be clear, most people die in the coronal virus epidemic throughout the round world in Hungary. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Even in Italy and Spain, where the epidemic is admitted to be mistreated, there are not as many deaths as in Hungary. How do you explain this? There's no way to explain it, because these outrageous numbers can't be rationally explained. There is only one explanation for this, that this is the result of the fact that, over the past ten years, Viktor Orbán was not concerned with the well-being and help of the people, not with the expertise, not with the prosperity of the country, but with the insane amount of theft, and that he should surround himself with such foolish, insolent, organized people who dare not go against any inhuman and insolent measures. The most obvious example of this is not only the appointment of Miklós Kásler, but also the encouragement of the rampage that this butcher has done in recent weeks. [[An uproar on the pro-government side.]] Kasler cleared 36,000 hospital beds without getting any math. In Italy, where the epidemic was most severe in Europe, 3,200 cases needing hospital treatment are recorded in Spain, 47 million in Spain, and 13,400 in the United States of 330 million. Well, where the hell do we need 36,000 beds? In addition, the measures sent home end-stage cancer patients, helpless patients with strokes, amputees, dangerous psychiatric patients. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. A voice from Fidesz: Don't lie!]] My grandmother is 77 years old, helpless, demented patient, who had a limb amputation two weeks ago, completely helpless, needs constant supervision, needs diapers, said a relative. And that's just one of thousands of family tragedies. And what's the government's reaction to that? It's about firing hospital leaders who resist this massacre. Even Zsolt Bayer, who was rarely accused of opposition, called the replacement of Péter Cserháti incomprehensible, as did Zoltán Balog, the Hospital Association and the Hungarian Medical Chamber. And we did not mention the graduates also under Kasler, many of whom will endanger the lives of thousands of more people with asthma, disease, or even others without symptoms. Viktor Orbán and you now believe that these inhumanities will remain unpunished until the end of time. But don't worry, there will come a time when you will pay very severely for these thefts, inhumanities and madness for servoilism. We're gonna take you down. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] to change with the united opposition. I don't understand, my five minutes haven't passed yet, but they took the sound away from me!
u2020-04-20-18	Congresswoman, you will have the three seconds, and I would just like to warn you first that your tone of speech does not make it any worse in substance, the tone you use in the pub. I'm so sorry and sad that I have to warn a lady that the rudeness she allows you to do is out of line. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] There you go. You have three seconds.
u2020-04-20-19	And you didn't give me the floor for the order of business, Mr. President, which...
u2020-04-20-20	Thank you very much. Your three seconds are up. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Csaba Dömötör comes with the answer. [[Uproar, interruptions on the opposition side.]] [[13.40]]
u2020-04-20-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to answer in a calm manner. It's hard, but we're in the Parliament, and the fight against the epidemic is the most important thing. I would have been very surprised if you once acknowledged any of the country's achievements in your life, but it is still a fact that the cooperation that has developed in Hungary over the last few weeks has its results. Because the hard part is still on, but we managed to flatten the epidemic curve, and that buys us time, time for health to prepare for the stage of mass diseases that we can enter at any time. First of all, it is worth clarifying what the purpose is in this regard. The aim is to ensure that all infected patients also have room for mass diseases, and that Hungarian doctors do not have to, honourable Member, make decisions such as, say, in Italy, where they had to choose who would receive life-saving care. We would like to ask you, not to panic, but to join forces. As for the numbers, honourable Member, I have listened with patience to you. [[Szabó Timea: They did not listen with patience!]] As regards the number of dead persons per million inhabitants, in Austria it is 51, in Portugal 69, in Sweden 151 and in Hungary 20. So it's much lower. [[Szabó Timea is leaving the Chamber. An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Congresswoman, you're at odds with the facts, you can't stand the facts, that's why you're leaving the meeting room. I wanted to tell you that I understand that you have all kinds of suggestions, but the thing is, you are also in government positions in many places. And it is in our common interest, for example, that there should not be an epidemic in Budapest, but your party president should also be on board, and so far we should not say that he is a fighter. Think of the decision to thin the flight, the hesitation in parking, and then there's the question of testing that they're constantly demanding, and they've received money from their foreign allies, and then they don't tell us how to use it. In addition, the most important issue is the issue of nursing homes. We are well aware that elderly people, including those in nursing homes, are particularly at risk of infection. We also know that the biggest focal point today is the Pesti Road nursing home, where 223 people caught the virus, and unfortunately 23 of them have already died. The government will give the elderly homes all the help they can to ensure a sufficient level of protection, but it will also require the mayor, and it is not right to continue to give explanations in such a situation and post Facebook between two government posts. Step into the field of action and assume the responsibility that you were entrusted with on 13 October. Day-to-day ideas from PR consultants will not be enough in this situation, because every missed action has a high and high cost. However, there are measures that you have taken. My question to Mrs President is, when will Gergely Christmas be called to account in a similar manner for the restrictions in the capital, because she announced this morning that a great many developments in the capital will be stopped. When do you say you're preparing a huge salary increase for CEOs in the capital, up to 40 percent, and that you'll hire 40 people in the time of crisis? When will your coalition partner be told not to sign with a tax criminal's law firm in Erzsébetváros for HUF 53 million net? You, of course, have the opportunity to do this policy, you have the authority in October, but we would have one request: if we had the consequences of these decisions, then don't blame it on the government and assume political responsibility. And one more thing, because I cannot go without saying a word to him, and I regret to say so many years after the referendum on 5 December: they are alive, honourable Members, honourable Congresswoman Szabó Timea, millions of Hungarians and foreign Hungarians beyond our borders. It is not their fault that they have broken out of our borders, that history has made them survive decades of communism, that they have survived the fact that they could not even talk about their cause, the rights, the fundamental rights that you demand for others here all the time, they have been denied for decades, and now we have the opportunity to give them a helping hand, and we will, because we belong together. And if there's a parliamentary party in the opposition who wants to deny them this help, it's sad, but more than that: scandal! Shame on you! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-22	The next speaker before the agenda will be Mr Péter Ungár, on behalf of the LMP. You have the floor.
u2020-04-20-23	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, We are all aware that this virus is a very serious natural disaster, yet the rapid and dramatic impact it has had on the Hungarian economy shows that the globalised economic arrangement that is in the world is unsustainable. We, on the part of the LMP, believe that globalisation has taken too much of the powers of nation states and of local communities, and we would build the next economic model on more localisation and less globalisation. At the same time, we also know that the embodiment of localization is the nation state and that national culture is the most important symbol of this within the nation state. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said about national culture that the identity of a people and a civilization is mostly reflected and concentrated in culture. The fact is, despite this, for a completely incomprehensible reason, the government has launched an attack on cultural workers on the Easter weekend, against workers who have underpaid the memories of national culture for almost 30 years. The fact is that it is inexplicable why they only gave trade unions an Easter weekend to comment on the law on cultural workers, and then cynically, the Secretary of State could say that at Easter he had time to read to people, he was home at Easter. This is simply shameful, and Mr Black Secretary of State should be ashamed of it. The fact is that cultural workers have not received a real increase since 2010. In 2015, you promised to become a career model for cultural workers. It did, but only to the PIM, not to all the other cultural workers. However, the saddest thing about this law is that it takes cultural workers out of the civil servants' payroll, and so it is the second attack on the civil servant's payroll and civil servant's status. In the past, civil servants have been deprived of their status as professionals in vocational training. The essence of the status of civil servant is that it means protection from the market and does not allow market logic into a given area. We cannot allow market logic to culture, the guardians of national culture. We think that there is something that is not for sale, that national culture is not for sale. The thing is, a man who works in a public collection, someone who works in a museum or in a archives, can't live up to market conditions. Neoliberal is the argument of this law, as it says that efficiency must be brought into the cultural sector. Tell me, Secretary of State, how will an archivist, a museologist, be able to verify his effectiveness? ! Are there gonna be numbers on how many medieval degrees he's signed? What are you talking about? The thing is, these people are doing a job that we will be able to appreciate not today, not tomorrow, but 100-150 years from now. This work, which they are doing, I would have thought earlier that it is important for a government that calls itself a national government, and more important than that, when the epidemic causes public attention to be shifted, they will present a bill in order not to deal with it in Hungary. But cultural workers do, and these people will be avenged by the fact that they will leave their jobs, which will be suffered by the generation of our children and grandchildren. I go further: the fact that the status of civil servants is becoming less and less affected is a serious problem. Mr State Secretary, on a previous immediate question, when I asked him whether there would still be professions that would be removed from the status of civil servant, he did not answer. This is your chance again. Say on the record that KJT will not be emptied, that they will not launch a neoliberal campaign against the status of civil servant, say that they will protect the employees of the state and Hungarian civil servants, and that nation and nation-state rhetoric will not mean that they will allow the market into the territory of state workers! The thing is, I haven't heard one sane argument about why I had to do this now. I've never heard a sane argument about why this was meant to be. Give me at least one argument as to why you should launch this neoliberal attack on cultural workers yourself during the epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-24	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[13.50]]
u2020-04-20-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the countries' budgets tell us a lot about how important their national culture is. If you look around the countries of the European Union, you can see that EU countries spend on culture and national culture on average between 0.5 and 0.6 per cent of the budget compared to the total national product. Half percent, a little more in Hungary, that's 1.2 percent. So we spend more than twice as much on national culture here in Hungary, each year compared to the total national product, which is the EU average. And it certainly didn't start at that amount, honourable Member. If you look at the budgets of the previous years, you can see that the operating expenditure for cultural purposes has increased about two and a half times in the Hungarian budget. One of the greatest increases is thus seen here, and you can see that we have increased cultural resources year after year, precisely in order to strengthen national culture and not to replace a globalist culture based on consumption-based consumption-based identity, which is what mainstream advertising, mass media suggests to everyone, by developing your identity by what you buy, what you consume; we consider national culture to be important. It is also a talkative, honourable Member, about what some governments do with the salaries of those working in the cultural sphere during some difficult times, let us say, in times of crisis. When there was an economic crisis here in Hungary between 2006 and 2008, they reduced the salaries of cultural workers, and they also took away a monthly allowance, which means that their incomes were reduced by 8 percent annually. This year, on the other hand, we have tabled this amendment because we do not reduce it, not only to preserve it, but also to increase the salaries of the people working in the cultural sphere by 6 percent. And we submitted the bill that you are attacking to show that in a crisis, the way the previous government followed was not the right way to reduce the salaries of cultural workers, but to further increase the pay of cultural workers, and to maintain a high proportion compared to the total national product. In Hungary, the amount of funds that can be allocated to national culture is in the budget. And there is indeed a part of that, honourable Member, which is also contained in this bill, which you have referred to, because there is always a great debate about the fact that the civil servant pay table, which, by the way, has been largely passed over by real payments in the cultural sphere, is actually an advantage or disadvantage in the cultural sphere. Is it possible to deviate more from the wage limits set, an advantage or a disadvantage for the efficient operation of a cultural institution? We have also seen in vocational training that, in addition to a 30 per cent wage increase, a transfer of legal status can make Hungarian vocational training more advantageous, and we believe that it is also important to strengthen national culture that not only additional resources, not only increases in salaries, not only large investments, but also more freedom of legal constraints help to make better use of this additional resource for both wages and investments, and to strengthen culture in Hungary. We always see that in such cases, honourable Member, and it is clear that trade unions always object because they consider public employment law to be more advantageous than employee relations in terms of their institutional functioning as trade unions. So this is a trade union issue, a trade union issue, a question of survival, a question of self-certification, in which this is expressed, but, you know, it is also difficult to understand if a trade union in this case, when it comes to a wage increase parallel to a change of legal status, is opposed to this process when it comes to raising wages, only because such automatic permissions or opportunities of trade unions are reduced during this legal transition. So, honourable Member, if there is a country in Europe, and if we look at it all over the world, perhaps we can find little that considers its national culture so important, which is willing to engage in international conflicts when it comes to culture, if you look around Budapest or Hungary, if you look around from the building of Parliament, and if you look around Kossuth Square, walk towards the City Park, see the restored Liszt Academy, look at the further investments in Budapest or rural areas, from Skanzen, there are many other examples, theaters and cultural institutions are being renewed in the countryside, then you can see that there is indeed a kind of uplifting era in Hungarian national culture, also in additional support that we provide in the field of performing art. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which has not been the case in Hungary for generations, and that is what we want to continue with. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-26	Now it's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn.
u2020-04-20-27	A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister in this Chamber said that Hungary's bravest men were among you, among pro-government politicians. I don't know if that's true. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] But seeing the decisions of the past few weeks and their implementation, turning the lines of an old, well-known joke, I'd say they're not brave, they're blind. They're blind and irresponsible. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties.) I do not see any pro-government, government or expert analysis that would support the amazing decision that in a few weeks around 36,000 hospital beds were suddenly to be emptied. I don't see the reason for that. They say it's a medical decision. But the commanding general says that we're at war, and as I see it, in war, decisions are made not by the regiment doctors, but by the commanders. The final political responsibility of this decision lies with the government. You read the same thing we read. It is quite clear that even this kind of evacuation would not require this kind of evacuation in Belgium, where the number of infected and death rates is nearly ten times higher than that of the Hungarians. What the hell is going on? The only thing I can think of is what the head of the Fidesz faction of the Macedonian government may have written yesterday is why we complain anyway, most of the patients in there are parked there by families. Well, if that's what you think, it's a real problem. I don't think that's true. And if what your minister says is true is that only those who no longer need hospital care have been sent home, then the other question follows: then have there been at least 30,000 people in hospital beds who didn't need it? Is that how you manage it? Is this the expert in health and hospital management? What about them? What about the elderly who are left without professional care and care? Are the people at home, if anyone's at home, prepared for this? Does the Hungarian home care system provide sufficient support for these people? What can you do to help? In the meantime, work is needed, while not an elderly patient reported that she lives alone, no one cares for her. Tell me what's going to happen to them, and what's going to happen to the municipalities that are going to have a part of this responsibility falling over their heads, and from which only money has been taken, while giving them extra jobs? ! They're playing war, I understand that, but what kind of strategic planning is it when the Prime Minister announces today that they're expecting the peak of the epidemic to begin in May, and they're also saying at the same time that we're going to graduate for tens of thousands of children? Tell me, what is this? ! You probably know the Scriptures better than I do, but I do not think it is laid out in the Scriptures that if it breaks or breaks, graduation must be held at the beginning of May. Tell me, have you heard smart, reasoning, public dialogue with students' representatives, teachers' representatives, parents' representatives, what is the best solution in this extraordinary situation? They asked the universities how to say what would happen if the freshman year started when they were able to pass the entrance exam, not now, maybe later? What would happen if they did not endanger the health and life of tens of thousands of people? Why can't we, if we're always, always talking about how this is our business, make it a joint case? I accept and admit that in a difficult situation, quick and sometimes hard decisions have to be made. The Prime Minister has authority to do so. But the possibility and responsibility of this decision does not justify and does not allow us to consult widely with those who are affected by it, the nation, the experts, the stakeholders. This is how it should be done for the country, I think. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]] [[14.00]]
u2020-04-20-28	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-04-20-29	[[No sound.]] Dear Chief of Staff, Based on the experience of the past few weeks, we can say that.... [[He's pinning his microphone.]] Excuse me. Based on the experience of the past few weeks, we can say that Hungary has taken action in its time and has detected the severity of the epidemic in its time. I also believe that the restrictive measures were taken in good time, otherwise in consultation with experts. For example, Mr Group Leader, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on the day when we have the operational tribe, including experts, the European Union's epidemiology centre held that the likelihood of further transmission from man to man is very low or low. So much for who's leaning on experts and who's unconscious in time. This also has a positive effect, because we have managed to slow down the spread of the epidemic. Not only do we say it, but also the local head of the World Health Organization says that Hungary managed to manage it in order to avoid the exponential growth of the epidemic. It also says that we have lower indicators than others in terms of diseases. Not only do we say it, but also the local head of the World Health Organization. Nevertheless, the hard part is still ahead of us, but we can say one thing: we have gained time, and those who gain time in this situation also gain life, and that is because we have used this time to prepare health care. We've seen the footage from Italy and Spain. Well, that's what we need to avoid with all our strength. This is therefore served by shipments of protective equipment, and is also served by the purchase of ventilators. And as far as the issue of hospital beds is concerned, although I see that you are deliberately causing panic and, in many cases, referring to anonymous requests, you know that this measure is for preparation. You've seen the recordings in Italy. Well, that's what we have to avoid. What we need to avoid is that hospital patients in serious condition are not given the necessary care. I would also like to quote the local head of the World Health Organisation, who says that Hungary is doing very well to ensure maximum hospital capacity in case of need! We can't get there, but we still have to see ahead. In any case, I'm sure that if there weren't enough hospital beds under these circumstances, the left-wing opposition parties, from Jobbik to you. [[Moore from Jobbik's benches.]] until the Dialogue, they'd protest in a crowded line of protests. Dear Chief of Staff, By the way, your criticism of health is always heard with respect, but let us add a few things to that. If it were up to you, it would have been up to you personally, then health care would be paying off now. Then that means that every patient with a coronary virus and a suspected coronary virus should be in their pocket right now. What could happen, by the way, in the current epidemic situation, as in Spain, is where the institutions in private hands have withdrawn from care at the beginning of the privatisations. They're totally shutting themselves out! If you're talking about hospital beds, let me tell you right here, you've cleared 16,000 hospital beds. And then they refer to the hospital beds. What a hypocrite! 6,000 medical workers were put on the street and forints 650 billion were withdrawn from health care. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Shame!]] And when they got away with it, where was that vast compassion of theirs? ! What you're referring to now? As far as their economic proposals are concerned, we also have these: we respectfully thank you, but no offense, when we are not informed on the basis of your compass. That's because it's always somehow, always in the direction of austerity: wage cuts, redundancies, privatisations, IMF loans, this is your crisis-management cocktail, we saw before 2010. There's no way we'd recommend it to the country right now. And one more thing to conclude, because if I recall correctly, you referred to the financial situation of the municipalities. If the left were really concerned about the financial situation of the municipalities, they would not conclude contracts with Csaba Czeglédy's office in these circumstances, worth tens of millions of forints. If there's money for that, there's money for protection. It's time for you to finally get into the fight against the epidemic. But if you're not willing to do that, then at least don't interfere with those who are doing it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-30	Now it's time for Mr. Bertalan Tóth to take over. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My question is with respect to the members of the government sitting here, that they have ever nursed their ill relatives. Do you know what it's like to change a serious patient, move it when every move hurts? And know what that means in a family's life, without any proper experience, without skill or means. If you had any idea, you wouldn't be looking at the numbers, not the battle plan, or, as you put it, a war test, or I don't know what they would have done, they would have been watching the man, and they wouldn't have put thousands of people out of hospitals, as you claim, 11 thousand of them. Did it ever occur to you, my fellow Members, that if the national capitalists had built so many hotels here and you now wanted to spend 600 billion forints on renovation, repair, and perhaps not open these hotels, you would not have been able to solve the care of these sick people there. You refer to sound medical decisions, professional proposals, sending people home, lying that no one will be left unattended, and firing doctors who refuse to carry out this order. However, there are stacks of protective equipment in the warehouses, and you can barely get protective gloves, and you can barely get access to it. I've told you many times that I'm doing volunteer work in Pécs, and I'm taking food to old people who are scared, and who, when they take over the food or take over the money they're getting back, they're putting bread bags on their hands. Well, where do we know now, in the warehouses, why can't this protective equipment get at least to older people, to people over 65? And I can tell you more about these measures that you have planned. It has already been said that they are awaiting the peak of the epidemic on May 3rd, early May. In comparison, graduations will be launched on 4 May, not to mention the vocational exams or the tech exams. There's no specific information at all. It simply doesn't make sense, if you announce the peak of the epidemic, then why do you want to bring the teachers and students together? They treat Austria as an experimental lab, but they do not want or are not able to take over their successful actions. There is no mass testing, no free mask, no normal wage support; there are public relations videos, where the prime minister dressed in a suit goes to hospitals, raids, as he called it, but you can only see protective equipment on the prime minister. They give responsibility and responsibilities to the municipalities for their defence, but rather they hinder their work, distract their revenues. One of the local authorities in Pest County makes work and defence significantly difficult. Why are they acting like this? Why don't they come to their senses? Why not start a real fight against the virus and its consequences? Ladies and gentlemen, Week after week, we're sitting in Parliament talking about how your kissers, friends, and oligarchs want to get a greasy assignment, how they want to get them to real estate. It is no longer possible to make specific proposals, nor is it included in the committees. This is not a fight against the virus! But I'll give you some advice. First of all, we don't need to protect the warehouses. We need to protect the people. Get the tools to the people. Secondly, normal health care must be reorganized and started because it has not been working properly since practically 16 March. Thirdly, it is necessary to extend the care fee to caregivers who are now sent home from hospitals, to receive a special care fee, to help their work, if not with information, at least financially. Fourthly, those in contact with customers should receive sufficient protective equipment and receive a double payment as a hazard supplement. Social workers also deserve a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000. Fifthly, it is necessary to prevent the financial impossibility of workers and their families, not too late. Put a ban on dismissal in the public sector and multinational companies and give 80% of the workers' wages because jobs are lost [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And tragedy is coming. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you very much. [[14.10]]
u2020-04-20-32	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-04-20-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I very much welcome you to the meeting of the Parliament, although you, opposition representatives, CNN and Brussels bureaucrats have also said that the Hungarian Parliament has not met for the fourth week, but we are still here to continue the work. Honourable Congressman, You asked me a question in the beginning, and let me ask you a question. If your relative was in the hospital, and you were close to a coronal virus epidemic, would you risk staying in a hospital where there is no obvious need for hospital treatment, not at the same level, but, say, in another building or other building level, there are patients with a coronal virus? It was clear in the government, operational tribal expectation that a person in need of hospital care should continue to receive hospital care. Who needs hospital care and who doesn't, obviously, is not decided by the government, the operational tribe, Parliament or any politician, but by the treating doctor, the doctors working in the department, the hospital decides who needs care and who doesn't. It is a mistake for a person who needs care to get out of the hospital, because everyone who needs hospital treatment must continue to stay in hospitals and continue to be treated there. You know that about 15 percent of the capacity is the one that was used a few weeks ago, but it's still necessary to control the coronal virus. Honourable Congressman, Exactly how many hospital beds you're gonna need, everyone can only estimate how many beds you're gonna need to add to your calculations. No one can say exactly that ten, twenty or thirty thousand beds will be needed in two, three, four or five weeks. There are scripts. Some of them count lower beds, some higher beds. If you take government responsibility, how can you say you're not counting on the scenario that scientists, doctors, mathematicians have calculated and have the highest capacity requirement? How can it be done with political responsibility that we say that we are not dealing with the highest, but with the third highest, because we are overwriting the work of scientists, doctors, mathematicians who have done similar calculations in the case of ebola or other epidemics? The responsible decision is to try to meet the highest standards of the models, but we trust in it, and of course we are working to prevent all patients with coronal viruses requiring hospitalisation on these beds, but it is not possible to say responsibly that we are not releasing as much as possible. The limit to this is that, indeed, those in need of treatment must continue to be treated in hospitals. In order not to upset the management of hospitals, we have introduced base funding to ensure that hospitals do not decline because of freed beds, but to maintain their ability to function, and to provide complete financial security for patients with possible coronal viruses. In order to be flexible in the system, within the county, we have given hospitals the possibility of coordination so that one of them can free up more beds because it provides a type of patient population, and the other one needs less freedom because it provides that type of patient population. So it is possible not to transfer patients from hospital to hospital, but to transfer patients between hospitals within the county, and also beds in order to make the system more flexible, at the same time to provide the worst-case number, the number of patients with a coronal virus disease, and at the same time to provide complete safety for patients who are currently in the area. Dear Chief of Staff, You've been saying for weeks that the government hasn't taken action to have protective equipment, masks and other protective equipment. We told you here in Parliament that we did. After that, they said they didn't actually show up, there were measures, but the warehouses were empty. Then they went to the warehouses and saw that the warehouses weren't empty, but that there really were protective equipment, and that you guys always moved on one by one. And please take into account the government's determination to prepare for a long defense here, and we must not only plan these protective equipment for tomorrow, but also one, and perhaps two months later, and still have enough equipment. They must be distributed primarily to health workers, hospitals, law enforcement workers and other strategic sectors, and then to everyone else, honourable Member. I'm telling you, you have to think long-term about these things, so you can't hand them all out tomorrow. Let me also draw your attention to the fact that you have told me many times that in Hungary there is the highest death rate, the number of people heard per million is 20.4 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We didn't fit into the first twenty-five because Belgium, Spain, Italy, but America, Slovenia, Norway, Denmark, Germany and many other countries are ahead of us...
u2020-04-20-34	Mr. Secretary, your time is up. Please stop.
u2020-04-20-35	...so it wasn't real. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-36	Thank you. The word now belongs to Peter James.
u2020-04-20-37	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Anyone who has experienced an economic crisis as an employee knows very well that the most painful feeling is uncertainty, fear, fear of what tomorrow will bring, my job, I can pay the bill, I can buy the daily bread. Where there's a child at the house, obviously these are even more tortured questions. Fellow Members, thanks to your inaction, the whole country is slowly living on the brink of insecurity. Here almost every European country, every European government, created its own economic rescue package as quickly as possible, because they knew very well that every day that was wasted would result in ruined lives, job losses, broken families. Wherever possible, governments have taken over between 70 and 80 percent of the total labour costs of workers to save jobs. Where are we? We are concerned that the Hungarian government may take over 70% of half the employees' salary from May, but this is also subject to such a narrow set of conditions that so many people are not able to make use of this assistance. For example, if a company is forced to stop completely somewhere, this company will receive exactly zero forints to save jobs. Colleagues, this is gonna be a huge problem. Here, 80 percent of the total labour costs of workers will have to be passed on to all companies in difficulty, because if you cannot protect Hungarian jobs, you will cause hundreds of thousands of human tragedies. You have always wanted to protect this country from something since 2010 [[Interviews from the ruling parties: from you. And you guys don't.]] The Soros Plan, Brussels, the migrants, but I beg you, why don't you want to protect this country from poverty? This is what awaits our country. This is what awaits this country, and now we do not need historical announcements, because there are eight of them per week. No! Actions are needed, fellow Members, and a strong social net is needed that will not let anyone fall into the abyss. At a time when your estimates of 4,000-4500 people losing their jobs every day should have asked the question long ago, by which time three months of unemployment benefits would be enough. I'm telling you, nothing. It is quite difficult to expect people to interview for jobs in the middle of a pandemic and to be able to find a successful job within three months. So in this situation, the duration of the benefit should be extended from 90 days to 270 days and the amount should be increased. And it's not free money, as you say. No. In an emergency, the benefit is a symbol of national solidarity, a symbol of the fact that we Hungarians do not let our countryman's hand go in trouble. It's the same with families. Because of school closures, many parents who are forced to stay at home with their children have lost a significant share of their income. If not at any other time, at least now, in the event of an emergency, the amount of the family allowance must be increased. Because it is very gratifying that you are making it possible to buy state-supported large family cars in times of crisis. Bravo, colleagues. It's just that there's a bit of a delay, because now it's not the car at stake, it's the bread and the fact that the head of the family lost his job can pay the bill. As a result of the loan repayment moratorium, an account moratorium should have been introduced a long time ago in order not to happen, let's say, with the summer approaching, that they couldn't turn on the fridge somewhere, because the service provider turned off the power. They cannot imagine how many pensioners approached us by deciding to buy food or pay the bill and obviously choose food. So they thank you very much for getting an extra week's pension next year, only they need help now, now we need a pension increase, let's say a differentiated pension increase. And speaking of pensioners, we, the good guys, would like to make a suggestion to the government. Colleagues, allow our fellow countrymen over the age of 60 who lose their jobs because of the epidemic to stop being unemployed to retire them. That would be fair to them in this situation, and it would not be to bring them into line at 61 years of age in front of the employment centre. Consider this proposal. And finally, consider something else. The more money we put into health care now, the faster we'll get through this. In order to strengthen the sector, immediate and substantial wage increases are needed. [[14.20]] The union has made the extent of this clear; it has been said that an immediate 100 percent increase is needed in the health and social sectors, because otherwise, if these two sectors collapse, the country will collapse. Colleagues, you couldn't save the jobs, but we can still save the people. This requires two things: strong health care and a strong social network. Let's create it now, before it's too late. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-38	I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2020-04-20-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, We have to fight against the world epidemic on several fronts, of course, and we have already talked about one of these fronts quite a lot here, this is the health area where we have made it clear to you that there is enough protective equipment available to enable Hungarian health workers to perform effectively the work related to the care of infected people. We have also told you that through proper restructuring we have created the hospital capacity to provide patients who may need hospitalisation at the peak of the epidemic. Prime Minister S has already announced what additional benefits Hungarian health workers can expect. You have also spoken relatively much about the economic front. Allow me, by staying on the ground of the facts, to underline that we have launched the most important economic development action plan in Hungarian economic history. However, I would also like to tell you, honourable Member, that it is a fraud to say that in other countries more robust economic development programmes have been launched. I am listening here from week to week to my fellow opposition Members about why budget subsidies for shorter working hours are higher abroad than in Hungary. That is not true, that is not exactly true, because the measures introduced must not only be read the first line of action, honourable Members, but must be read through the legislation. It is easy to throw numbers here that the Czechs and Slovaks, and even to say how much Romanians give and we give so much. Now, if we gave so much, the Hungarian economy would be in a very difficult situation, because it is necessary to read how many pages below the maximum amount in the first row are classified, and then, on the basis of those restrictive conditions, that certain amount falls back to the proportion, and how small is the segment of the economy where the budget support can then be taken up. Dear Chief of Staff, I would like to inform you that we provide a total of HUF 9200 billion in economic protection, with HUF 2000 billion of preferential loans available to Hungarian companies, with HUF 500 billion of Hungarian state guarantees. Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, There has been an economic philosophical debate here, within the walls of Parliament and outside the walls of Parliament, about what is the right economic policy direction, whether we should focus on creating and protecting jobs, or whether we should give as much aid as possible to the economy. Dear Chief of Staff, I am of the view that this debate is justified in these particularly difficult times, and the correct answer in this debate, too, in these particularly difficult times, is to focus on protecting and creating jobs. You are constantly demanding that we extend the time of aid and increase the amount of aid. But why do they not demand that we create new jobs and protect the current ones? That is the position that we, our honourable fellow Members, are taking. The support scheme that is available to Hungarian companies and, in the case of shortened working hours, the State enters as a second player, who pays the employee, is an instrument that the vast majority of Hungarian companies can use. But you'd be right to say that it's not enough if that's the only measure we've got. At the same time, we will reduce the social contribution tax by another 2 percent, while we will be able to grant investment promotion aid up to EUR 800 000 without any kind of EU investigation, with half of the value now invested by companies being paid by the state, the budget from Hungarian national sources in cash, and this week we launched the preferential credit schemes under which small and medium-sized enterprises can borrow 0.1 per cent of the current asset loan needed to survive within a year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This, on the whole, Mr honourable Member, Mr Group leader, provides for the possibility of protecting jobs and creating new ones. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-40	I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2020-04-20-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is clear that we are still living in extraordinary times, which would require political parties to switch to another operation, so let's put our debates aside, and let's all help defend ourselves the way we can. The opposition representatives are also well aware that in a democracy this does not mean that the opposition cannot make proposals or even criticisms about the disease control, but that, in view of the situation, it should do so on the basis of the Hungarian national interest, in the interest of cooperation. However, we regret that the opposite has happened. Instead of cooperation, the left is practically attacking every step, plan and action of the government and the authorities and trying to make it impossible. The clear experience of the past three weeks is that you have chosen a policy of total confrontation rather than cooperation, which is, of course, possible in a democracy, but I would just like to draw the attention of opposition representatives that their party-driven operation is in opposition to the Hungarian national interests in the present situation. But their souls on it, the voters will decide whether they want to support this policy or not. However, when we listen to your accusations, even here today, we cannot go without saying one thing: since October 13, there have been many cities, districts where the electorate has put the responsibility of leadership in your hands. Let's see what kind of decisions you've made on the epidemic. On the basis of the left-wing crisis management recipe, for example, in Óbuda, the DK mayor decides in the middle of the epidemic that the tenants of municipal housing will now have to pay the common cost. Instead of helping, they put additional burdens on the shoulders of the locals. Péter Niedermüller, DK VII. His district mayor gives Ferenc Gyurcsány 50 million forints to his friend, Csaba Czeglédy, the tax cheater, with a ridiculous justification. I think it's outrageous anyway, and it's probably embarrassing on the other side of the parliamentary horseshoe, but especially when opposition mayors keep saying they're taking away their resources. I guess there's still room for buddy contracts. But let's look at the decisions of the capital led by Gergely Christmas. The Lord Mayor has thinned the BKK's flights when, due to the decline in the number of contacts, the opposite was needed, but he did not introduce free parking, claiming that this would cause chaos in Budapest. The government has made this decision, there's no chaos, the system is working. And then there is the home of the elderly on the capital city of Pest. According to today's official statements, it is clear that when the virus was already in the institution, there was no full-time doctor for more than a week, for ten days, with every seventh confirmed infected in Hungary in this nursing home. And the mayor of this matter is trying to shift responsibility from action to action. At the same time, in the middle of the epidemiological situation, Gergely Christmas does not, by decree, miss the appointment of Imre Rusnák as a board member of a capital company who fell in the parking place of the Demszky-éra, and it was so unpleasant for our fellow MSZP Members to be expelled from the party. And while we are at the opposition, let us also talk about style, because a few days ago, a former DK representative, who is politicalizing in the Momentum, was about to draw the Fidesz and KDNP representatives on a lamp iron yesterday. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Shame on you!]] Even in peacetime, it's tasteless, let alone now. There was no consequence, of course. [[14.30]] All in all, we can therefore say that there are quite a number of outrageous decisions or a gross mistake in the opposition's leading place in relation to the epidemiological measures. The opposition's certificate on this basis is not very bright, which would justify restraint. But if that is no longer the case, we would like to ask you to stop making unfounded accusations during this period and to do everything you can to help fight the virus. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-42	Once again, the Minister has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last ten years, Hungary has faced an ongoing attack by the international liberal mainstream. In 2010, when the Hungarian people chose a national-based patriot government, the international liberal mainstream could not forgive it. He could not forgive the fact that at that time we started to escape the crisis with an economic policy based on our own national interest, which freed the economy from the IMF loan and based on tax reductions. Then, in 2015, when the European institutions in Brussels were constantly trying to force the compulsory resettlement quota on us and pressure all European countries to accept the masses of illegal immigrants, taking on security and cultural risks, Hungary still faced mainstream. They obviously can't forgive us for that either. Ladies and gentlemen, In each major international debate, when Hungary, the Hungarian government, puts the interests of the Hungarian people first and makes appropriate decisions, we are faced with the same series of false attacks, without any facts at all. Remember, a few weeks ago, when we adopted the Crown Virus Act between the walls of this House, then the international press was swarming with false allegations, and liberal politicians throughout Europe and the world were playing sport by categorizing the Crown Virus Act, and then, through it, the state of Hungarian democracy. We could read everything here, endless mandate, unlimited mandate, non-meeting parliament. Then, one by one, these accusations turned out to be false: Parliament meets, and Parliament itself can decide when the emergency will end. It also turned out to be clear, at least to our accusers, that the mandate to create regulations empowers the government to adopt regulations that are necessary for the health and economic aspect of anti-epidemic control. At the same time, it has become clear that all the municipalities in Hungary, among which we can find politicians belonging to the opposition, are constantly making decisions that are obviously affected by a meeting of the general meeting, let us say, in a normal period of operation, not in this way or not so quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, we have heard that in Europe alone, in Hungary, Parliament has passed a law that does not contain a specific date for the extraordinary situation or, as we call it, for the end of the emergency. That's a lie, that's not factually true, that's false news. There are still three countries in the European Union where similar legislation has been adopted by the national Parliament. In fact, there are four other countries in the European Union where the government alone can decide to extend the originally defined emergency or emergency situation without consulting Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us not be naive, we will face serious attacks on a political basis in the coming weeks and months. Of course, these attacks will have no factual basis whatsoever. Those who make these attacks and accusations will not take the trouble to argue with us on the basis of facts, and we have seen a sign of this in Parliament today. We also need to be prepared for some to get to the point of being cowardly, sneaky Nazis. These must always be rejected as strongly as possible and asked for by ourselves; especially since these people who accuse us have not yet acquired one protective equipment, they have not acquired one mask, and they have not acquired one respirator. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The state budget...]] As long as it doesn't happen [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Until then, all we have to say to our accusers and attackers is that we ask for more modesty. [[György Balla: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-44	Erik Bánki will make his final statement before today's last agenda. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now clear that as a result of the corona virus pandemic, all countries are facing more serious consequences than the financial and economic crisis in 2009-2010. Many international analysts, many Nobel Prize-winning economists, have described over the past few weeks that there are unpredictable consequences that could bring the world into such a serious economic crisis that not only justifies the use of a number of instruments that have not yet been used in national defence, but also means that many countries will fail to cope with this task. In Hungary, we have already seen in 2008-2009 the consequences of a failed economic policy, a misled country, for society as a whole, when the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai, instead of taking economic recovery measures, raised taxes, contributions and took 13 months' wages from the public sector, health workers, and took 13 months' pensions from pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, In the words of the Minister, I would like to expect more modesty from opposition representatives myself at a time when criticisms about the government are being made. What has the government been doing these past few weeks? It has taken a number of measures and decisions that allow small, medium-sized and large companies in Hungary to keep as many jobs as possible with wage subsidies despite the exceptional situation, with loans that can not only obtain working assets and keep stocks, but also launch improvements in different sectors. In addition, we have naturally taken all other measures that are market-specific and market-enhancing, such as the tax and contribution reductions that are already unique in Europe, which will, of course, be reduced by 2 percent this year, thanks to the agreement of trade unions representing employees, employers and the government, for six years. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that the economic policy instruments used by the Hungarian government in this extraordinary situation are not only extraordinary in themselves, but they also stand their ground in international comparison. We are not only at the forefront of the fight against the virus, the closure of borders, the introduction of curfew restrictions or the release of health facilities and the acquisition of machinery and equipment in Europe, but we have also taken among the first economic policy measures to keep jobs, and in sectors where it is inevitable that jobs will disappear, as the whole sector has stopped, whether in terms of tourism or catering, and there we can restart the economy as quickly as possible, as early as the autumn, we can take advanced steps to create new jobs in the field of tourism, for example. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, once again confirming that, in a special situation, special decisions must be taken. Tax and contribution reductions must be made and the 13th month pension taken from them by the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments must be returned to pensioners. In four years, we will create the possibility that the situation and livelihood of pensioners will be significantly improved again in Hungary. Meanwhile, the protection of families will remain a priority for us, and, as I said, we will do everything we can to ensure that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, large domestic companies, are able to launch improvements as quickly as possible. [[14.40]] It is also unique that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has adopted a EUR 3000 billion stimulus package, first of all, ahead of and memorizing the European Central Bank, and thus also preventing measures by the central bank of the United States. They have the potential to boost the economy that will enable us to minimise the crisis, the losses caused by the economic crisis, and to re-launch as quickly as possible. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the Government in every step, to support us, as well as the pro-government representatives, in order to bring about the broadest possible parliamentary cooperation in economic policy decisions that are inevitable for Hungarian society. So I'm asking you, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Let's work together, not just in words, but also in action. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-46	Once again, Minister Péter Szijjártó has the floor.
u2020-04-20-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, a strategic decision had to be taken. At the time, the Hungarian government decided to focus on job creation and tax cuts, and we also started to implement an economic policy strategy that helped the economy grow at the same time, while at the same time allowing fiscal financial discipline to be maintained. The latter is particularly important in times of crisis. After all, crises and difficult situations always give people with bad intentions the opportunity to call it speculators in the literature to launch attacks on one country, one economy and one currency. In recent years, we have seen many of these attacks, and in recent years we have experienced these attacks more than once. It is therefore extremely important that our strategy for economic growth and job creation is a strategy that maintains budgetary and financial discipline and prevents any attempts to attack. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last ten years, the Hungarian economy, the performance of the Hungarian people, has produced results that we have achieved in ten years that we have been able to show the fastest economic growth rate of the European Union in the last year, and we have also said that while 1.8 million taxpayers were required to survive in 2010 for the operation of Hungary, 4.5 million people are now working and 4.5 million people are paying taxes in Hungary. Of course, the pandemic is drawing up a completely new global economy map. And this global economy, a completely new global economy map, puts the world's national economies, including the Hungarian economy, in a completely new situation. In such cases, there is, of course, the temptation to take the easy looking, but in the long term, extremely dangerous route for a government; to base the policy of so-called recovery from the crisis in Hungarian, or to decide to refocus jobs instead of aid, to protect jobs in danger, and to create at least as many new jobs as are in danger or to cease because of the economic difficulties caused by the pandemic. We have chosen this latter policy, ladies and gentlemen, so in this extremely difficult situation, in the context of the pandemic, we are focusing on keeping jobs and creating new ones. I respectfully inform you that the European Union has not agreed, i.e. it has approved our economic development programme, in which we can grant up to 50 per cent of the investment value up to EUR 800 000 to companies implementing new investments in these circumstances. And on 20 April, we will begin its notification, i.e. the approval procedure for an investment promotion programme in Brussels, which will enable investment to create jobs and retain jobs in Hungary over 800 thousand euros. In addition, I respectfully inform you that Hungarian companies that are seriously competitive in international markets should not forget that Hungary has the 10th most open economy in the world, so much about our shut-in, and that Hungarian export performance is equal to 85.6% of GDP, so that Hungarian companies that are seriously competitive in international markets will be supported through Eximbank through three programmes, where, on the one hand, they will receive loans with extremely low interest rates, in which we will be able to replace the new conditions now imposed by commercial banks with guarantees, and that they will not have to add any additional funds to Hungarian companies, or that we will be able to bridge up to 365 days' delay in order for Hungarian companies to retain their position on international markets. This economic protection plan, my fellow Members, will be able to protect Hungarian jobs and create at least as many new jobs as are at risk during this difficult period. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-48	Dear fellow Members, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-04-20-49	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes László, LMP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Z. Dániel Karpát, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Erik Fülöp, independent; Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Sándor Székely, independent. Sándor Burány, Dialogue; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Ágnes Vadai, DK; László Szakács, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; György Lukács, Jobbik; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP.
u2020-04-20-50	Dear House, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Present: 164; away: 35.]] Thank you. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's agenda be added to the proposal for a political declaration on the restoration of Hungary's population representation system thirty years ago as the last item on Monday, April 27, 2020 and the final vote be held on Saturday, 2 May 2020. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please also vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Coming up next - Article 50 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation T/9915 on the publication of the Protocol amending Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Protocol on the publication of the Protocol amending Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. So I ask this House to accept T/9915. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill by 170 votes in favour. [[14.50]] Now, at 2:50 p.m., we move on to the immediate questioning. [[Some of the MEPs leave the room, some of them leave their seats and talk standing up.]] I would ask the honourable Members that those who are not interested in the genre should please either sit down or leave the room, but do so quietly, if I may ask them. We'd like to continue our work. Dear House, Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. The Prime Minister has commissioned Minister Peter Szijjártó to respond. I ask the congressman to accept the response.
u2020-04-20-51	Thank you, I'll wait another week.
u2020-04-20-52	Thank you. On behalf of Jobbik, Mr Ádám Steinmetz would also like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Péter Szijjártó is also the designated responder. I'm asking if you'll take it.
u2020-04-20-53	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-04-20-54	I now call on Mr László György Lukács, who wishes to ask a question to the Minister of Human Resources, who will take his place in seconds, and I will give the floor to the Member.
u2020-04-20-55	I'll be patient.
u2020-04-20-56	Thank you. [[Dr. Miklós Kásler enters the room and takes his place.]] I would like to ask Mr László György Lukács to restore his time. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Well, it makes it look like you're about to do something important. If I didn't know you were out of your sermon, I'd think you were preparing for your eulogy. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Believe me, there would be people who would welcome this, not just here, but on that side of the horseshoe, seeing the performance of the past period. But, Minister, let us get to the important questions and answers to them, questions that are first and foremost in the middle of the epidemic. The first of these is: I ask you, as one of the most responsible ministers, as the Minister for Health, that you would support a mandatory masking rule for all in Hungary, according to which the state would provide the mask to citizens, thus protecting each other, and, in the end, protecting the burden-bearing capacity of health care and ultimately, the lives of people. On the other hand, I would like to ask you your personal position and your portfolio's position on the fact that you consider the 500 thousand forints that you want to spend on paying healthcare workers. Wouldn't it be more forward-looking to bring the 20 percent planned this year forward immediately and bring the 30 percent planned next year forward to August 1st? On the other hand, I'd like to ask you why you had to fire the two hospital directors you've been releasing for the past week. Is it because you fear for your own emptiness, and you don't want them to be rivals or your successors? But what you need to know is that it weakens the defense, so maybe you can see through this situation. And I'd like to ask you what you're going to say to those who object to this firing, such as Zsolt Bayer, who is a well-known figure in Fidesz. For example, Zsolt Bayer said that you fired Péter Cserháti: "It was inexplicable, at the same time profoundly unnecessary and harmful. Mr. Minister, what is your position on this? [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-04-20-58	I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-59	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your kind questions. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The first question is how I feel about wearing a mask. It's the same as the WHO, and it's the same thing that we apply in Hungary from the first moment until this moment. I took note of the HUF 500,000 amount allocated to health care workers with satisfaction. Obviously, health care workers, especially in the present situation, exerting their strength, often work heroically, which can not be paid with money. I never thought that the work of health professionals could only be expressed with money, including respect for society and recognition of their work. You asked me about two hospital directors. One hospital director did not review the central instructions, and consequently did not report on six deceased in good time. In the case of the other hospital director, the implementation of the provisions of the Centre for Public Health has not been implemented. On 17 March, they were instructed to prepare 253 beds from 422 to receive infected patients and to provide 189 beds for those in need. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] On Friday... I'm sorry, it's over! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's Parliament!]] I'll continue then, yes. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-60	Now again, the congressman will be here in a minute.
u2020-04-20-61	Thank you very much for your reply. I would have liked to have heard more, since you are a rare guest in this House. But the way I see it, it was a crime of these medical directors: that they didn't want to send patients home, as you planned, so they had to leave their jobs. Believe me, Minister, because you're one of the greatest doctors in recent decades, I'm not sure what you're saying is true, so it would be better to take it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] What people and your medical director and hospital director say and what they say. And while we're here, let me also signal to you and ask you what you think about kicking patients out of the hospital after hospital managers and sending home patients who are often unable to care for their relatives, because they shouldn't be looking after them, but health care. Mr. Secretary. This will be your responsibility, too. Orbán also asked for unlimited authorization, and he will have unlimited responsibility for everything, but you will also be taken out for this. Stop it! [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The question is, when are they gonna stop sending patients home unattended? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-04-20-62	Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-20-63	In the case of the second hospital, on Friday, when the paramedics took the patients from the nursing home by tens, this institution was willing to hire zero patients for this explanation. What anyone thinks about this, Zsolt Bayer or anyone else, is his conscience. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] I have no comment on what he suggested in the second part, a political hack campaign, and he gave me the answer himself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-64	Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. [[Dr. Miklós Kásler is leaving the room.]] [[Attila Mesterházy rises to speak, begins to speak, but his microphone is not on.]] The congressman's mic isn't on, but he wants to wait for the Prime Minister's personal presence, as I understand it. [[Attila Mesterházy nods.]] Thank you. I am asking Mr Tamás Harangozó, who also wants to ask the Prime Minister a question to wait for him or to accept the appointed Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2020-04-20-65	I'll wait, thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-66	Thank you. Then Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-20-67	Well, I have to say, after a few months, after the Minister of Health comes to work, he goes to Parliament. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] we would have thought that you would have waited not only for one Member but also for the rest of our health and epidemic questions. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But I have to say, Minister, you acted like a coward, and after a question, you left the room. [[15.00]] Last week Minister Péter Szijjártó said here in Parliament, and I quote, "Where are they?" I respectfully inform you that it is worth asking first and that we are happy to answer. From these aircraft, when they land in Budapest, the medical protection equipment will be transferred to the central warehouse of the State Healthcare Services Centre after customs duties at the airport and subsequently distributed between hospitals and clinics. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Me and my two fellow Members, Lajos Korózs and Tamás Harangozó, visited the supply centre in quotes, and we were shocked to see that the number of tons was correct. There's protective equipment in the warehouse. According to last Friday's data, there are 44,000 rapid tests in the warehouse, 118,700 rapid tests in hospitals. Péter Szijjártó said today that 400,000 rapid tests were delivered to Hungary up to last week. Where's more than half? Why do you keep these protective equipment in storage for several weeks? What we see from signals, doctors, nurses, health workers, social workers is that they do not receive the necessary equipment to this day, and even the public does not get it. Then answer the question, Minister, you said we could ask why the hell they're saving it in warehouses for weeks and they're not protecting people's health. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-04-20-68	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-04-20-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If we quote you from the past few weeks, you have claimed that these are fictitious equipment, they do not exist; that this is a huge fake; that it must be empty boxes and empty warehouses; and that you will go there and expose it well, and that you will live on Facebook and show that there is no equipment of any kind. In the past, it was even denied that the government had made any efforts to obtain them. Then they got there and faced with reality, there is nothing more shocking for a left-wing liberal politician than the reality itself, which is what really punches them in the nose, and they saw how Hungary, a country of ten million, could indeed obtain protective equipment, honourable Member. And they run ahead, and they said that the entire stock should be distributed immediately in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Nowhere does the epidemic disappear overnight, in either country, neither in Asia, Europe, nor in America, but in a very long defense, where health care workers must be protected in the first place, law enforcement workers, patients, those who work in the front line and even struggle, we can say, and then we can talk about any other division. That's why there's a very, very well-defined order here that says we're gonna get these protective equipment and hand it out. Anyone who needs this because their health is in danger or endangers others, because he is infected, everyone in Hungary gets it. And I'm not just saying this, and we're not just saying it here in the government, but the WHO, the World Health Organization, is saying it, both in terms of protective equipment and tests. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He said that Ledia Lazeri, the office manager of WHO in Hungary, and also in a left-wing medium that Hungary is doing enough coronal virus testing and that the screening is effective. He says WHO thinks it's optimal for a patient to get ten tests for a confirmed infection. In Hungary, 30 tests are available for a certified infection. So the WHO said that our indicators are three times better than the WHO's expectations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-70	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. In return, I give the floor to the congresswoman... excuse me, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-71	[[No sound.]] Yeah, because we dealt with the immediate question together. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Microphone!]]
u2020-04-20-72	You can't hear it, Congressman. Just a moment, please. I need your help. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Because Bangón is written! A hand microphone is placed in front of Lajos Korózs.]] A try, maybe?
u2020-04-20-73	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary of State hasn't answered why the protective equipment has been in the mountains there for weeks. I said it's been weeks! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You said you didn't! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó to Nacsa Lőrinc wearing the mask: The point is that you have one!]] It is not how many pieces there are, because no one has ever been able to say; it is not that we asked a question and could not answer anything there; it is not that we do not now receive healthcare workers, workers in the social sector, but that every government official speaking in this House has lied last week. First they said he couldn't be in a private company, and then it turned out he was at Waberer S. They said that everything is distributed in health care facilities is not true. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Of course it's true!]] They said that all the equipment is distributed to the social services system, not in nursing homes. It looks like Sándor Sára's movie, in the Firefire, that the soldiers in the Don turn froze and died by thousands, while the equipment was in the warehouses. That's exactly the case.
u2020-04-20-74	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-04-20-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, So you criticized the fact that in Hungary there really are mountains of protective equipment in the warehouse, which we can use in the next few weeks and months, and criticized that Hungary has already acquired so many protective equipment that cannot fit in the public warehouses, which is why we have placed these protective equipment in separate warehouses, because there are already so many in Hungary. [[Nacsa Lawrence, pointing his thumb up: Bravo!]] This would certainly not have happened in your case, honourable Member, but in our case this has happened. Don't make false claims. For hospitals and social institutions, the necessary quantity will be delivered from all protective equipment. Usually we tried to deliver it to hospitals for the next week and social services for the next 10 days. It is still underway, and there have been 2 million masks delivered to all social institutions last week; not only is it state-reserved, but the delivery of 2 million masks and 300 thousand pairs of gloves to ensure that social workers are also safe, honourable Member. And I quote you from 168 Hours. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] WHO's European Emergency Programme Director, who said he was convinced that the measures adopted in Hungary are suitable for detecting cases. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-76	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Online education has been ordered, but who creates its conditions? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh nodds.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm lucky, my daughter is a third-grade high school student, so the family doesn't have to prepare to go in and graduate within a few days of what you said to the peak of the epidemic. I am lucky, especially my daughter, because there is a computer at home, there is internet access at home, unlike many graduates who are not guaranteed equal opportunities. So they have to prepare for graduation without being able to reach the teacher, where appropriate they cannot reach the curriculum, they cannot properly prepare for it. You believe that the peak of the epidemic will be 3 May, and then the graduations will begin. Thousands of teachers, tens of thousands of students, parents, grandparents are at risk by wanting to have a graduation in a room at the top of the epidemic. Dear Secretary of State, You have consulted on Soros at least 12 times each week, and I would like to ask you that you have consulted teacher organisations, student organisations and health organizations on the date of your graduation. Why didn't you check your graduation date, Mr. Secretary of State? Why did you put your graduation date at the same time as the expected peak of the epidemic? Why not create equal opportunities for students who do not have the opportunity to study online? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-04-20-78	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The health of the students and the health of the students' families were of particular importance to the government, so they tried to make decisions much more quickly for the benefit of Hungarian school students and their families. Therefore, Hungary has already suspended school teaching on the 12th day compared to the first registered infection, and we have moved to a digital working order. We on Day 12, Netherlands on Day 17, Austria on Day 21, Italy on Day 34, Spain on Day 41, Sweden on Universities on Day 47, Germany on Day 49, France on Day 52. We made our move on the 12th day. We always base all our actions on the opinion of the epidemiological experts and doctors, and we try to make every decision about schools as well. [[15.10]] Obviously, so far and beyond, the time of decisions and the content of decisions will be influenced and will continue to be influenced by what the epidemiological situation is, according to medical experts, mathematicians, what is allowed and what is not. It's not a classic administrative decision, it's not a political decision, it's an organizational decision based on medical, expert opinions. As far as Internet availability is concerned, Mr Group Leader, you very much like to make Hungary look bad in all respects, but in Hungary, according to a recent international ranking, the speed of the Internet has accelerated 20 percent, obviously the bandwidth, and so we are in the 10th place of the international ranking, i.e. the Hungarian bandwidth is the same as the American, honourable Member, 128-130 megabit/secundum, we are about the same as the US. According to the OECD, 98,5 percent of Hungarian students have access to the Internet, the OECD average is 96.5. We prevent France and Spain from learning at home, so quiet private rooms, internet access, computer, but we prevent Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, Finland, Germany and the United Kingdom. Please do not try to make Hungary look worse than what is real! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-81	Thank you very much. Apparently, Mr. Secretary of State didn't go out of the car's leather chair, he didn't go to the country to see what he was saying, it's not exactly true. Many children in Hungary do not have the opportunity to study online. So you're saying this is completely untrue. On the other hand, he did not answer the question that if their epidemiological experts say that the roof was due on May 3rd, then what is the reason for bringing the children into the same room for a few days later and graduating there. He couldn't answer that. Please answer one thing very specifically. Is it true that young graduates have to fill out a statement to maintain their application for the exam? At the bottom of the statement, you can read this: -I made my decision taking into account the epidemiological risks. Is it true that graduates must complete such a declaration? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-04-20-82	Thank you. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-20-83	Thank you very much. I'd like to continue to answer your question on the Internet first. When you were in government, honourable Member, in the European Union the internet coverage of households was 61 percent, in Hungary 51. Now 88 percent in the European Union, 86 percent in Hungary. So we have also succeeded in achieving the European Union level in this area, and I think we can be proud of that, too, and that we have been able to put a number of European countries behind us. Honourable Congressman, The preparation of graduations has also been carried out in such a way that students are as safe as possible, they can only be in limited numbers in a classroom, there will be no oral exams, only written, except for subjects where only oral examinations can be taken. That is what your opposition proposals were about. A decision has been made by 15 April. Either it's oral, or it's written, but the government's decided to take a written exam. You said to have up to five students in the classroom. Obviously, there are still discussions on this, but we also believe that there are a limited number of students, up to 10 students, in a room, where there are 1, where there are 10. But like I said, as with all our other measures, we are constantly looking at the epidemic curve, and we are adapting all of our actions to what we have already done. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-84	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? The Prime Minister's absence allowed Minister Péter Szijjártó to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-04-20-85	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-04-20-86	Thank you. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Minister? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[László Lóránt Keresztes: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First, I would like to convey my message to Minister Palkovic. It can be seen that the deepest economic crisis of all time is beginning to unfold, and at the same time we are and will be witnessing a serious social tragedy. I would like you to point out to Mr Secretary of State his superior, boss, minister that, at times, he should report to Parliament on economic protection measures. Your government, propaganda, was talking about a historical economic package, but today even economic operators close to the government and public actors admit that this rescue package, this economic programme, has proved to be insufficient. So you're late. The biggest, most important criticism of this package is that those in great trouble, those who have lost their jobs and livelihoods, cannot count on the Hungarian government in any way. Overall, this programme is very little and is too bureaucratic in size. In parallel, the government took serious austerity measures concerning the municipalities. According to more modest estimates, 50-60 thousand people have already lost their jobs, and in the next short period another 100,000 people are expected to do so, and we do not yet see the end of it, we do not see how deep this crisis will be if we look at economic aspects alone. You clearly do not want to face this issue. You, Mr Secretary of State, have specifically written on a written question that anyone who loses his job must be helped to find a new one as soon as possible. Frankly, Secretary of State, do you think that in this economic situation, when an extremely deep economic crisis is unfolding, there is a chance for thousands or hundreds of thousands of people to find jobs again? We believe that there is an immediate need for resources, much more, the amount of wage subsidies should be increased by an order of magnitude, it should be extended to everyone, and the unemployment benefit should be extended until the end of the year, and the amount should be increased. The Secretary of State of Rétvár also constantly talks about the date on which measures are to be taken. My question, Mr Secretary, is when you will face this social problem and when you will address the issue of people who have already lost their jobs. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that the opposition and, therefore, you are not credible when it comes to protecting jobs, because you have joined forces with those who have dealt with the crisis with austerity. The Left handled the economic difficulties, the economic crises by putting new and new burdens on the shoulders of Hungarian people and Hungarian families instead of providing them with real help. Let's just remember the Bokros package, or let's remember the 2009 cutbacks. During the crisis, you and your allies took away the 13th month pension, cut family support, reduced the support of local governments, and sold Hungary to the neck with the help of the IMF. It can be said, honourable Member, that the grace of God and the wisdom of the Hungarian people are not in this situation. Honourable Congressman, Let me also inform you that we regularly provide information on the economic protection action plan here in Parliament, but we also presented in detail in the Economic Committee the largest conservation plan in Hungarian economic history. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that this economic protection action plan concerns about 20 percent of GDP, the largest such plan in Hungary's history, which includes immediate, medium- and long-term measures. Thank God, the Hungarian economy is in a better position now than in the case of previous crises, standing on a more stable footing than before the 2008 crisis, so we can take appropriate steps to the difficulties caused by the corona virus. Indeed, these appropriate steps are to protect jobs and create as many new jobs as the virus has destroyed. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-20-90	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you not only constantly refer to your Balliberal ancestors, Balliberal governments, but also follow the policy we experienced before 2010. Mr. Secretary, the fact that you are constantly talking about your spiritual ancestors does not excuse you from your responsibilities. Hundreds of thousands of people are going to be in a very difficult situation, in a hopeless situation, losing their livelihood, losing their jobs. You refuse to answer these people what they do in their behalf. You say it's a historic package that's been announced. For the next three months, the government has estimated 200 billion, which is what they want. In the budget, we see a number of investments, a plan that cannot be justified and cannot be supported in any way. Hundreds of billions, up to a thousand billion, could be transferred to increase wage support by an order of magnitude. All your boss has said in the press is that they're reviewing the economic security program or economic action plan. Can you expect, on the one hand, to supply people who have lost their jobs and to increase the amount of wage subsidies by an order of magnitude? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-92	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-20-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is, on the one hand, you are demanding more money, on the other hand, the municipalities, parties, banks and the commercial sector, which also have to take their share of the defence costs, are trying to lobby here for their benefit. The fact is that we say that every sector must play its part, including municipalities, parties, banks and the commercial sector, and, of course, the necessary resources are provided by the government above them. And, honourable Member, there is indeed a debate between us, a social policy debate and an economic policy debate. We continue to think that the protection of jobs must be addressed and that new jobs must be created instead of those destroyed by the virus. That's our main goal. That is why there is wage support for vulnerable workers, which is why there is a preferential loan for businesses, which is why there is a tax reduction - your allies have raised taxes, we have reduced taxes - and that is why we have suspended the repayment of loans and that is why we are reimbursing the 13th month pension. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.20]]
u2020-04-20-94	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Szabó Timea, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Péter Szijjártó was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2020-04-20-95	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-04-20-96	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Szabó Timea, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-04-20-97	I think in an epidemic, a minister has to answer several questions...
u2020-04-20-98	Congressman, yes or no?
u2020-04-20-99	...so we'll wait for Minister.
u2020-04-20-100	All right. I would like to inform you that Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that the Hungarian people have done what the government has asked of them, and what is expected or necessary in this situation. Most Hungarian citizens respect curfew discipline and behave responsibly for the time being. We want it to stay that way. That is why it is important for the government to tell us what its purpose is, what its plan is for people to see the light at the end of the tunnel. But they don't see what the government's plan is to control the epidemic, or there's a plan to keep people at home. Yesterday, the Prime Minister mentioned 3rd of the rooftop in a campaign video, but we do not know what the basis is or what will be next. The question is, then, when do we start to filter in bulk, when do we provide masks, when do we provide masks to each resident, not only to health care workers, but everyone who has to work now cannot stay at home, drivers, food sellers, pharmacists, and I could list them. When will these masks be mailed to households? You have sent a nice, thick envelope to all citizens on numerous occasions during the national consultation. I think this envelope could fit masks. How can we get people to wear masks in public? This is necessary, for example, on means of transport or when they go into office. According to Minister Szijjártó's report, millions of masks and tests come in every week, so there can be no reference to a shortage, and he also claimed that the supply is continuous, we bought production lines in China, so we do not need to have the mask and the test in the warehouse. These should be used. Defensive can be successful if we ask not only ordinary people for something, but also the government shows a plan for what will happen in the future. So what is the government's plan to keep the number of infected low, and to gradually lift the restrictions as soon as possible to start the economy? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-04-20-102	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was also a statement from a WHO leader the other day that Hungary could successfully slow down the spread of the virus. It is a virus that cannot be stopped, but its spread can be slowed down, and the Hungarian defense was specifically mentioned among the successful. In this, of course, we need what you mentioned, that Hungarian people seem to take the risk of the virus seriously. You can obviously see in other countries how serious the consequences of the virus infection were, so they themselves changed their way of life, their rhythm of life, and Hungary acted quickly in order to announce certain measures, let us say that the emergency was announced after the first infection on the 7th day, not on the 37th day, like Belgium, not on the 38th day, like Italy, not on the 44th day, like Spain, not on the 49th day, like Germany, or not on the 58th day, as France, but on the early day. It is also due to this, and thanks to the self-discipline and lifestyle change of the Hungarian people, we do not have to look at any pop-ups today. But we don't know exactly what the future will bring, because viral infections have their own course. You asked about masks. For weeks, you have claimed that there are no masks, only empty boxes can be seen in TV reports. You left and saw that, thank God, Hungary has acquired tens of millions of masks. With regard to the use of these, I would recommend to you the statements of the WHO leader, since you are not arguing with us, you are arguing with them. One of the WHO leaders, an epidemiological expert, says that in a community, we do not recommend wearing masks unless they are sick, but in this case the mask can prevent the spread of infection. We will do this in Hungary, because in hospitals all infectious patients get masks and the staff who supply them get masks. And Mike Ryan, WHO Executive Director, said that there is no concrete evidence that wearing masks would have potential benefits for the population, and even some of the evidence suggests the exact opposite because of improper use or fit-in. So we say that anyone who wants to use a mask must use it correctly; we have told them many times how to use it correctly. But the spread of the epidemic can be facilitated by lifestyle changes, and the preservation of human health is what we do in hospitals to prepare for the great epidemic burden. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-104	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-04-20-105	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to say that I would not boast so much about the government's actions, because at first you said that the tests did not make any sense, and now it is said that masks do not make any sense, which is obviously not true. In all countries where the number of infections has been reduced, very effectively, very disciplined, they have started to use these devices, and you can see that there is a result. Obviously, government capacity must also be maintained, but you can see in Denmark, Austria that you can cope with this infection. Obviously, if someone takes a mask without symptoms but is infected, then there is less chance that someone will be infected. If we test someone who's asymptomatic and who's infected, we can obviously track down who else he was in contact with and reduce the chances of infecting others. It's hard to argue with that, and that's why we need more masks and more tests, not the warehouse, but the people. Be kind to reconsider this and take an example of neighbouring countries, such as Slovakia, where this method has been successfully applied. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-20-107	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, We also say that they should wear masks and carry out tests in all cases, as recommended by the WHO and recommended by health professionals, are useful and can prevent the spread of the virus, and, of course, in the right way, by anyone else. We're just happy if anyone else wears the mask correctly, so they don't touch their noses, they don't touch their mouths, because obviously it can increase the risk of infection. You told us to take an example of Denmark. Honourable Congressman, How many deaths do you have in Denmark for a million people? 61! 20 in Hungary. You're telling us to take an example of Denmark? Triple the number of deaths per million people? You told us to follow the Danish example of defense. I don't know, obviously at the end we'll tell you exactly what circumstances were involved, but your group leader in his speech before the agenda said a lot of false things, including that Hungary is in a leading position in the number of deaths. Fortunately, we have better results in the number of deaths per million inhabitants than Denmark, Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Norway, Estonia, Liechtenstein, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands or even Spain and Italy. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[15.30]]
u2020-04-20-108	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question:. How can companies producing exports benefit from the new economic development action plan? It's an address. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond has the floor.
u2020-04-20-109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, A significant proportion of Hungarian jobs are linked to companies that produce primarily or at least a significant part of foreign markets. The government has done a great deal in recent years to ensure that Hungarian companies can also compete in foreign markets, making a significant contribution to economic growth. Every year we broke the record of exports last year, we're over EUR 100 billion, we're one of the 35 largest exporters in the world. Now we must protect these successes. To this end, the government has decided on the largest Hungarian economic development action plan ever, the implementation of which is now underway. The aim is to ensure that as few people lose their jobs as possible and create at least as many new jobs as the virus eliminates. In 2010, we promised to create 1 million new jobs in ten years, and we have managed to achieve full employment in recent years. We therefore owe thanks to every Hungarian person who takes part in this. The same people who said ten years ago that what the Hungarians signed up for is impossible, and in Hungary, not the elected government, but the IMF should define economic policy, are now once again disbelieving, sniveling, smartening or pitiful. The economic protection measures announced so far will help those affected in many areas of economic life. The protection of jobs also requires export support measures, and the government has also taken action in this area. Dear Minister, What are the key export support measures of the Government's new economic development action plan? Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-20-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The performance of the Hungarian economy is largely determined by external economic indicators, such as export performance and the degree of investment from abroad to Hungary. You have rightly said that Hungary is one of the 35 countries in the world that can export over EUR 100 billion, and although we are only the 92nd in terms of population in the world, the 34th largest export performance has been shown by the Hungarian economy last year, making us the 10th most open economy. Of course, this also means that Hungarian companies have to face very serious international competition, so the government decided that Eximbank will launch a three-pillar programme to support Hungarian companies' participation in the foreign market, one of the pillars of which is a compensation programme, the second pillar of which is a compensation loan cover programme and the third pillar of a credit insurance scheme. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that from now on Hungarian companies can apply for these options, and they can already apply for credit, collateral and insurance. The first loan application was accepted on April 17. The compensation loan scheme will start on 4 May, the compensation loan cover programme will start on 11 May and the compensation credit insurance scheme will start on 15 May. In this way, we ensure that Hungarian companies can remain competitive on the external markets, that their liquidity is maintained, that, in the case of commercial bank loans, they do not have to attract additional resources or, in the case of late payment, they do not have to deduct from certain external markets. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-112	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. Indeed, the new economic protection action plan does not increase our exposure, we want to solve our own problem. Part of this action plan, as you said, is the export support and investment promotion programme. Hungary has made its move on time. It is reassuring that the programme serves the interests of the Hungarian economy. Due to the successful economic policy of recent years, Hungary does not need the assistance of the IMF and should remain so. We all know that this kind of help doesn't come for free, and with it, the country loses its self-determination. Addressing the crisis requires national cooperation and effective management requires support from countries outside the euro area. We must also join forces with other countries in the region and look at Hungarians across the border as a resource. The crisis-management reflexes of the Hungarian economy and politics have undergone a paradigm shift, and in spite of the work-based economy, history has not gone beyond. The country's task is not to serve globalisation, but to protect Hungarians and communities in the new crisis era. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-20-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a HUF 150 billion credit line will be opened under the compensation loan scheme, the interest rate will be between 0.1-2.5 per cent, for small businesses the maturity of the current asset loan will be 0.1 per cent, for current asset financing 3 per cent, for investment financing six years. In the case of loan collateral, we undertake to provide a guarantee for six years for working capital and investment loans, the guarantee rate for small and medium-sized enterprises may be 80% of the principal amount, and for large companies, half of the principal amount. For the credit insurance scheme, we offer to ensure the risks of short-term buyer loans arising from export deliveries, with 95 percent taking over from the customer, and the maximum duration of the deferred payment may be 365 days. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-116	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. This is the solution? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-04-20-117	I'd rather wait again for Minister to come in and give me the answer in person. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-118	Congressman, I would like to inform you that you will have to answer the Minister at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-04-20-119	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-04-20-120	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, since you're faster than the Crown Virus and you're out of the Chamber. When you say and the EMMI has issued a statement that the government will determine the date of the graduation exams on the basis of epidemiological considerations, that is absolutely fine. Then comes the shock when they say the roof is due on May 3rd, and you don't want to postpone or otherwise solve your graduation. That's when the confusion comes, and that's when it comes to what it's all about, the incomprehension, the outrage, because it completely discredits the. Stay at home! The campaign, the curfew measures that were, by the way, very wisely taken. People are asking why 36,000 beds should be released in health care and sent home to patients as serious as the elderly lady of Gádány, whose case you can read about in Népszava, for example, if you do not believe us, Mr. Secretary of State. Why is it that whole sectors go bankrupt or are in a very difficult situation and thousands of people become unemployed? Why is it that, in this situation, you do not listen to reason, why is it that you do not behave in a more responsible way? And if, in an earlier reply, Mr Secretary of State, which he gave to another fellow Member, he was exemplary with the Netherlands as a kind of negative country where they were not as quick to take measures as you in Hungary, then why not follow the Dutch example of a ticket offered to replace the graduation exam? The Netherlands was supposed to graduate on 7 May, but with this recommendation they can avoid the further escalation of the epidemic. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-122	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[15.40]]
u2020-04-20-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In all countries of the world, because of the coronal virus epidemic, education has been in a situation that has not been the case in recent decades for generations, because somehow, without meeting in classrooms, it has to be resolved that students are still moving forward in the curriculum. On the one hand, quick action is very important here, and I am sure you have said that, which is why it is important, as you have pointed out, that Hungary has acted much earlier in order to protect the families of teachers, students and students, teachers than many other countries, since, compared to the first registered infected, we have suspended school teaching on the 12th day, just like, say, Poland, but much earlier than the Netherlands, who is on the 17th day, Austria, who is on the 21st day, Italy, who is on the 34th day, Spain, who is on the 41st day, Sweden, who is on the 47th day of universities, Germany, who has suspended school teaching on Day 49 or France, who has suspended school teaching on Day 52; we are on Day 12, the French on Day 52. So we've been trying to react quickly, we've changed the structure of the public media program, and from morning to afternoon, the teaching classes go by different age groups to help. We have even amended copyright laws to make written literary works easier for teachers, to be easier to transmit, or even film details, or music, and in all other ways to help them organise education digitally so that students can move on. But every step we take, not only in the field of education, the re-launching of the economy and all other areas, is influenced by the number of epidemics, i.e. the number of people infected, the number of people who died, the number of people in need of mechanical ventilation, and this has affected them so far, and this will affect the future when the government can make a decision. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-124	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-04-20-125	Thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, I can't accept this. By the way, he did not say a word about graduation, why these 83,000 students should be brought together, and their families, parents, grandparents would be put at risk. This is a shocking step for you, far from being responsible. I ask again: at least the proposal for a resolution that I and my fellow Members, Mr Csányi, Wolf and Brenner have tabled, have you been able to read? I guess not. By the way, it's the Dutch example that proves that we're not talking in the air. They were able to make it in another country. There is war, the Hungarian nation is fighting a war against the virus! There is a need for some flexibility, Mr State Secretary, but you are insisting on these bureaucratic rules and putting the family members of students in jeopardy. What's with the narrowness? Why can't they replace graduation on the basis of an offer and make it easier for these families to get through this whole disaster? You can rewrite the Fundamental Law, and you can even override the Ten Commandments of Scripture, so why don't you do 7-8 here? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-126	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian and Dutch defence, if you compare it, to a left-wing medium, Ledia Lazeri, head of the WHO office in Hungary, said that the number of cases increases by less than 10 percent daily in Hungary, which is therefore very far from exponential growth, so she admitted that the measures have been effective in Hungary so far. You were exemplary with the Netherlands. As I said earlier, the number of dead people per million inhabitants in Hungary is less than 21. Do you know how many in Holland? 215, ten times the size of Hungary. [[Zoltán Balczó: Graduation Example?]] Obviously, Western examples can be given, and, of course, there may be a lot of good measures taken there, but if you usually tell us to follow the road like the Netherlands, more than ten times as many deaths would be made for one million inhabitants as fortunately as the Hungarian situation is not now. We do not know how and how it will be at the end of the epidemic, of course. Honourable Congressman, We've made all our decisions by monitoring the epidemic curve. [[Mrs. Potocska's name is Anita Kőrösi. Zoltán Balczó: Honourable Secretary of State, you asked me as Secretary of State for Education, not as Healthcare!]] the change in its nature. You may laugh at this, honourable Member, but I think it is worth it to doctors, to experts, to professionals who have already had international experience in this area, and to rely on them. After all, there was a decision that we made more quickly, that we postponed, that we didn't make, that we didn't make, because we adapted all our decisions to the evolution of the epidemic curve, which can change from week to week or even from day to day. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-128	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] If I do not disturb you, Congressman, I would like to thank you with due respect for your attention. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-129	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In our fight against the coronal virus, health equipment is the most important thing to protect against many other measures. We all know that in the fight against the spread of the virus, mouth masks, gloves, isolation clothes or breathing machines have an important role to play in keeping patients alive. Hungary has a contract for some 150 million masks, over 47 million protective equipment and some 3.5 million tests with a crown virus. Tens of millions of these special protective equipment have already arrived in our country. The purchase of equipment is therefore continuous and will be taken from Ferihegy Airport to central storage after customs and quality control have been carried out. From here, they can go to hospitals, clinics, police and defences, so that doctors, nurses, policemen and soldiers can do their job with the best possible means. The Fidesz-KDNP government has always been characterised by responsible neighbourhood policy and the help of Hungarians living outside our borders. Therefore, we have been able to and will provide assistance to a number of neighbouring countries. We were able to deliver masks and protective clothing to the Carpathian Basin region, but for example, we were able to help Italy in a very difficult situation to fight the epidemic. Dear Minister, In our experience, the government in these difficult situations is doing everything in the fight against the virus, which has been confirmed by the data so far. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also taking part in this superhuman work, so on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I would like to thank you for the organization, the execution and the sacrifice of the participants. Of course, as has been the case so far, we can and will give you all the support we can and will give you. We receive daily reports of shipments received, new and more successful purchases, which is why I respectfully ask Minister: how much health equipment has been brought to Hungary for the disease control, and how many more shipments can we expect and when will they arrive? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-20-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the legalities of the world market do not always work in terms of the purchase of health equipment. Demand is much higher than the capacities available in the world today, and here the word "the world" is somewhat an extension, given the fact that everyone from China acquires the necessary medical protection tools. So are we. Last week we brought goods to Hungary by 21 aircraft and 3 trucks. I respectfully inform you that we are expecting more than 59 million surgical masks and more than 16 million masks with a higher level of protection. We have a contract for more than 16,000 respirators, and we have almost 3 million contracts for tests in terms of future arrivals, as 32.5 million have already been received in the case of protective equipment, and we are still waiting for 27 million. I would also like to inform you that, since we are responsible for all Hungarians, we are responsible for all Hungarians, so if we are in trouble cross-border communities ask for our support in the future, they can count on us. Just as in the spirit of a responsible neighbourhood policy, we give support to countries in distress south of us, whose defence capabilities are important in the interest of Hungarian national security. After all, we know that there can be an illegal migration wave in the Western Balkans at any time, and if the countries on this route are weakened from the point of view of their ability to defend themselves, it can pose a serious national security risk to Hungary. Therefore, we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that we bring in as many of the contractual protection tools in Hungary as possible, and that Hungarians from across the border and countries from our southeast can count on our help. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2020-04-20-132	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-133	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I would also like to say that the hack campaign with Hungarians across the border is amazing and disappointing. But we were pleased to hear that in these difficult weeks, the government is doing everything in its power to fight the virus, the results of which are confirmed by the data. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also taking a significant part in this superhuman work, so on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I would like to express my thanks for organizing, conducting, and for the sacrifices of the participants. Minister, we continue to support your work and ask for God's blessing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-20-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You told me about the prank campaign, it's really depressing and thought-provoking. I would like to tell you that the number of masks handed over by Hungary to people from across the border so far and to countries from us to the southeast in difficulty is 2.2 percent for masks imported into Hungary. 2.2 percent of us have also built our own masking capacity, because in addition to the existing capacities, we also bought a complete production line from China, which allows us to help others, as well as to help us, and I would like to pay attention to this with respect. In the last week, we received half a million masks from Uzbekistan as a help, Azerbaijan as well as 100,000 masks from Kazakhstan. Of course, someone may think this is ridiculous, but over 600 thousand masks have helped us by the member states of the Turk Council. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] We welcome, of course, other people who want to help in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-136	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I think that my fellow Members will be on their way right away, so please be patient. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why does the government make Taigetos out of the rest of Hungarian health care?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Péter Szijjártó was entitled to reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman says yes. You have the floor.
u2020-04-20-137	Dear Parliament, [[Dr. Gyula Budai intervenes.]] The heartbeat of Hungary today is these two words: enough. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: From you!]] It was enough to send sick people, seriously injured people, away and around the country instead of taking care of them. Enough poverty, millions of people can't pay their bills at the end of the month. Enough of the government not taking the elderly, the sick, the students, the needy. Enough with the harshness, the insensitiveness. Enough of the fact that it's getting harder and harder to make a living while people are working more and more. It was enough to reduce the number of people working, raising children, caring for each other, trying to survive with honor, while increasing the number of slackers, lying billionaire crooks, and scheming for the protection of the state. Enough of them taking everything that people have worked for and selling everything that people have in common. Enough of a privileged group treating people like idiots and telling them that you don't get anything, take care of yourselves, and pay more and more and more. It was enough that people always get worse, while those in power can gain more luxury, more wealth, and more privileges. Dear Secretary of State, The title of my question was why the government is doing Taigetos. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Watch out!]] the rest of Hungarian health care? I specifically ask you to take responsibility for the people you've left behind. I'm asking specifically who said we have to evacuate 60% of the hospital beds. And I'm asking you specifically what kind of state aid is being given to home caregivers of their sick relatives. [[Dr. Gyula Budai intervenes.]]
u2020-04-20-138	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the congresswoman that Minister Péter Szijjártó has appointed Minister for the response, so she is the responder, not the Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2020-04-20-139	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The specific question you have asked us today has been answered in several cases...
u2020-04-20-140	Mr. Secretary, we're gonna have a voice right away, and our colleagues are gonna take the mike. And I want time restored. Thank you. [[Péter Szijjártó has a hand-held microphone placed in front of him.]]
u2020-04-20-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The specific question raised by you may have been answered several times here in the House walls, there have been several such questions in the last week, and we have always answered that question, and you are clearly not interested in these answers. In Pepita, they ask the same questions day by day, even though they receive the specific and professional answers. Minister Kásler and Secretary of State Rétvári have also made it clear that the Hungarian health system must be prepared for the situation in which a larger number of patients infected with the coronal virus are to be cared for. All the necessary measures have been implemented by Hungarian health workers in recent years. You know that, and you know the answers exactly. However, I would also like to tell you that the inclusion of Hungarian health care in the wrong situation is not correct. In recent years, expenditure on the operation of Hungarian healthcare has increased significantly. I would like to refer back to 2010, compared with HUF 770 billion more in the operation of health care in 2020, and these increased costs and increased financial opportunities are particularly important in difficult situations such as the current one. Now we can really see the importance of renovating 91 rural hospitals and 54 clinics in recent years, and the average wage of doctors has doubled in ten years, as well as a clear schedule of wage increases for health professionals. So I think that when we are talking about Hungarian health, especially now, Madam honourable Member, we need to speak in the voice of thanks and recognition also in terms of health workers and health managers. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-142	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-143	Dear Minister, I'm very sorry you didn't answer the questions. I wanted to talk to the Prime Minister, but he's not here at work. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] So I was hoping for an answer from you. You did not answer the question of taking responsibility; you did not answer the question of who invented 60%; nor did you answer the question whether family members who were caring for patients at home received state aid or not. This means protective equipment, an income supplement for loss of income, and a nurse's help, because people may not be able to connect the infusion and do other things at home. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You don't have to do that.]] Dear Minister, I wasn't talking to the medical staff, I was talking to you, and you didn't answer the questions, obviously because you couldn't answer. But you may have realized that I quoted Viktor Orbán in 2007 when I told you how much Hungarians have had enough of. And I think that by 2020, the 2007 Viktor Orbán achieved everything he used to criticize the then government and did everything he wanted to avoid. You guys have failed very hard.
u2020-04-20-144	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-20-145	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think we can easily decide that the Hungarian people agreed with what Viktor Orbán said in 2007: they made a clear decision on this in 2010, in 14 and in 18. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]]
u2020-04-20-146	I thank the Minister for his reply... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Answer me, Minister.]] Madam Congresswoman, if you don't take this the wrong way, you're going to have another speech. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When will you submit your resignation? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[Lajos Korózs: No!]] [[16.00]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Member that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Just a moment, please. [[Dr. Szél Bernadett, leaving the Chamber, is speaking to pro-government representatives. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did you just say that Prime Minister should be here, and you are leaving?! Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Before finishing the polemic, I would like to inform you that Zsolt Molnár, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: What does the decisions made have to do with the control of the epidemic? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The whole world, the whole civilized world, is struggling with the epidemic, and we might think that the Hungarian government is doing the same, compared to this, we need to see that the unprecedented political and economic concentration of power that this government has already started is continuing. There's always two sides to the coin. Let's first see what they did, and I wish they hadn't, representatives of NER. Because I ask you, what does the encryption of the Budapest-Belgrád railway have to do with the epidemic situation? Or what does the state purchase of Lőrinc Mészáros's company have to do with the epidemic? Or what does the majority of the government in the theatre supervisory board have to do with the epidemic situation? Or what does the declaration of Göd as a special economic zone have to do with the epidemic situation, in particular by putting it outside the administrative border? Or what does putting rural universities into fundraising have to do with the epidemic situation? Or here in Budapest, what does the decision of Városliget, which supersedes the decision of the local government and disregards the ban on change have to do with the epidemic situation? I could list these questions, for now, without the need for completeness. But let's see what we should have done on the other hand, because there's always another side to the coin. Why aren't there mass residential tests? Why don't you help the health workers? Why don't you help the sectors that the government has abandoned and which it has actually banned? Why don't you work out the possibilities for short working hours in Hungary? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We worked it out.]] I could go on with why, why, why. Would you please stop practicing this law and return to the fight against the epidemic? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned that every coin has two sides. That is true, you are mistaken twice and from both sides, on the one hand, in dealing with the epidemic. It also has a health and an economic aspect. In terms of the health dimension, he is not arguing with me, nor even with the Prime Minister, nor with pro-government politicians, but with professionals and statistics. You can do that for a while, but a smart man doesn't do that after a while, because it doesn't make much sense. Look at the statistics, listen to the experts, Hungarian experts, international experts, what they say about how the Hungarian government managed, successfully or not to manage the health effects of the epidemic, how it was able to slow down the rate of spread of the epidemic. Everyone says, thank God, so far, we have managed to be relatively successful by bringing together Hungarians. Further measures are needed to preserve these successes. In the context of managing the economic impact, Minister, we have also just talked about it, and here the State Secretary colleagues have been talking about it for weeks, and so far none of you have been able to dispute it, so this is also a category of the fact that we are making an allocation and transfer of 18-20 percent of GDP to address the economic impact of the epidemic. This means, on the one hand, the preservation of jobs and, on the other, the creation and restoration of new jobs for those who lose their jobs. This is one side of the coin. On the other side of the coin, you listed a lot of billings. I agree with these legislative proposals from a policy point of view, which I consider to be important issues. Education, local governments, cultural policy, these are important matters, and from the first moment we said that what is an epidemic is operating on another channel than the process of ordinary parliamentary legislation. You don't understand that anymore, and I can't figure out why. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-150	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-20-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, It is too early to take into account, since your Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Hungary, said that the epidemic will culminate at the beginning of May, and we will wait for it with the balance. There are two sides to the coin, but in your reply the words that Budapest-Belgrád, that theaters, that Göd, did not answer the questions I asked. And he did not mention one more very important issue: why are they continuing to fight against the municipalities? The crown virus must be defeated, not the car tax removed from the municipalities, and, above all, it must not continue to build a stadium, so that the special tax on banks can otherwise be played out, and the stadiums will continue to build on tao money. That's what you should be thinking about, Mr. Secretary, and not in general speaking in a meaningless way. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-152	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-20-153	Thank you for the floor. I'm just asking you, Congressman, not to get carried away with what you have to say. I was talking about these very legislative proposals, these are important legislative proposals, and they are being discussed in the House's normal timetable because they are not directly related to the protection of the Crown Virus, but otherwise important legislative proposals. And by the way, look at the stats again. In the period 2010-2020, in addition to the debt of HUF 1300 billion, the municipalities have doubled their own income and we ask them to contribute a minimum share to the protection against the coronal virus. By the way, multinational companies, by the way, the government, by the way, the Hungarian National Bank, all contribute more to the fight against the epidemic, but we believe that we need to bear a common burden here. You are proposing this common burden, out of purely obvious political intent. I think that's unacceptable. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-154	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of the Democratic Coalition, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "Why does the government bleed out the settlements?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás granted the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Laszlo Varju, nodded, thank you.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In a few days, the government was exposed, not to fight effectively against the virus, but to build the entire state occupation. The Orbán government has deprived the settlements of the vehicle tax, which is essential for the multiplicity of tasks that multiply locally. In Göd, the local taxes paid by Samsung were added to their hairy paws, making the first settlement bleed. Secretary of State, how many cities are next? You have not only destroyed health care, education, social care, but also an important democratic achievement, local self-determination, local self-government. But there's no stopping at all. At private companies, the government's man appears, einstand, and then they appoint their own party man to the head of the company, they send seven-tested Fidesz parties to close the old debates, with which the competent minister says that the Budget Committee should not be informed of this in any way. Dear Secretary of State, I must say that the Orbán government is the virus that has infected the entire country. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] And their party-state system is shutting down life-saving relief, not saving people, leaving the municipalities who want to live, and taking resources away from them. Dear Secretary of State, On 13 October, people voted for millions to otherwise face a normal solution and to act to do so, to get rid of the rule of Fidesz. Millions of Hungarians are being punished now when this is being taken away. I ask the Minister: how long will they continue to bleed out the settlements, and what other austerity measures do they intend to put on the hands of the municipalities? Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[16.10]]
u2020-04-20-156	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I understand your frustration, because there is a kind of remorse coming from you every time it comes to the municipalities, because everything that the municipalities have suffered between 2002 and 2010 has indeed led to the bleeding of the municipalities, the inability to operate in the local government and the impossibility of performing the municipal tasks. You also remember that in 2008, when the State Audit Office found that between 2004 and 2008 the government had withdrawn some HUF 1900 billion from the municipalities, and that the municipalities were forced to make up for this from loan and asset recovery. These omissions were settled after 2010. In order to ensure the freedom to operate the municipalities, we have ensured that they can get rid of their loans, that the loans have been taken over by the central budget and that the new division of tasks has ensured that the municipalities are able to carry out the mandatory tasks from State resources within the system of financing of tasks. Moreover, as has already been said here today, with an increase in economic performance, an increase in the economy of businesses, local governments and municipalities with a high tax power have been able to obtain more and more revenue, since the business tax is increasing enormously. This will allow the municipalities to take part in the fight against the epidemic during this difficult period. This allows municipalities, which have such a high tax power, to share in the common burden. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-159	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, I must say that the fate of the Hungarians is now to face their fears, which you will build up and whip up. But, you know, courage isn't a lack of fear, it's a decision that's more important than fear. Be it a local government leader who wants to save people, for example, but you're blocking them because they're blocking the information and they're taking away the source; whether it's an ormanship logging contractor who wants to save jobs, but you're cutting him out of support; or be a medical director who wants to save patients, in exchange, you're kicking him out of work. I propose to all our fellow citizens that we survive this troubled and infected epidemic and then stay home in the village and reorganize our local government in the city. Don't run, Hungary! That's what I suggest.
u2020-04-20-160	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-04-20-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian government was one of the fastest of the European states, following the emergence of the virus in Europe, in every step necessary to protect the safety of citizens. This has been said several times today according to dates and steps. For the time being, although we obviously should not yell at anything, because we do not yet know exactly when the end of the epidemic will be, but for now it is clear that all the steps we have taken together with the citizens and, by the way, with the municipalities to slow down the rate of spread of the virus are successful. So we really need to save people, save people, save the opportunity to survive healthy, survive the attack of this virus as many people as possible, and then the country's growth can continue at the same rate as people could and expected after 2010. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-162	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: Because of his absence, Minister Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-04-20-163	Yeah, I'll take it. Thank you.
u2020-04-20-164	Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-20-165	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You must know that there are settlements where poverty is enormous, where people live in extreme poverty, think of some settlements of the Ormans or even settlements in Borsod County, where in many cases either a doctor or a regular bus transport, but most of all there is no work, only public work. People want to live there too, so they're looking for ways to survive. If the necessary services are not available in a segment or in a sack village, illegal forms of livelihoods will break their way. In these areas, black labour, the black economy, expensive, triple-price transportation, high-cost shop-shopping and people's crippling usury are flourishing, but coercion is a great master. There are many phenomena, especially now, which have been strengthened because of the loss of jobs, even the fact that these people are forced to turn to loan sharks. It is also very difficult to comply with hygiene rules where, in most cases, there is no water, there is no bathroom, so if the epidemic or the virus gets into these places, there are serious casualties here. My question is how the government is trying to contain loan sharks, where local authorities, usually in these places, are poor enough to help these people, and how these people can even access healthy drinking water. That's my question. Thank you.
u2020-04-20-166	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, please.
u2020-04-20-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The set of problems raised by the congresswoman is indeed a serious set of problems, but let us look to ourselves, this is not a set of problems caused by the corona virus epidemic, Hungary has been carrying it for decades. Technically, we can talk about the very difficult groups of settlements that have survived from the period before the change of regime. Indeed, the catching-up of these settlements and these areas has been slower than expected in the last thirty years. However, we have done a great deal to make these obstacles or these difficulties go away. The government has done a great deal in recent years against the use of black work, usually black work. The action of the NAV and the support of employers, as well as the public work system that we have developed, will allow people who are temporarily excluded from the primary labour market to obtain assistance through municipalities. It is indeed a very serious and unacceptable system of usury, when in poor settlements the people fighting for leadership in some form torment the others. The police regularly take action against them, the proceedings against loan sharks are ongoing and these are being explored, but this is indeed a recurring crime, where we also need to expect cooperation from the victims. The congresswoman spoke about the loss of jobs. I'd like to tell you here that in the coronal virus epidemic, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] jobs were not primarily lost in these places. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-169	Thank you very much. Of course, I know that the coronal virus did not cause these settlements to become poorer, because it has been decades, but it is that in these places public works give a certain income, but most of the time these people are indebted to loan sharks that they can't take anything out of it. That there is no electricity, without being able to do so, when hygiene needs much more care in this situation, but where there is no water, it is increasingly difficult to do so. That is why I asked that the municipalities think of the poorer municipalities, not those who have the opportunity to apply for or apply for an additional fund to help these people. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-04-20-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Several programmes have been launched to promote social inclusion and to catch up with these difficult-lined areas, and they have been little successful. [[16.20]] However, over the past period, at the end of last year, the Ministry of the Interior has managed a new programme, in which we intend to launch sample programmes in some 300 settlements, and start local economic development, and here we need to think of the development of micro, small, but rather micro-enterprises, which will help create jobs locally, and in this programme we want to support both housing and public works in the settlements, obviously with the cooperation of the residential communities, but from a central source. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-172	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Yes, I accept.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-20-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the last 19 years, it has not been possible for so few to apply to higher education as in 2020. The total number of admissions was 91 thousand. Smaller universities and colleges experienced a significant 40-50 percent decline, even in larger universities the number of applicants decreased by 20-30 percent. Because of the few candidates, it is expected that there will be even less students in universities, and this will obviously cause serious problems in terms of funding, as universities receive their money according to how many students are trained. The decrease in the number of students therefore shows quite clearly that universities are in a very critical situation. In addition, it realizes that part of the universities have to face privatisation, because the Deputy Prime Minister has put forward a bill that means that the privatisation of six universities will take place. In English, this means, as you can see from the example of Corvinus, that they will be guaranteed to be leaders who know nothing about the management of higher education institutions, but in return they will be trusted NER partners, so they will be good comrades. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State and it may be necessary to ask the other Secretary of State, but I think they will be able to agree with each other on what solution he proposes for universities and colleges that are not available because of the few applicants and the students recruited. And the other, looking at these rushes, does the wallet have any concept of converting the university system at all, or is it left to the coronal virus epidemic to solve the nice, slow bleeding? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-174	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congressman, Dear House, I am willing to answer your question, but for a long time, maybe six months or a year, the issue of higher education belongs to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, but I was very happy to deal with this within the ties of the EMMI. While EMMI had the annual budget for higher education, I recall that there was an increase of around 45 per cent in the budget line that we use for higher education, and there was, first, a further increase of 27 per cent for higher education workers, and then a subsequent increase in wages, precisely so that wages could rise here. Obviously, the most important thing for us is that people with a degree in higher education who can then work in that job, so we have also tried to encourage engineering, IT and science training, and I think you know it very well, and we have started specific programmes, and we have used European Union funds to encourage students to choose such a career, precisely because they can be better placed. The fact that the transformation of training courses has moved in the right direction in Hungary also shows that one of the shortest times between the OECD Member States in Hungary is between getting a diploma and filling a job. So they're getting more and more qualifications for young graduates that they can put their hands on. The most important measure is the outcome measure, so how many perform at universities. The most important thing is that the time to the location is really short, because if they are not qualified for use, they are obviously able to find a slow position. The OECD's confirmation that one of the shortest times between graduation and placement is showing that one of our trainings and their structure are best targeted. The form of foundation at Corvinus University has clearly worked, it has worked, and we trust that this means more flexibility for the other universities as well. Other cultural issues have now been raised as to what is better, administrative classification or the granting of greater freedom to universities and cultural institutions in addition to additional resources. We have chosen the latter, we always provide additional resources, and we also provide additional organisational leave. Also, through local training centers, community colleges, community training centers, we were able to take training more into place, and the cities and Budapest did not smoke the young people who wanted to get a degree. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-176	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, He's doing the same routine he's been doing before, asking questions for himself, and then trying to answer them. That's what happened now, but I'd like to hold on to one thing. You said you weren't looking at the recording numbers, you were looking at the output numbers. Well, if you look at this, you can see in this, too, that in Hungary, in recent years, the number of graduates in the population is falling and, by the way, is lower than the EU average. Then to get involved in someone else's business: here in one of the previous answers I believe you said in one of your replies to my better fellow Member, that because the rate of growth of viral infections in Hungary is below 10%, we are no longer talking about exponential growth. Well, I'd like to say that no matter how many percent, no matter how low the percentage, it's still exponential. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-178	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-20-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In almost all recent years, there has been an increase in the proportion of graduates, the number of graduates, both within the whole society and among young people. There may have been a year when it was substantially stagnant, and it may mean a few tenths of a percentage decrease, but it has always increased overall, and so the target set by the European Union for 2020 which Hungary has also agreed to achieve in terms of the proportion of graduates, we have achieved years earlier, so we have reached the rate that we should have achieved by 2020 in the year 2017-18, and we are still at this level, honourable Member. So I think that there is also recognition for those working in Hungarian higher education. It is also important that the most popular of the applications were economic sciences, humanities and engineering. If you look at the fact that the Hungarian economy needs to be strengthened once again after the crisis, then these are good news, and if there is a need for reinforcements in Hungarian education, it is also good news. But medicine training is particularly popular in Hungary, and many foreign students come here. The number of foreign students also increased year after year. If Hungarian higher education were not competitive, why would the number of applicants from abroad increase year after year continuously and in a fit state? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-180	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question about the government's new investment protection programme. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-20-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, It is not easy to remember when the last year was when the volume of investments to Hungary would not have broken the previous year's record. It is not just quantity; these investments generate higher added value every year, higher technological standards and more R &amp; D value. Nothing shows this better than that the average salary in newly created jobs is around 450 thousand forints. The attractiveness of our country is well demonstrated by the fact that, in the present, perhaps most difficult situation, just last week, JYSK decided to build its regional distribution centre with an investment of HUF 65 billion. [[16.30]] The success of the Eastern opening is indicated by the fact that, while the amount of capital coming in from the West does not decrease, much of the investment is now coming from the East. The first half of last year was the first time since 2010 when most investments were not carried out by Western companies in Hungary, but by Oriental companies and Koreans. This is reflected in Samsung's giant investment in Göd, worth EUR 1.5 billion so far, and, most importantly, thousands of new jobs in electric car production in the run-off. Last Wednesday, the government decided to launch a new investment promotion system aimed at protecting these investments and encouraging new ones. Dear Minister, When does this program start, and what are the most important elements of it? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-20-183	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman,
u2020-04-20-184	One second, please. We've got technical assistance coming up again. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Leave it there! Péter Szijjártó: We will ask our technical colleagues why it is so difficult to operate one of these. The Office Security staff will put a portable microphone in front of the minister.]]
u2020-04-20-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is true that every year in the last five years, investment in Hungary has broken the current national record, and it is also true that more than half of the investment volume coming to Hungary last year has not only arrived in Hungary from the East, but specifically from the Republic of Korea, and one third of the jobs created by international companies in Hungary have been created by Korean companies. We maintain our cash support system, which helps Hungary to arrive, but we are also building a new system, given that the European Union has increased the possibility of so-called de minimis aid from EUR 200 thousand to EUR 800 thousand without any special investigation. For this reason, today we announced an investment promotion proposal whereby companies investing in Hungary can receive in cash up to half of the investment amount in cash if they keep their average statistical number, in Hungarian, the number of jobs currently in existence, by substantially increasing to a maximum of EUR 800 thousand. For investments of between EUR 150 and 300 thousand, we can give 30% of the investment volume, 40% of the investment volume for investments of between EUR 300 and 500 thousand and half of the investment volume in the form of cash support. I respectfully inform you that the European Union has made a notification of this new investment promotion system, so we are looking forward to the application of companies and their applications for this new form of support from today. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-186	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There is a need for resources to re-launch the economy and create jobs, and it is very good that foreign investment funds also contribute to domestic resources. I particularly appreciate the fact that the government's decision to adopt the new EU regulation has adapted very quickly and flexibly, and has taken advantage of this opportunity very well. One more thing I would stress in the current situation is that a significant part of both the defence tools and the investments needed to restart the economy are coming from the East. The long-term strategy for Eastern opening, although constantly criticised by the opposition, has worked. Time has confirmed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you, Minister and the government. Thank you for that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-20-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to inform you that I have instructed our investment promotion agency that, at the latest within three weeks of receiving an aid application, it is necessary to reach the signing of the grant contract, after which it will be 30 days before the company signing the grant contract to present to us the documents necessary for the entry into force of the agreement. So, basically from now on, we need to make the first allocation of aid amounts within four weeks, maximum five weeks. At the same time, I respectfully inform you that the European Union's notification of our investment incentive system, which will allow us to provide an investment aid amount of more than EUR 800 000, will begin this week, so that we can go above EUR 800 000 in terms of aid that can be granted without any tests in the European Union. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-190	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question: what is a certain 70 percent? It's an address. Minister, because of your absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-04-20-191	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-04-20-192	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-193	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, There are two driving instructors in the circle of acquaintance, and as a result of the epidemic, their work has virtually ceased. One of them received 75 percent of his previous earnings from the Orbán government, and the other received zero from the Orbán government. How is such discrimination possible between two Hungarians? Well, one is from Mures County, the other is from Pest County, one is from Orbán, Ludovic Orban, and the other is from Viktor Orbán. Of course, the government also came up with a 70 percent figure, which in the international comparison means that 70 percent of the wage is taken over. This had to be understood by Minister Palkovic in two rounds that this was not the case, but in the case of part-time employees, 70 percent of the wages due to the loss of working time, in Hungarian, if a person is working part-time for four hours, this means that this is actually 35 percent. But there's another double screw: it's only for those who have lost their income by 15-50 percent. Anyone who wants to keep the workforce more than that, but who's willing to sacrifice even more, doesn't deserve that. I consider this to be a misdemeanor of a sportsman. So I think we need to play this again, so we don't need opposition action to change that. By the way, where are we with the resources? The EU paid the deposit months in advance, HUF 215 billion to Hungary. Your ministry, Mr. Secretary of State, said that we do not need this, that it does not help us, that is only help to those who have a difficult budgetary situation. Like Romania, who has managed to solve this and has not failed people in such a situation? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, .. Romania! From Jobbik, this is a novel phenomenon and a novel expression. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Honourable Congressman, Allow me to inform you that the government has taken the threat posed by the virus from abroad from the very beginning, so it has taken the necessary steps to effectively defend itself among the first European countries, and, as has been said several times today, we have decided on a unique, record-sized economic protection action plan in the history of our country. Allow me to highlight in particular five measures: wage support for keeping jobs, tax reduction in support of this, preferential credit for businesses, suspension of loan repayments, and recovery of the 13th month pension, but also a number of measures are included in the economic protection action plan. Honourable Congressman, Let me also inform you that the primary objective of the government remains to protect jobs that are dying or at risk from the situation caused by the coronal virus. [[16.40]] We have received a number of proposals from the Chambers, professional organisations, on how it is necessary and how it would be worth supplementing the wage support programme for employment protection. We have listened to these proposals now, and many of them have been accepted. These will be published in tonight's Gazette. For example, the loss of working time can now range between 15 and 75 per cent, and part-time may be 2 hours per day if the support is used. Employers no longer need to have employees agree to amend the employment contract and sign it individually, but will automatically change from the date of the decision, simplifying administration and reducing bureaucracy. Obligation to retain the employment of the applicant worker [[The president, by jogging the bell, twice indicates the expiry of the time frame.]] will apply, and not to the number of statistical staff. I'll continue from here, Congressman. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-04-20-197	Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that the malpractice mentioned has been somewhat corrected. But in your proposals, propaganda and communication are still the top priority, because it's important for you not to talk about 35 percent, but 70 percent. It is important to say 13th month's pension, when it will probably be created in 24th. So you're going to continue with the communication-driven governance I'm going to tell you a story, as State Secretary Orbán did the other day. That's what it sounds like from the pre-90 period. The ship of communism is puking in the sea of life. They can't fix it, they can't fix it, they can't fix it. Then they invite Comrade Lenin, who eventually goes down to Engineering and comes back with a radiant face: Comrades, we have the error! All the steam went into the horn! Well, at the moment, Hungary's Orbán-led ship is vomiting on the sea of life, and even an iceberg is drifting towards it. We don't even know how big it is, so it's time for steam instead of horn. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] More and more to drive the propeller. I need a change like this. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-199	Thank you. With regard to steam horn, screw and Lenin, honourable Member, I am not competent. Allow me to continue from where I left off in the previous round if I usually hear people yelling behind me that they want a professional response. These clarifications and improvements will enter into force after consultation with professional organisations and chambers, as we have always had the policy to cooperate and work together with professional organisations and chambers. Allow me to add a few more sentences to the amendments. The wage support will then also cover those employed in the working time frame, so it will also be available for those working in the working time frame. From now on, there is no need to demonstrate economic conditions and a close link between economic difficulties and emergencies. We also want to help everyone who needs it to get their wage support. The forthcoming regulation will clarify that teleworking and home work can be requested [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] there are also more minor changes to the aid. Please read the decree carefully. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-200	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What is the situation at our borders? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-20-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The last few weeks have been in the spirit of protection against a coronal virus epidemic. Our lives have been completely transformed. Disease control has also affected many of our activities, such as travel and cross-border travel. What we're seeing is that air transport has stopped almost all over the world. Airlines are canceling their flights, airports are operating in a minimal operating mode. Air freight transport works and plays a key role in the purchase and transport of medical devices. Even so, road freight transport is still of paramount importance as it can respond flexibly to any changed needs. The basic needs of life must be guaranteed, so it is essential that freight transport continues to operate in full compliance with increased security measures. In the event of an epidemic, it is only possible to manage the supply of goods to the public without interruption, and therefore all States must ensure a rapid and accessible passage through their borders. In addition to the above, we must not forget either of the most important core values of the European Union on the free movement of persons. Of course, during the current epidemic, it is important and reasonable to maintain restrictions on the border closure, but commuters must be guaranteed the interoperability of our borders. This will not only reduce the further increase in unemployment, but also ensure the stable functioning of companies. Dear Minister, The Hungarian government must always keep in mind both the safety of Hungarian people and the survival and development of the Hungarian economy. Measures must therefore be taken at our borders which take into account both aspects. Based on the above, I ask the Minister: what is the situation at our borders? How does the government ensure the safe functioning of road freight transport and ensure and, if so, how many places workers commute to neighbouring countries? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-20-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Since our goal is to protect the lives and health of Hungarians in the number one front of defence against the world epidemic, we had to introduce restrictive measures at our borders. At the same time, I must make it clear that it is in our interest that relations between border communities continue. Therefore, we have been able to conclude with five from the seven neighbouring countries an agreement to help commuters cross the border. With regard to Slovenia, two more have been opened to the three border crossing points previously open. With regard to the crossing of the two valleys, our chiefs of police are currently coordinating that it is worth reopening again because of the low utilisation rate. As regards Austria, I can tell you the good news that another crossing will be opened from Wednesday this week; in Hungary Fertőrákos-Sopronpuszta and on the Austrian side Szentmargitbánya are the two settlements. This is important beyond itself because it is the crossover at the pan-European picnic venue. The Slovak border section currently has 10 crossings open. By reopening the crossing between Komárom and Révkomárom, we have achieved that the construction of the new bridge between the two cities will not stop. On our border with Romania, we agreed to allow commuting for nine of the ten crossing points open, and only international freight traffic at the motorway crossing in Chanádpalota is possible. On our border with Croatia there are seven crossing points, all seven crossing points can be commuted. We have not yet reached an agreement with the Serbs and Ukrainians, given that very strict restrictive measures have been put in place in both countries. These would be contrary to the possibility of any kind of commuting at our borders, but the Serbians are constantly consulted with the Minister of Finance. I'm going to consult on this case several times this week. I hope that, as some relief measures have been taken, there may also be progress in this respect. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-204	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-205	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. And thank you very much for your help in this, as several single-member constituencies from our Group Alliance have also indicated the need for this, and we thank you here for the rapid consultations and decision-making on both sides. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] We believe that it is very important that borders remain essentially closed, because we see that the virus has also been introduced from abroad, and we see that the opening of borders threatens the continued recovery and exponential growth of the virus. However, we believe that it is of economic interest that commuting takes place at these already opened border crossing points, and that if an agreement can be reached with the Serbian party, the possibility of commuting will also be opened at further border crossing points. Of course, it is also in the interests of the Hungarian people to be free of border crossings before trade in goods, as security of food supply is important for the free movement of goods, and I think Minister also reported last week that EU foreign ministers also agree that the free movement of goods should also be ensured in this difficult situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-20-207	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Of course, the smooth maintenance of international trade in goods is Hungary's fundamental interest in security of supply. Only with neighbouring countries last year, we made EUR 43 billion in trade flows. This clearly shows that we are living in a rather serious interdependence here with neighbouring countries. Therefore, if we could not guarantee the continuity of international trade in goods, we would also jeopardise the security of supply of the Hungarian population. [[16.50]] As far as commuting is concerned, our goal is to keep border communities as close as possible to each other. One of the phenomena of this is that many people across the border have jobs or land, and if they cannot go to work or go to work, it would obviously cause fundamental problems in their daily lives. That is why I can promise you that, in the case of both Serbia and Ukraine, we will try to allow commuting on these border sections as well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-208	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Can you expect the purchase of medical aid by e-recept? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[On Dr. Gurmai Zita's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-20-209	Yes, I accept and I would like to thank the Minister for his regular availability every week. If I had a wish, I'd ask the Minister of Health to do the same. Well, Mr Secretary of State, there are about 8,000 diabetics in Hungary today, and a total of one million people are forced to use medical aids. I'm asking for them today. I am pleased to see that the government has followed the proposal of the MSZP and simplified the replacement of the e-recepts, but unfortunately they have only done half the work: medical aids are still not possible to prescribe via the e-recepts. This is also a problem for two reasons: on the one hand, a large proportion of these are literally essential for patients, such as a test strip for diabetics, a needle or a diaper for adults; on the other hand, the delivery of the recipe requires physical contact between the patient and the doctor and the pharmacist, which is an extremely high risk of spreading the virus. It further increases the risk that the problem also affects people for whom coronal virus infection can be fatal due to the underlying disease. Last year, the government promised that the electronic health services system would introduce the electronic prescription of medical aids in the second half of 2020, and the information on this would specifically point out that the prescription of medical aids and medicines is largely the same. I would therefore like to ask when a change of legislation will be planned in order to ensure that the electronic prescription and replacement of medical aids can be resolved as soon as possible. How does the system for electronic substitution of medical aid work? When will this EGYSE system be suitable for the electronic prescription and replacement of aids? Are you planning on partially deploying the GYSE so that at least the persons at risk from the coronal virus are provided with the necessary equipment? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-20-210	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-20-211	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your question to the Member. And indeed, I do say this honestly, because this may be the last speech today, but perhaps the most forward and constructive suggestion. I'd like to skip the question of whose proposal it was, and I think it's more important to resolve the situation than to discuss it here. You and the government have probably been contacted by countless organizations, the organization of diabetics or other organizations, to provide additional help in this situation, as everyone in the pharmacy has now experienced this, and by announcing the number of IDs and farmhouses of their older relatives, anyone can replace their medicine, and indeed in many cases, especially in diabetics, but also in others, there are medical aids, not medicines, but medical aids, which would be good to replace. This is a very important goal and benefits in the longer term, which is why we have started preparing for it in IT and legal terms. There is a temporary solution: the prescriptions are now valid for more than 90 days, so the doctor can prescribe medical aids in a much higher dose, thus reducing the doctor-patient encounter. But what we really want is for everything to be digitally replaced in the future. That's gonna happen in two steps. The first stage, which is very close, is that the medical aids that can be obtained in the pharmacy are replaced in the pharmacy, because the pharmacy is already in this system, in this digital health system, only these medical aids need to be installed and will be replaced there from there. And then there will be the second step, which is obviously the bigger task, because we need to connect medical aid stores into this digital health system, and from then on they can publish them without prescription and without prescription. So the system that we have is going to work, and it can only be achieved in two steps, and since the most important tools are also available in the pharmacy, which you mentioned, Congresswoman, they are also, and we hope that it is very, very short time for us to be able to replace these various testing elements and medical devices for diabetes in the pharmacy that markets them. Thank you very much for your question, and we hope that we will be able to report back to you soon. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-212	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2020-04-20-213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is important now that you have made it very clear that you will find a solution in two steps, but I would still like to ask you when this is expected, because I think so too, and that is why I wanted to deal with it today, that it really affects a lot of people, we are really talking about a million people. So, accordingly, with great respect, I ask the Secretary of State that the. When? Answer the question. Thank you.
u2020-04-20-214	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The draft legislation of the first step has already been drawn up, which should only go through the administrative consultation; obviously now at a faster pace than the sham, as Parliament has provided such opportunities, but these legislation can also go faster in a normal timetable. We hope that, as soon as possible, it can really be measured in days and weeks when this legislation can be published. Meanwhile, it is obvious that medical aid distributors, shops, are also concerned about what will happen if patients or, more specifically, the patient's relatives, acquaintances who help with the extraction. It is therefore important for them, and it is important to reassure them that the faster they can connect digitally, the sooner the medical aid shops will be included in the digital order. They can now replace these medical aids with traditional paper replacements, and soon they will be able to be digitally replaced. In any case, I think it would have been the way of the future, even if there hadn't been a coronal virus epidemic sooner or later. Obviously, this is more important in the epidemic, because we may be able to better preserve the health of people, but we can certainly help that sick people, as you said, who are at increased risk of infection with the virus, can stay at home. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And their healthy relatives and acquaintances can help them in this, as well as in shopping, along with many others. Thank you again for your concern. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gurmai Zita applauds.]]
u2020-04-20-216	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. It's 16 hours and 57 minutes. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has requested an interpellation, this item will not be discussed. We are now continuing our work with a general debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber in order as provided for in the previously published Director General's Information. I would like to call on my fellow Members who have taken part in this debate to remain in the Chamber, if possible, only the Members who spoke in the debate and the two Members who asked for their subsequent speeches, in order to preserve the health of all of us. In order to facilitate this, the chair of the meeting should provide information on these matters, which I have now done. Dear Parliament, A general debate on support for the educational activities of the Maecenas Corvinus Collegium and the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation will follow. The government referral is T/10046. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-04-20-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before us is about higher education, education and talent, so I would like to give you a few thoughts on the issues of higher education and talent in general. The trends in the world and the technological change pose serious challenges to the whole education system, especially the higher education system and talent programmes for the most talented students. We believe that Hungary's competitiveness and the success of Hungary in general depend essentially on how the education system can respond to these changing trends, economic, labour market needs, social changes and, in some cases, how it can withstand these social changes. We are thinking about a complex system of education, higher education and talent management, which is a creative, flexible and competitive system for young people; here I would like to underline the word "educator" twice or three times, particularly with regard to the current bill. [[17.00]] And we believe that performance, success, and a sense of responsibility for society and the nation must also be the key to these structures. The system of education is a complex system, a structure, but we see it, and international experience shows that it is necessary to have an independent structure based on the existing elements of the education system, which is complementary to the identification of talent and the management of talent management, and it is very important to give this objective a priority. The guiding principles to be followed in each country are: social mobility; support for society and commitment to the nation; identify, train and support talent promises as young as possible and as widely as possible; build and develop a structure that develops beyond it, from primary school to higher education institution and even community; and, in our case, provide talent management opportunities specifically for Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin as a whole, and strengthen Hungarian-Hungarian relations. In recent years, however, as the Competitiveness Programme established on the basis of a proposal from the National Competitiveness Council has achieved significant success in both the transformation of higher education and the creation of quality requirements for higher education. I do not want to get into a party policy immediately, but if we look at the pay of higher education workers in the system inherited in 2010, we look at the competitiveness of the higher education system, we look at the situation of university infrastructure, we all see that we have had very serious problems, some of which we have managed to leave behind today, and by the way, other legislative proposals on the House's table are also here for the transition to the foundation formula, which are specifically designed to pay off debts that have been rolled out of the past as soon as possible. After all, I would like to point out to you in general that, while this change in the structure of higher education is taking place, while this programme for strengthening higher education and increasing competitiveness has been taking place in Hungary for many years now, while we need to specifically build a talented structure that raises the support of talented young people in the centre, not by creating another higher education institution, not by bringing them into another structure of higher education, because which of us could tell us whether the most talented are lawyers, economists, international professionals or even studying some real subject. We believe that the most talented students in all employment sectors, in all training areas, are there, so our task is to ensure that, in addition to their participation in the relevant higher education training, there is a programme that recognises their talents outside of this training system, which supports their training. This bill was drawn up from this approach and, as its title says, the Mathias Corvinus College and the Foundation operating the Corvinus University would have further support. The structure of the talent structure is the one that would affect the Mathias Corvinus College, and therefore the question arises as to why Mathias Corvinus Collegium will be supported. What I can tell you here in the first place is that the most important aspect in terms of efficiency and effectiveness can be to rely on the successful institutions already in place. This is what we have in mind at the moment, because we have to choose between launching a program of talent management from zero as a greenfield investment, or deciding to support the Mathias Corvinus College, which has been implementing the objectives along the lines of the previously formulated principles since 1996, and already operating a complex programme covering all the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin from primary school to higher education, and even beyond. If we look at the MCC's training programme, we can see that in the last almost quarter of a century, they have acquired such significant experience, expertise, domestic and international contact capital, a very wide scientific training spectrum with geographical coverage, which makes this institution unique not only in Hungary but also internationally. And that statement, I think, if you're watching the press, otherwise you can do it beyond party policy logic. Therefore, we are proposing to implement this talent management programme by relying on Mathias Corvinus College. The law would present you with a structure in which special support for highly talented young people would constitute a vital public interest, and in this spirit, although professional conditions are given, direction and concept are correct, the current resources of Mathias Corvinus College are not sufficient to effectively fulfil the role of the centre of highly talented young people. Therefore, the bill seeks to create these conditions by centralising the necessary professional and resource background. In our view, the best form of organisation to achieve these objectives is the management of the trust fund and major assets for one purpose. We can also say that this is an international model, most talented institutions, and that is how a significant part of higher education institutions operate both in Western Europe and overseas. The technical implementation of this concept is that, in accordance with the laws on national assets and state assets, the government joins the Tihanyi Foundation, which maintains the MCC on behalf of the State, and does so with the necessary asset relief. This accession to the Tihanyi Foundation takes place with a minimum capital and the necessary resources. It is a guarantee that accession and asset relief can only take place if the foundation is converted in a way that guarantees the State, and in the same way as in the case of a maintenance change of Corvinus University or other universities, the Board of Governors is designated to exercise the founding rights. So from now on, the foundation is a public-interest trust fund, founder's rights are exercised by the board, and the founders, who have so far been private founders, have operated a private foundation, will have no influence on the further operation of the foundation, only and exclusively the professional board, as Corvinus will be responsible for this. As I mentioned, the support of highly talented young people is considered by the law to be a public task, and it is ordered by MOL Plc. and the Richter Gedeon Nyrt. It transfers the ownership of 10-10 percent of its stock portfolio to this transformed foundation or to the property group located on Somló road, which is now partly home to the foundation. The aim is to ensure that the financial background of the operation is stable, continuous, and that in the long term this talent-care institution operates in a self-sufficient manner. There are significant guarantees in the proposal in terms of the public side, since, in the event of the intention to dispose of the shares, a right of purchase and a prohibition on disposal and debiting is laid down to ensure it. In the event of any disposal, revenue may be used solely for the performance of the public task. In the event of the termination of the foundation, all assets are returned to the State, and by this arrangement it is assured that this asset is always in the public interest of talent management, and that this property is always available to carry out this task, regardless of the form in which it is available. [[17.10]] In addition, the bill states that we are talking about a public task here, so the creation of a talent centre, and unfortunately, they are operating in a dormitory converted from a crappy, ex-workhouse, so it can be said that they do not meet these noble goals on a site. Therefore, in addition to the promotion of ownership and renovation, the public interest is also served by the fact that, under the law, the investment in the renovation of the building constitutes an investment in the general interest, and the related administrative matters are considered by the law to be of particular importance for the public interest and for the national economy. In addition, the law not only supports the talent management programme of Mathias Corvinus Collegium, but also supports the foundation operating the Corvinus University and managing a similar stock market in such a way that, at the moment, the stock market available to the foundation operating the Corvinus University is available in a trust relationship. The bill serves the purpose of taking possession of this stock market, just as in the case of the Tihanyi Foundation. The same guarantees that exist in the case of the Tihanyi Foundation, which I mentioned, are also available here; only for the performance of the public task, which means the operation of a higher education institution, can be used to pay dividends from property. The aim is to ensure a stable long-term operation, of course even if dividends do not provide sufficient revenue for this. There are situations like this, there are better days and worse days, there are better years and worse years. A structure and a system should be established in which the long-term operation of this higher education institution and the future talent centre will not be compromised. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The reasons why Corvinus University and why it is fortunate that Corvinus University receives such wealth, of course, if there is any doubt or question about this at a later stage in the debate, I am happy to be available. However, I think that there is a consensus, which goes beyond party policy logic and even political logic, that the Corvinus University is one of the citadels of economics education and partly social sciences in Hungary, and so all the support that will be provided in addition to supporting other universities, which will help the university operate and move forward in international rankings is an important and outstanding public interest. In short, this is what the bill is all about. I think this is a noble goal, and I hope for your broad support. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-218	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. The keynote speeches will take place by giving the floor first to Mrs Mária Kállai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-20-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Dear House, A very important measure of a nation's economy is, among other things, how it deals with talent, what it does to recognize talent, develop it and make it useful. Yes, it is very important to have the last expression, the exploitation, the putting in position, because it is an elemental interest for both the talented person and the nation to grow their work by means of the talents that bring it to the service of the nation. As the Secretary of State has put it, we can talk about a wide variety of talents, since, fortunately, today, not only institutional education, talent related to narrow subjects, but, in addition to institutional education, we can also say that the whole world can give us a training area with its complexity. In fact, it is also very important to give, as a talent-friendly medium can enhance the effects of school talent education, provide a real training area, a development environment and, of course, a field of utilisation. Our common goal is that the promise of talent will serve our nation as a truly successful, responsible citizen integrated in the community. Of course, in order to achieve the objectives, the instruments, the environment, the resources are very important, and I think that the essence of this proposal is actually here. It is important to highlight, as talent scientists put it, that exceptional talent, with the support of the training system, the family and the community, can actually become talent and talent. In the bill before us, both organisations have this principle. Dear Parliament, If we consider what has happened in Hungary over the last few years in terms of talent development, I think it is proven that we are on the right track, effectively. Over the past years, a system has developed from childhood to adulthood in terms of age, and in terms of so-called environment, foundations, out-of-school workshops, civil communities and economic operators are involved in talent raising and supporting talent. All of this lives at local level, at national level and at national level. It should be pointed out that Hungary's competitiveness and the success of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin depend essentially on the ability of education systems to meet the challenges and needs of the economic and social environment, and this is, of course, very closely linked to talent development. It is important to improve the overall competitiveness of the public education and higher education systems, but it is also important to give priority to the identification of talent and talent, as the Secretary of State has said, in an independent structure and thus specifically for this purpose. The basis for this structured talent management should be, we can say, an additional education and education system that promotes social mobility, supports commitment to society, to the nation, from primary school to secondary school, higher education institutions and even community in addition to its activities in Hungary and the Carpathian Basin. Allow some of the schemes that are closely linked to those proposed by this Act. The transition in higher education is a medium-term policy strategy, the related two-year action plan, the National Talent Programme, which defined the priority programmes for 20 years, the creative region, which we have recently learned as the most important systems that can focus on both present and future in the context of talent-economic society. In this line, this present proposal fits well, the proposal before us, in which the government submits a bill to support the training of internationally competitive Hungarian higher education and highly talented Hungarian young people. According to the draft, as Mr. State Secretary pointed out, the maintainer of the Corvinus University of Budapest, the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation, is the owner of securities in trust management, while granting the State the right to buy and dispose of and debit bans under the bill, the Mathias Corvinus Collegium itself, transformed into a public-interest trust fund, will also receive State assets for the performance of its public tasks. The submitted bill would entrust the Mathias Corvinus College with an extension of its activities to support highly talented young Hungarians, and the state will also contribute to the fulfilment of the public service tasks set out in the bill with the provision of adequate guarantees. After the adoption of the bill, the founder's rights will be exercised by the curatorium established by the State. A clear legislative objective is to ensure the long-term conditions for the effective implementation of the public task set out in the law. The results of Corvinus University are well known at both domestic and international level. May I have a few thoughts about Mathias Corvinus College? In addition to his place in the Hungarian talent development, he stands up in an international outlook. Collegium is not only a unique community of values in Hungary, but perhaps also in the world, and in the community there are highly talented young people who are really working to achieve important and valuable goals by creating a dynamically developing team. We can ask you what your uniqueness is all about. The world's talent institutions serve as a model, but they typically do not cover the entire spectrum of MCC activities, and they do not or are not intended to support social mobility or take action for the nation. The MCC's activity is therefore unicical at global level. [[17.20]] But what does de facto mean when this proposal is adopted? As we read in the Collegium press release, the Hungarian Government's bill submitted on 9 April provides the MCC with an unprecedented opportunity to expand its activities in both professional and geographical terms. During the period since the foundation of 96, our goals have not changed: by all means help talented young people to develop their professional development with this form of financing adapted to international trends, which is to manage the return of the stock held at the foundation's disposal, so it will be able to build, operate and further develop a talented program that will serve the Hungarian community for generations with its durability. What else is there to accept? The so-called FIT programme in primary school, the program of young talent, can help 3,000 students instead of the current 625, speaking in the language of numbers. It also provides an extension of the secondary school program, and can set up a centre next to the existing centre of the university program in Budapest and Cluj-Napoca for up to a thousand students instead of 200 students. Training focusing on groups in disadvantaged labour markets, postgraduate, post-doctoral programmes, publishing books, strengthening international and domestic conferences is an important issue and, as Mr State Secretary pointed out, infrastructure development is also an outstanding issue. All this is an inspiring and responsible commitment to the MCC community, whose work both the participants and the related parties are satisfied with. Allow me one thought. In my constituency, Szolnok, there is a FIT regional center of the College. I am constantly experiencing, I am well aware of the very exciting, creative, complex, practical employment and occupation with young talents that meet the needs of children today, I see the motivation of children, and there is excellent cooperation between the institutionalized system of public education and the talent development workshop. The competitiveness and performance of Hungarians with the support of talent are very serious and closely linked. Responsibility for society, responsibility for the nation is our common concern. On the basis of the above, I think that, as has been the case so far, with the support of the Parliament, by adopting the bill, we can take serious steps by assigning serious resources to talent development. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz faction supports further opportunities to develop talent as a national value and to provide resources for this. I would like to ask all my fellow Members with respect to the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-220	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kállai. I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-20-221	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I thought of the truth when I read this presentation, even because before this House is also the bill that Mr. State Secretary referred to in his expozee, which seeks to turn six Hungarian universities into foundations. As I explained in my speech at the time as a keynote speaker, there is neither a problem here nor a problem with the form of foundation, but I do not think that it is from the form of foundation that those arguments, which I consider to be rather over-substantiated to improve the quality of higher education and the quality of talent management, should be given to universities, and should provide universities with the right background for research and talent management, my fellow Members. But let us go a little further, for a few more thoughts, to the overall picture, because both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member with Fidesz started by trying to analyse the whole of higher education, so let me say again that it is an interesting method when we select an institution from all of our common assets and give it to him. The model of Corvinus University showed that when such a fortune is transferred, let's say, in the form of shares, as in the bill before us, on the one hand, there is a serious risk, which has now occurred in connection with the virus epidemic at Corvinus University, which is when there is not enough dividends to finance the university. On the other hand, it is obviously also a question of who appoints the members of the board, and from now on, what decisions this board makes. As I explained at Corvinus, the pattern showed that the academic leadership sphere, i.e. academic freedom and academic autonomy, is being pushed back by this type of reservation, the Corvinus University model. I think this is bad, and it does not point towards quality, but it points in the direction that a government-appointed curatorium decides on living and dead, as it did last June, where a new president was elected at Corvinus University, or a new organizational and operational code has been drawn up in such a way that the Senate has not been able to make a meaningful statement about it. It's the wrong way, I think. But let us move on to talent management, as both the Secretary of State and my fidesz fellow Member have been trying to tell us about this with rather large, seedy ideas, a kind of success propaganda. Here, let me refer back to the fact that 20 years ago, the number of candidates in the university world has fallen to unprecedented depths, including because of the fidesz anti-knowledge and intellectual policy of the last ten years, because talented but poor young people are constantly being pushed out of higher education by your policies. After all, it was maintained until the last moment, and finally, when they saw their entire system fail for good, they also dissolved the government decree of language examination criteria, which specifically excludes young people from higher education from a talented but poorer family who do not have the money for a private teacher, if Hungarian public education is not able to convey the type of language knowledge that is necessary for all the various reasons. So I think that these large-scale introductions should be held back a little bit now, because it is quite comical to listen to them, while 30 rural faculties are in existential danger because so few have applied to them. So I think that a little more modesty, let's say, when introducing such a proposal, I think that the country's public opinion now deserves some professionalism, too. Returning to talent-care, I think that talent-care in the university world is a priority. Until the massing of higher education started in the early nineties, practically the whole higher education was a kind of talented care, since 9 percent of the 18-23-year-olds entered the university world in 90, and nowadays, according to various methodologies around 50 percent, this proportion is the same, and we have to respond to that, of course. I, as an ex-college leader, am the first to support this. At the same time, we are slowly approaching Gretchenfrage to see why the MCC, so why the Mathias Corvinus Collegium, which is an excellent college, by the way, should not be misunderstood. I personally know excellent colleagues from there, I regularly attend his events, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung sends a lot of politicians there. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm just gonna ask you one more time why Mathias Corvinus Collegium doesn't give you the kind of honest colleges, let's say the Fidesz government, who's been taking care of talent for a long decade. I would also refer, say, to the Bibó István College, from which the founders of certain parties derive themselves, although Bibó's various quotes are now not so much remembered in their policies. So I think, when we are really talking about, according to the bill before us, this institution's transfer and uplifting of state assets means that this must become an institution such as the Academy of Sciences or the National Museum, I think it is a kind of overshoot of the otherwise excellent college. I think that this is not the way to create a truly prominent institution within the professional college system. [[17 .30]] Maybe it's not a coincidence that Mathias Corvinus College didn't go through that accreditation like almost all the other colleges in our country. I don't think that's a coincidence either. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is clear that this is clearly the case that the issue of Mathias Corvinus Collegium is perhaps not a coincidence because the founder and curator of the institution were former creditors of Árpád Habony, and his joint company with Lőrinc Mészáros sells advertising times of public media, TV2 and ATV. You didn't? Yeah, obviously. It's even more obvious than the sun. I have repeatedly asked the Secretary of State to take the Hungarian Parliament at least a little seriously in such cases, when such legislative proposals are brought before us, and not to read here the explanations from the production novel that have been written to you, because this is completely uncredited, honourable Members. So it's completely discredited. The Mathias Corvinus Collegium is an excellent institution as a professional college, but it is not necessarily necessary to select him for it, and I said the same thing to the Corvinus University; these Corvinus are just like that, so that they can practically get a priority role that I think there are no justifications, because there are a lot of professional schools that work excellently, but we do not think that it is going into such a completely selected role. In summary, we cannot support this proposal in the name of Jobbik. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-222	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-04-20-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before giving the lead speech, allow me to make a comment. We have a report that Jobbik wants to make a fortune to the Bibo College. Thank you very much for the suggestion. Quality, competitive public education and higher education have been a priority for the national government since 2010. The future of Hungary and the Hungarian people depends, among other things, on the success and competitiveness of the Hungarian education system. Hungarian education has always been at the forefront of the world, and Hungarian scientists, inventors and Nobel Prize winners born and educated in the Carpathian Basin have changed the history of the world with their scientific discoveries, inventions and works. We Hungarians were able to adapt to the challenges of the changed world a hundred years ago, when, thanks to Kunó Klebelsberg's education policy, Hungary started a large-scale school- and university-building program, thus establishing the economic growth and development of the next era. Today, since 2010, the aim of the national government has been to develop an efficient, competitive, talent-friendly, innovative system of public education and higher education, where value-centredness plays a role and is not based on an empty, value-free, value-neutral, liberal approach. CHAPTER XXI In the rapidly changing world of the 20th century, new, previously unknown challenges are emerging and education systems need to find the right answers. Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Socialists introduced tuition fees in higher education, indebted universities, and in public education they put 14,000 teachers on the streets, closed more than 100 schools, and gathered more than 700 schools, with which the local school ceased in a thousand settlements. This was the blessed activity of the Gyurcsány government. In contrast, a number of new university campuses, colleges have been built or renewed in the last ten years. Compared to 2009, 2 thousand more students graduated in 2019 and 1,200 more teachers are present in higher education. At the same time, the aim of the national government and the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary majority is to give the graduates competitive, real knowledge, and not only the number of students should be high in themselves, but also the number of graduates. The quality of Hungarian public education and Hungarian higher education is also praised by the fact that they have given qualified young people, thanks to which the Hungarian economy has recovered in recent years and has grown steadily. In the last two years, economic growth has been 5 percent. However, further development now requires further changes and changes. Recognizing this, the Hungarian government created a medium-term policy strategy for changing degrees in higher education, in which it expressed its intention and government support to strengthen, modernise and renew Hungarian higher education. This includes identification of talent and the priority of talent management. The success of an educational system is largely expressed by its ability to recognize and support talent. The aim of talent management is to ensure that talent promises can serve the nation, the community, as a responsible citizen with its potential, in addition to being a foundation for their personal success. The promotion of highly talented young people is a matter of major importance for the success of Hungary and of all Hungarians, which is a fundamental and decisive task of the governments of the time. I can personally give you a good opinion about the Mathias Corvinus College and the Tihanyi Foundation that operates it. I attended many of their events. I would particularly like to highlight political schools across borders as activities. I have participated on several occasions in such forums, and I am convinced of professionalism, I am convinced of value-orientedness, and I am also convinced that the mission that you have completed since 1996 is an important and essential mission for Hungarian society. So I also replied to Mr Brenner Koloman's question about the need to select a professional college that has worked for several decades. The Mathias Corvinus Collegium has been in operation for 24 years, so as Hungary's largest multidisciplinary talent education institution, there is also the decade-long past that Jobbik has challenged. From the age of 10 to the end of the university, talented young people learn within the framework of the MCC. The special disciplined training of the MCC complements and strengthens the forms of public education and university education, and what I personally consider to be very important, and Mr.Secretary also emphasized, forms communities, builds communities, strengthens communities here, Hungary and across the border, in Hungarian communities across the border. I would like to highlight this in any case. The bill before us greatly transforms the funding of the MCC, which allows them to expand the training sites and the number of young talents involved in the trainings throughout the Carpathian Basin. The MCC plans to replace the current seven youth centres with 35 in the Carpathian Basin in years, as well as the MCC's boarding school in Budapest, to open a further week, which will increase the number of co-workers from 200 seats to a thousand. I think that university colleges, colleges offering meaningful, good, useful pastimes and community are needed in private, state or church reservations in Budapest and major university cities. We have urged this many times before. I think that the college building programme and the government agreement signed with the National Conference of Students' Local Governments and the current bill also serve these parts. Within the framework of the new form of financing, the foundation operating the MCC receives 81.9 million MOL shares and 18.6 million Richter shares, which could amount to approximately HUF 260-280 billion in shares. As a result, the trust trust fund operating the MCC will be secured for many decades in the case of proper management of the stock package. The method by which universities, talent-care and educational institutions are run by trust funds is a successful practice in Western Europe and North America, which is worth taking over. In doing so, foundations operating institutions will be given autonomy, freedom and opportunity to operate on a competitive market basis and will not depend on a limited amount of State aid. At the same time, this model places a great deal of responsibility on the shoulders of foundations. I would like to stress that this opportunity also entails a great responsibility for the foundations. They must learn to live with this responsibility and learn to farm properly. This bill also provides the building of the Balassi Institute next to the current MCC to the foundation operating the MCC. Allow me to make a small remark to my better fellow Member. If we succeed somewhere, and if we can make progress somewhere in the interests of the Hungarian nation, it is not propaganda, honourable Member. We should be happy together if we've made progress somewhere. If the figures have improved, the figures have improved, the situation has improved in some respects in Hungary in a section of society, some progress has been made here and there in education, these should not be called propaganda in a demeaning way, they should be called production reports with various indicators, but the common successes, whoever achieves it, always count as a Hungarian success. We always believe that what this government has created and achieved is not the success of the government or Fidesz-KDNP so independently, but the success of the Hungarians as a whole. [[17.40]] In the light of this approach, we are also trying to engage in parliamentary politics here. These are also all-Hungarian successes, which we have been able to report over the past ten years, and I think that with this story we can establish another Hungarian success. The KDNP fraction supports it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-224	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-04-20-225	I would like to begin with a modest remark: I like the comments made by Congressman Nacsa because it does not surprise me. So the first 10-15 minutes are always the same; it's true, but we can listen at least every time. It's a poverty certificate, though, if a pro-government representative keeps pointing back after ten years of government. Now, let's not talk about that, but let's really talk about the bill, because the bill is really remarkable. There are basically two parts, and I would like to talk relatively little on one side, which concerns changes to the foundation that maintains Corvinus University. I suppose they put this in this bill to see if there's any honey on the string, see if there's anything that you can look positive on. To be honest, it is possible to note from the opposition side that when the debate took place here on the establishment of this form of foundation, we have said, together with several fellow Members, that, well, this is not really figured out yet, the details are not clear, this thing is not fully fixed; it is all right, the government is now clarifying it. At the same time, the Secretary of State did not answer the question, but he has just made a promise which I would very much like to collect to report, so be kind as to see how the construction that provides the maintenance of the Corvinus University, including the state, essentially state contribution, state aid through equity allocation. How does this work in a situation where these stock prices don't yield, if I can see that they're not doing well? What returns do these shares make, to what extent do they contribute to the financing of Corvinus? And in general, in the debate on the introduction of new forms of foundation, we have not been answered, and in this debate I would also be very excited to hear how the government believes this form of foundation has worked out financially, and, I would add, more importantly: from the point of view of students. But I don't want to talk about that anymore, because I can say that this is a technical change in itself that the government has forgotten to justify, so it would be expected that we would be given proper justification for this type of change, but, let me say, I don't suppose that there would be some bad intentions behind it, that they would certainly correct some previous design error. The other half of the proposal is much more problematic. Because, of course, talent management is an important issue for all of us, but it can only be done in several ways. It can be done by putting in place a system that truly serves the care of talent. Certainly few of my fellow Members were here at the time, but perhaps in 2008 or 2009 the proposal of the Gyurcsány government came before Parliament on the programme of the National Talent, which the Parliament was then able to adopt unanimously, with the support of both sides. And that was because we were able to make a proposal, not based on our own infinite wisdom, but in cooperation with civil society organisations, taking into account their proposal, which, by the way, provided public resources and operating methods in a pro-party, professionally justified and equal opportunities. This was the solution used at that time, during the Gyurcsány government, which was perhaps less popular with Congressman Nacsa, because talent management is indeed a matter which is basically a national matter, which should be highlighted from the ranks of party political battles, and where solutions need to be sought that are not politically suspicious in any way and, at the same time, professionally unattractive, can be protected and unbreakable. Well, that's not a suggestion. Because let me be clear: Mathias Corvinus Collegium is indeed a well-known and high-quality institution, there is no debate between us. But this institution is committed and traditionally a conservative, right-wing institution. This is true, it is shown not only by the mergers that my fellow Member, Brenner Koloman, has already mentioned, but also by the founder of this foundation, Mr Tombor András, in many ways, ties to Fidesz in his business relations, in his businesses, or indeed in the fact that Árpád Habony's private creditor, as we learned during a NAV investigation, has also made a number of commitments in addition to this, according to his own declaration, which promote and support the political goals of the right. Well, let me get one of these out of you, just because of your personal curiosity. For example, the MCC, together with the other government-funded, abundantly stuffed research institute, created the Migration Research Institute, which, on its professional basis and impartiality, says a lot about the fact that he was the Secretary-General of State at the same time. So what we must say, and it is still the most important task to this day, is that the government's migration policy, in Hungarian, is trying to support the government's empty propaganda campaign on migration in a pseudo-scientific manner. Well, that's the performance that the Migration Research Institute and the MCC put on the table behind it. That's what they gave the MCC their support for, of course not their money, because they got that money back from the government through another window. But in this way, the MCC created a pseudo-independent research centre to support government policy. And, well, she's not the only cadre who came from there, because she's also Deputy State Secretary Zsófia Rácz, or I'm sorry, miss, she's also from the MCC, and she's been raised there for this excellent government position. But there's nothing wrong with that, I might add, there's nothing wrong with a private private foundation pursuing clear political goals. It's your right, it happens to other private people, but you put these other private people on a billboard, if they serve political purposes that you don't like. That's the difference. But they don't do it right, and we wouldn't do it right if we attacked Mr. Tombor or the MCC because he's a conservative institution. But we are attacking it, and we consider it a bit of a sham that you now want to create a quasi-state institution with state money, with the foundational technique that then removes this kind of institution from control. In English, they push a lot of state resources, that's what the share allocation means, in order to form cadres, to build the intellectual base of the right, and then they say, "Yeah," but otherwise, it's a foundation that the state has nothing to do with. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me be clear, this is, as you say, a classic institution for the loss of public wealth. Less complicated, to say the least, it's theft, it's the gutters of state money for party purposes. This proposal is nothing but to create large-scale foundation cadres for Fidesz on the state's money from here on out. Now it's not just going to be a public research facility, there's going to be a state talent program. Because if you really want to work on talent management, then I am obliged to join my fellow Member: there would also be a number of specialised schools available. There is only one very important difference between those colleges and this college, and it is clear that in those colleges there is student self-government, there is considerable autonomy for students, and they can decide on a series of issues. It was this professional college spirit that raised Fidesz, then its liberal leaders, and it is this professional college spirit that today's conservative right-wing leaders of Fidesz do not ask for. You want a state monopoly in talent management, not a state, a fidesz monopoly in talent management, plus KDNP, but I always forget that, because it's not so important, so you want a fidesz monopoly in talent management, and you want to push in a big carload of public money in the form of shares. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you how to try this, Mr. Matolcsy has tried, he hasn't been very successful; there is also a large, state-funded religious college network, but it doesn't seem to be enough; we need another Janicsar teacher, another cadre trainer for Fidesz, I think, in the hope that this way will raise the talented young people with hope to the right. I'm gonna add, I'm gonna tell you right now, it's not gonna work. [[17.50]] These types of experiments always fail, let's say, the system of Lenin institutions back in the day, which was a very similar initiative, they don't work. [[To Dr. Balázs Orbán:]] My dear Secretary of State, you're smiling in vain. And let me draw your attention to one more pearl... Yeah, two more pearls. One of the gems is that, of course, all investments will become a priority investment, so in Gellérthegy, the most critical part of Budapest, it will be possible to build without any local government contribution and essentially without any meaningful impact assessment and environmental approval; it will certainly succeed, as will all these other priority projects. And the gem I left at the end: by the way, this legislation eliminates the conflict of interest that state leaders cannot take up office in the board of directors of this type of foundation, they cannot be members, and in Hungarian it allows state leaders to participate in the board of directors of this institution I also have tips on who is the one who is applying for it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is an unacceptable proposal.
u2020-04-20-226	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-04-20-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am not going to take advantage of you, but I would like to respond in a few thoughts to what the Members and gentlemen have said in addition to thank you very much for your supporting contributions. I would like to point out, therefore, that I would just like to focus on the material errors that have been mentioned in the speeches, that the National Talent Programme is in operation, and I would even like to say to Mr Arató that there is much more money and support in the National Talent Programme than there was before 2010. As regards personal involvement, it is true that I was the head of the Migration Research Institute, it is only good to see that the professional work in Mathias Corvinus College is impeccable. I would like to make it clear that the Migration Research Institute does not support the government's migration policy, but its nation, and if that is your problem, because at the moment it is the migration policy supported by the majority of the nation that the Democratic Coalition does not like, and which is a subject of constant criticism, until you and the Democratic Coalition agree with the activities of that research institute, I think they are doing the right thing. One more point: I do not know why it does not bother the Member at all that those unfortunate children are in a crappy workhouse at the moment. I understand that you miss the permanent loss of the working house, so it may be painful that the positions of the communist nomenclature will continue to run out, but I believe that once again this is a particularly fortunate development in terms of the growth of the Hungarian nation. And if we declare the demolition and reconstruction of the working house here, in front of the Hungarian Parliament, a priority for the national economy, and, moreover, a priority for public interest, because it serves educational policy purposes, this is the end of the system change. And when you say that there's any problem with that, it means that you're comfortable with labor nostalgic nostalgia. The other is how you manage the state's wealth: let us look at the state's wealth; what has been the fate of 10 percent of MOL's shares so far. Because between 2002 and 2010, you were able to do one thing with this state's wealth: squandering and playing through the Austrians into the hands of the Russians, a strategic company. That's what you've done with this national fortune. What did we do after 2010? We recovered it from the contribution of the Hungarian people. So what did we do now? Because, by the way, we've strengthened the company, by the way, MOL has acquired regional positions. So what do we do now? We define a public mission, a public mission beyond party policy logic, and this reclaimed wealth that you have played into the hands of the Russians, we're going to use it to provide talent. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] So if you want to create any conspiracy theory with this, that is, of course, the right of your heart, but it is worth remaining on the ground of the facts for any such speech. I was thinking a little bit when all opposition speakers said that it was an excellent institution, but... former British Conservative Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had this saying that if I flew through the Thames, then my critics would attack me by saying that I was sure I couldn't swim, that's why I did it. So I had this thought, too, while listening to you, because you said that we needed to support a talented institution for decades; what we need is to support an excellent institution, too, according to both opposition speakers; and you ask why it is not another professional college. That's because the MCC is more than a department right now. We talked about the elementary school program. It's been working for years. Personal occasions, e-learning system at six locations and across the border, involving 600 students. We would add this to 3500 students and 19 Hungarian and 16 foreign courses. We talked about the high school program. It has been operating since 2002 and is also a distance education and personal presence, in the centre of Budapest, in the centre of Cluj-Napoca, in the center of Székelyudvarhely. 1,800 people are involved, but the institution is planning to expand the program to 4,000 people. Then it's a campus program: there are 150 poor kids living in the workhouse, and there's only a residential system. Here, if I can see clearly the training programme that the organization has put out and published, we are talking about 1500 students, and it would be placed in 1,000 residential forms. What better serves the cause of social mobility and talent management, if not this? In addition, there are postgraduate courses, international network of contacts, foreign presence, publishing activities. With all due respect, I would like to ask Members, whether Congressman Brenner or Congressman Arato, to say something better. Give me a better one. Tell me one that can outperform this already existing performance. The thing is, they won't be able to say that, so all the criticism you've said is politically motivated and completely uncredited. Moreover, the bill makes it quite clear that no matter who founded this institution, no matter what private founder's purposes it was, the government's accession means that it will be transformed into a trust of public interest, and from then on the former founders will have nothing to do with the operation of this institution. And what I would add is that if all the wealthy people would do for the country is to build such talent-care programs in a private foundation in 25 years, this country would be far ahead of where it is today. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-20-228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes.
u2020-04-20-229	My dear Secretary of State, your memory is obviously a little incomplete on account of your age, so you don't remember that it was this House that prevented the Russians from acquiring dominant property in MOL in 2008, so I would like to point out that this was the other way around, as you remember, but I don't want to tell you the classic joke about the difference between division and looting. More importantly, here I am being attacked by the Secretary of State by the fact that I am not happy about the workhouse being demolished or what the hell. Dear Secretary of State. Did I move that dormitory to the workhouse? Why don't you argue with the man who moved you to the Labor House? I will be pleased if a good higher education institution is built, but I ask that the relevant construction and environmental rules be respected. Because if they get public money, they can afford to build a high-quality building. Your favorite public procurement winners will earn a little less than usual. The problem is that with this kind of business interest, it always happens to be used to make more money by the Fidesz-near oligarchs on this thing. We agree, of course, that I would be happy to have other Oligarchs close to Fidesz give us money for public purposes on this, and that would really help the country. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, you say that the change of regime will come when there is a different college instead of the working-house barracks. That's not when the change of regime comes. [[18.00]] Then you will come, Mr. Secretary, if no government will ever be one who imagines himself to be the same as the nation. If no government thinks that anyone who thinks otherwise than him is not a part of the nation, it does not belong to the nation. Because this is what will happen when there is indeed democracy in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-230	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. The next announced speaker was Mr Barna Sigmond, Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-20-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to make a brief comment on the legislation before us. This legislation represents the institutionalisation of a talent centre with significant results, so it is not a professional college. As has been said in several cases, Hungary's competitiveness depends to a large extent on the quality of education. Many Hungarians live in Hungary and the Carpathian Basin, who, if they have the right opportunity to learn, can stand their ground in the global competition that has developed within and beyond the European Union. Talent can not only be trained in universities, but also in university training centres where young people can train themselves in other areas, learn languages and get extra opportunities in general. As has been said, the Mathias Corvinus College, operating in the maintenance of the Tihany Foundation, has been implementing these objectives since 1996, namely talent management, training and training of outstanding students. Mathias Corvinus Collegium has acquired significant experience, expertise and international contact capital that can be clearly suited to this opportunity for further development. It has also been said that it is not only about higher education, it is also different from the university of Mathias Corvinus Collegium, that it not only provides talented university students, but also tries to offer development to all sectors of society, not only through education, as there are charitable programs, competitions and conferences in the repertoire. Collegium also provides training for younger age groups, for which the most talented students in each region can apply, and the Collegium provides a variety of training courses. My fellow Member, Mária Kállai, also said that the Secretary of State also said about the programmes and programmes announced by the College, either for the. Young Talent Programme or for the high school programme or for the university programme. I would also like to mention the programme "Roma talent," which is also carried by the MCC, and which provides education and opportunities for young people of the most talented Roma origins. The series of international conferences organised by the MCC is also significant. I would like to mention here the conference on migration and family affairs, which were the most successful international conferences in the region and brought Hungary's good news to the world. It has been said in many cases that it provides opportunities and training for talented rural students with a more modest destiny, and there are training centres across borders. Today we heard our fellow Member, Timea Szabó, crackling up against the people from across the border, and in a newspaper called Népszava, we read the discussion of Gábor Bruck, who was the former campaign manager of SZDSZ and Gábor Demszky, who spoke to rural people in an indeterminate tone. So I think, unfortunately, there are parties on the left, organisations that can't do anything with Hungarians and rurals across the border. [[Gergely Harvester's intervention. Z. Carpathian Daniel: What's it to you? You're kidding.]] In many cases they turn against rurals, so it is no wonder that this College is also attacked, which thinks in a nation, and has set itself the goal of helping young people with rural talent. It is important that there is a growing lack of community within universities in the left-wing system. These colleges can provide a community for university students. In addition to the possibility of further training, it is important that these communities are formed for university students. And what is important is what has been said on several occasions, Mr Secretary of State has also spoken about it, the international relationship system that the MCC has. I would like to react very briefly to my fellow Member Brenner Koloman. He said King Matthias died, the truth is gone. King Mátyás was born in Cluj Napoca, so we should discuss with Timea Szabó's coalition partner how the opposition now thinks about King Mátyás, considering that he was born across borders, what the idea of him or what the official position is. I also didn't understand exactly that if there are bad higher education and new ideas, then what is really the problem now: that there is bad higher education or that if there are new ideas, then there is also a problem. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Not that an average Hungarian youth can't get in and can't pay the tuition, that's the problem.]] So it's all wrong, and actually on the call to give you new ideas, but there's no new idea what it is that you could do in this situation. In our view, it's not that bad or bad. You refer to all kinds of statistics. In our view, the situation is much better than in previous years. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: 20,000 fewer people can audition than a year ago! Statistics! The president's ringing the bell.]] , the quality of higher education in Hungary has improved, and these transformations serve to improve further, to be competitive on the international stage and to try to take international examples that have worked in other countries. And indeed, it is also important that higher education should follow labour market processes. So, if there are any majors where they don't apply, you have to think about the new challenges that are worth responding to, and that should be ahead of you in order to keep as many as possible studying at universities. I would only respond very briefly to my fellow harvester. It's probably what's bothering you, as you said, that it defines itself as a conservative spiritual workshop in a nation. I don't wonder if that's what's bothering you. This does not belong to Fidesz, a spirit workshop representing a national conservative idea. There is a reason for such a thing, however much they think that I know that there is no justification for this, only the liberal idea has a right to exist. [[Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] I don't think so. There is a reason for existence, there is a role, there is also the importance of the conservative national idea, and there is a need for spiritual workshops that represent this position, this ideology, if you will. The attack by the Migration Research Institute also did not surprise me, as you also constantly deny the fact of illegal migration, and also the quota system, so you believe that there is no migration, this is not a real danger, this is not a real problem, we do not have to deal with this. And there's no mandatory quota, there's no need to deal with that, it's not real. This is contrary to the last judgment of the European Court of Justice, since, unfortunately, there is such a quota against which Hungary is fighting for the benefit of the Hungarian people. And it is not true that it withdraws the stock market from State control because it has been described in detail by the Secretary of State as to what kind of disposal-load ban is to be registered, what guarantees serve to ensure that this is not withdrawn from the system of state assets. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And then what?]] The state assets that Fidesz recovered, as Mr. State Secretary mentioned, for the Hungarian State, since the former governments had irresponsiblely privatised these strategic state companies before 2010. Overall, I support the bill, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-20-232	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-04-20-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have infinite respect for Mrs Mária Kállai, State Secretary Balázs Orbán, and indeed also to my colleague Barna Pál Zsigmond, and I deeply appreciate the deep faith that the government has in its proposals of this kind. We've learned in ten years that nothing in Fidesz can happen without any financial interest behind it. If this proposal had come in 2011-2012 and could have come in, since we have this College since 96, I think 80 percent of the Members would have voted blindly. But in ten years, everyone here has learned how to fideste. And while the Member lady and Mr or Minister of State have highlighted the purely educational and talent-care part of this proposal, and someone has written the speeches from this aspect, they are hiding the very objective that is included in this proposal. In order to be a quality teaching, to be talented, to give children with poor fates the highest level of education, young children of our countrymen across the border would not have to be transferred into ownership. You shouldn't! You can give it to asset management. The investment we are talking about will be financed by the Hungarian state, not the foundation. And when it is about the fact that, although Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond is right that there is a ban on disposal, there is the abolition of the right to buy if the Board of Directors of the Foundation wants to sell the property, and within 90 days, the state does not declare an external offer, so it is not a matter of asking permission to sell it or of selling it to the Hungarian State alone. [[18.10]] No, no, no, no! The point is that the external offer must be presented to the Hungarian State. That is, if the curatorium, which will consist exclusively of fidesz, faithful people, finds out the day after tomorrow or when the investments are made, that the wealth, even if the educational activity is going to take place, is transferred to someone else, and the man, the representative of the Hungarian state, does not declare it for 90 days, then he can easily play this fortune. And if my fellow Members, fellow pro-government Members and Secretary of State do not see these risks, then let us not refer here to talent management and to the legislative militia surrounded by wonderful glaze, but let us say that this is not, in itself, the further development of this talent-care programme, but rather that this government would like to continue its political and economic power in every segment when it may no longer govern in Hungary. In the last two years, when there was a transfer of assets to the private sector or even to such a foundation, there were elements in each of them in order to achieve the continuation of power. And then we didn't talk about curators. It has not been two weeks, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, that I have told you, in connection with the other previous proposal, that, until such a proposal is laid down, the selection of curators must be accompanied by what topic, mechanism, professional basis; until such a proposal is defined, that curators can only be appointed for a limited period of time, since we know that curators cannot be cancelled in Hungary, if they are not determined for a fixed period, this means that Corvinus University, economics education and this talent-care programme will continue for an unlimited period of time after the Orbán government. I have nothing else to read from this proposal. Because if it really was just the program, if it were just the improvement of circumstances, if it were only the development of the infrastructure of the talent-care programme, then there would be no part of the trusting proposal, and there would be a methodology, mechanism for selecting the curatorium, and, if possible, the presentation of cross-border experts in whom society as a whole trusts. The very elements that could build trust are missing from this proposal. And I must tell you, both my fellow Members and the Secretary of State, I will be incredibly sorry for you when you face reality one day. Incredibly, because believe me, there comes a time when it turns out that what the opposition has raised is a potential future problem. And one thing I ask of you, at least then acknowledge to yourselves that it is possible that we believed too blindly. In fact, I ask that in all cases where it is clear that wonderful, great topics, institutions that are important to society, value-creating communities, are simply used for asset transfer and position insurance, maintenance, cementation, not one of them, many of them, I wish that they never happen, which is potentially included in these proposals; that this wealth should never be owned by anyone else; that it should never be revealed that it is actually a prolongation of sovereignty. I wish that none of us ever, ever had to face the fact that we really believed in something blindly. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-234	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes.
u2020-04-20-235	Thank you very much. I would just like to clarify a misunderstanding, because even though I said it in my previous two-minute comment, it may not have been quite clear. I don't have a problem with the fact that there's a conservative right-wing talent facility. I have a problem with the government choosing such an institution and filling it with public money. The State has its own system of higher education institutions, if it has resources, then it should provide resources for this. Because, unlike the former institution, students can go to the latter institution with any kind of political idea, and if this were a free-functioning higher education, of course, it would be limited, then there would be a variety of views within the institution itself. State money must be spent in a party-neutral manner. There could be another way. It's a liberal solution. The government's entire higher education policy is going in a liberal direction. It is very funny for me to hear from you ideas that had to be reflected in discussions with SZDSZ coalition partners. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Only they did it wrong.]] But you're going in a liberal direction. So there is also a solution that says that we do not choose this solution, that the state itself keeps the institutions in place, and that within its own institutions tries to create quality talent care, either with the existing college system, or in other ways, because it could be a state-functioning model, but says that okay, then there are many types of private, civil initiatives, and then there will be a right-wing and left-wing, and grief knows what it is, and then they can have equal access to resources. Both of them are working democratic solutions that you are doing, but that is building a party state. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Kárpát's speech was followed by the Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-20-237	Mr President, Dear House, I myself am confused about the professional part of the debate, because this is a legitimate debate in front of the House, and absolutely the strengthening of the state-based model is versus the various outsourcings, it is a legitimate debate in the world, and I myself am a little odd about how a state-of-the-art confessional government could go to the side that moves towards the dismantling of the state and the outsourcing of assets, but that should be your conscience's problem. What bothers me in particular is what my fellow Member, Mr Barna, said. So, in relation to the counter-opinion, to use such qualifications and liberalize the opposing judge to the very one who moves in a liberal direction and changes the former system on the basis of liberalism is quite amazing, my fellow Member. You should not refer to the national side, because what you are doing is not necessarily a national idea of something in the background, but simply a replay of assets. That's what I'm talking about. And you, your party from the Liberal Internationale, don't think we don't remember what you did. They left this House at the Trianon Memorial. On what basis do you refer to the national side? The real national side kicked you out of it a thousand years ago, and that's how it's gonna stay. Hungary has seen such a serene, servile government in terms of economic policy a long time ago. Where is the national side here, my fellow Member? ! Even during the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, multi-business companies were not awarded this amount of unwarranted unilateral support, even though it was a high school of economic self-destruction against multinational companies. You guys were able to outdo that. It's pretty amazing. And you're referring to the national side? Are you bringing migration issues into such a debate when whose prime minister was it who signed a final document on the implementation of quota-like solutions, my fellow Member? Who was that? It was Viktor Orbán. What are you talking about? ! Then what happened? They turned the Keleti railway station into the Middle Eastern railway station, and left the migrant masses here next to the great chinnadrat, who were then allowed to walk out of the country. And what did they do? They started selling settlement bonds. [[For signal:]] Press the button, my fellow Member, and explain why you needed the settlement policy. Why was it good to sell the hall of Hungarian citizenship for Hungarian forints, money and euros? This is the national side, do you think? Is that the national idea? Making everything money? Is this the national side? Then we're definitely not on the same page, I've been on the national side since I was a kid, and I'm asking myself that you refer to that. I would also like to say that more than 100,000 foreign workers and migrant workers were organized in Hungary instead of trying to restore the reproductive conditions here. [[18.20]] And I have to say, although there has been a rhetorical shift in this, but in the most important area, too, in the demographic field, unfortunately, they have failed, I wish they hadn't been able to improve any demographic indicators. And I must tell you that if it is a national page, you can also account for the fact that your patrons, therefore those who have been accepted into this country temporarily or in the longer term, will be given a lecture on the possibilities of recording the CSOK. Is this the national side of your interpretation? Is that the national idea? I would expect something quite different from you and, by the way, from the entire Parliament. These are legitimate professional debates that are ahead of us, but you're bombing this thing, tearing it apart with so primitive and pathetic signs that your own course of action has criticized and disproved hundreds of thousands of times. Well, we cannot associate this series of wind-cock turns that you have done with examples of Hungarian parliamentarism. It's unprecedented to get from the Liberal International, the exit from the Trianon event to where you are. The thing is, we don't have to do the numbers here, Mr. Secretary. Well, I'm not the one who has to explain the certificate. I have not allowed any migrants into Hungary; I have not sold any bonds to aliens for their right of residence; I am not responsible for any forints, Mr. Secretary of State. Look at you guys, where you've gone in ten years, how many billion forints have been sent out of the Hungarian budget! I'm not the one who's supposed to do the numbers. Give me a number and then refer to the national side if this account is done with honor. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Mr. President, I would like a two-minute...]] Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: Mr. President!]] No sign of him, Congressman. [[Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul intervenes.]] Okay, here you go, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Pál Sigismund Brown in two minutes.
u2020-04-20-239	Thank you very much, Mr President, I apologise, but very briefly, Mr. Z. Carpathian to Daniel, since he has been personal with me here. I don't doubt that you're thinking in a nation, but I can see that you're constantly fighting with your conscience. It can't be easy for you. It can't be easy for you, because that Szabó Timea is your coalition partner, who here today presented to Parliament what he is capable of, and that Momentum is his coalition partner, who supports Romanian parties and Slovak parties in neighbouring countries [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And that Democratic Coalition is his coalition partner, whose leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, turned against his own nation in 2004. It can't be easy for you. I do not question your good intentions and national thinking, but you should discuss with your own conscience what these coalition partners mean to you when you think about a national strategy, a nation. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-20-240	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes.
u2020-04-20-241	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I did not want to comment on this debate, but it is quite a knife opener, as has been said. Mr. Congressman and Mr. Secretary of State, when it comes to protecting the interests of the nation, when it comes to standing up for the rights and interests of Hungarians across borders, I and my group are always among the first. But to do that, on the grounds of national interests, to present such outrageous proposals to the Parliament, and to present the hypocrisy that we can see from you in this debate, is quite amazing. I think that the worst thing is, the worst thing for politicians is that someone is so hypocritical, and especially if they use the nation for such shameful, traitorous acts that we have seen very, very much of you in the past, and what you are about to do again. In about two weeks, they will vote in favour of a thousand billion-dollar project that is contrary to Hungarian national interests, and the fact that it is perfect for Chinese interests. You should account for your conscience when you talk about such matters. But in this debate we have heard from you about talent management and competitiveness, and we have heard the slogan that it is a change of grades in higher education. While we see what, Mr Secretary, what do we see, Congresswoman and Congressman? What we see is that the number of candidates for higher education is falling insanely. In one year, the number of students entering higher education decreased by 20 percent. Let us look at the Corvinus University, which we are talking about here, and what you have mentioned as an example: the number of students applying has decreased by 33 percent in one year. This is an outrage! Today, in Hungary, a university assistant who has a degree in science and has spent many, many years training himself, studying, earning less than a charger. Teachers flee from Hungarian higher education and the academic world, researchers flee because you do not appreciate them. They could have done that in ten years. I accept all the criticism you make of the Balliberal governments, but you are pursuing exactly the policy that your spiritual ancestors abandoned in 2010. I think it would be worthy of you to face your own mistakes and less stress that everything you are doing is national and you would try to be more political in the interests of the nation. Because indeed, if we are to secure the future of the nation, then we must pay attention to the 21st century. The challenges of the 20th century and the fact that, yes, what will be needed in the future are economic policies based on the educated head of man, qualified Hungarian people and skilled young people, which can be the way out of this critical period. This will be possible if you not only talk about and implement a change in higher education. By the way, the first and most important step in this would be to value academics and researchers working in higher education. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-20-242	Thank you very much. I made the mistake, because Dániel Z. Kárpát deviated from the point, but he had just finished it, and then Mr Sigismund Barna reacted, and now he continues. With all due respect, I ask Andrea Varga-Damm to try to get to the point, and I apologize if I thought wrong. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-20-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna be away from the subject for so long that you can't stop talking to me in time. Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond spoke about our fellow Member, Szabó Timea. Szabó Timea is my congressman. I didn't choose it, the people chose it, but he's my congressman, where I live, in that constituency. Whether Szabó Timea or anyone else disagrees with you or with anyone else, you may make a mistake in the work of your representatives, or you may think something other than the government, but that you will prevent my Member from speaking before the agenda, and I will ask for it. Speaker László Kövér has still had some authority for me, because he is a Speaker, and yet he is a colleague, and yet I do respect positions, but he was able to say that he could not maintain order, so my Member of Parliament couldn't say his speech, and I would ask for it in the long term and ask for it. I very much hope that this style will not continue in this House, and I hope that the President will be able to control his own. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-20-244	I will give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian for two minutes.
u2020-04-20-245	Mr President, Dear House, We were just talking about coalition partners. In fact, I would not be my fellow Member if I had coalition partners who allowed ten thousand evictions, allowed the castration of the private institution, and that practically tens of thousands of Hungarian people remained on the side of the road, and now they are planning to outsource government assets. So there are a number of processes here that I wouldn't identify with if I were you, besides, of course, doubting anyone's commitment. However, the questions I have raised are acute issues, whether it be settlement bonds, whether it be the unjustified pampering of multinationals. The problem is that the Hungarian Parliament held legitimate debates on these issues, even in my first term between 2010 and 14 when I got here, my fellow Member, there were professional debates here, where I actually filled out papers and tried to learn a lot. Now I feel as if I have respect for the exception, but I'm sitting among religious fanatics, so the discourse can last as long as we stay within the dialogue and discussion space they set us down. And when any critical comment, any other information gets in the debate, either they're trying to kill, discredit, make impossible, or they're telling me that this whole thing doesn't exist, and they're on the other side of the Stargate, and that where I am, it's not really real. So it's quite impossible to deal with any specific question, and to be honest, it hurts me terribly. So I'm asking you to change that. Government positions tell us what a person is really like when he has power in his hands, then he has to behave with insight, integrity, generosity. You guys haven't been able to do that at all lately. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-246	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else would like to take a 2-minute or 15-minute speech. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Orbán Balázs, who is preparing for the debate.
u2020-04-20-247	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am in a difficult situation because I felt that I would have been very involved in the former political hand-in-hands, but I would have felt that it would have been a release of emotions that would have allowed us to be here for a long time, which would have made sense if the debate had been constructive, but it would not have been constructive. [[18.30]] But, you know, the power, so now I've got the power to say that you can't answer me anymore. So I'm trying to control myself, so I'd only respond very briefly to the parts that have been said. First of all, we here on the government side are constantly saying what political analysts are confirming is that the parliamentary opposition is converging with one another and we perceive that there are ideological differences between the sides, but there is clearly a strong convergence. The assumption is that this will be embodied in a very spectacular convergence in 22th century. At the same time, it can be said, for example, that the LMP Members and ladies say that they believe in localism, not globalism, that they want more Europe. Here's an apology, now it's not a criticism, it's a statement that started from burning an EU flag, and then it came to a completely different approach. But there will come a time when you will have to decide whether to go up on this list or not to go up to the list, the common opposition list, and everything you say, every principle you throw at our heads, will find out in 22 that you meant it or didn't mean it. I very much hope that you will still stand up for the beautiful and vocal principles that you have represented, and those who decide on the composition of this list will appreciate this, and you will be placed in the appropriate place on the list. Let's hope so. I have strong limitations, strong to say. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Doubt!]] Yes, thank you very much, Congressman, I have my doubts. So I think it's gonna be an ugly end to this story and the big lecture, because that's classically the case, we don't see the splinter in other people's eyes, and we don't see the board in our own eyes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In the context of the education policy section and the functioning of the state: if there is already a lot of discussion on the opposition side, we should also consult and criticise the government in this sense on higher education, so that we move now towards mass education or non-mass education. 'Cause although Congressman Brenner is no longer in the room, they remember him, he specifically says, and that is undoubtedly so, that he is a university man, and then he said that a serious problem of Hungarian higher education was that he was moving towards mass education, which obviously means that there are too many people in the higher education system. While you stood up and said, as a criticism, that there are too few people in the higher education system. This is a legitimate policy issue as to which direction the structure of higher education should move. So the fact that the number of applications is increasing, the number of applications is decreasing... I am happy because the National University of Public Service belongs to me, there is the part that is responsible for civilian training, there is an increase in the number of applications. But in other places, which are also close to my heart, or because it's my alma mater, or because I've been involved in educational relations with them, there's been a decline in numbers. I'm obviously not happy about that. But overall, because the number of candidates for higher education is decreasing or increasing, it is not possible to draw a clear black and white conclusion. In addition, you clearly disagree on this issue, so first I would like to ask you to agree with each other. The other is the size of the state and the liberality of the government's education policy. However, it is somehow very wrong to hear that the government's education policy is liberal and is going towards outsourcing, or that higher education is being forced into some, I don't know, suspicious and strange legal or economic construction. 'Cause what we're talking about here is that in 2010, when we got here... I'm gonna look up my paperwork so I can tell you the exact numbers. These papers are written for me as background material, but my thoughts are my own in every case. So in 2010 left-wing governments had to spend 19 projects and more than 40 billion forints to replace a PPP scheme, because it was indeed a liberal education policy. It was about revoking public support from higher education institutions and, by the way, kicking universities out on the blood storm, on the market and letting business interests eat up higher education institutions which are otherwise forced to develop. So we slipped into several tens of billions of forints of basically flawed, fundamentally neoliberal-based PPP constructions. What did we do? We have triggered these schemes, stabilized the funding of universities, and we have taken a completely new approach both in terms of teaching wages and student scholarships and support, so today there are 17 different institutional or state scholarships, and otherwise only between 2016-18 the wages of teachers and researchers have increased by 27 percent, and the state grant for doctoral students has also increased significantly. Is that enough? It's not enough, but it's more than what happened. I will not agree that they are poor in addition to the fact that the institutions received the PPP scheme, since they were also in the status of civil servants at the time, so how they were affected by the economic downturn that was in 2008-2009. Obviously very, very significant. So, in fact, this is not a neoliberal proposal, but it is about the state creating a foundation structure for the public service and entrusting a foundation structure in which the business interest and the business aspect of per definition cannot appear, so only the case of talent and higher education as a criterion can appear by law in the context of the curatorium, and the purpose of this matter is... and we agree. One of the opposition representatives, I think, said Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, as a criticism of what will happen after 2022. This is precisely the point of the proposal in the case of Corvinus and Mathias Corvinus, that it does not matter whether the Government of Jobbán, the Government of Gyurcsány, the case of talent management and the case of Corvinus University as a top social science and economics education is something that does not belong to party politics and government policy. So that's what this is really about. But this proposal is not the Achilles' heel, it is the point, the point, that the unfortunate higher education institutions should not depend on the convenience of the current education policy government, the lobbying power of the current secretary of state. Mr Harvester, you remember when he was a government official, what kind of struggles must be fought. It is not a matter of precisely what kind of lobbying power the late representative of the harvest has within the government. It serves this purpose, it's a specific asset acquired by the Orbán government. Congressman, once again, reality can be embellished, it is in fact that it was still state property in 2002, it was not owned by state property in 2010, it was owned by a foreign multinational enemy buyer, and that it was also possible to prevent circumvention into the property of another foreign enemy buyer, if you believe that this is political achievement, we will not agree, and we will then bring back this state property. I may be young, but you can't lead me on. So that's why I read enough, and it's true that if you look at the history books, then the outrageous wealth policy that you conducted between 2002 and 2010 can't even be laundered for ten years. I'm sorry, I'm trying to make this quick. And, by the way, you asked me, Congressman, just to answer your professional question about the first experience of the operation of Corvinus University. I report that the first experience with the operation of Corvinus University is positive, because if someone goes into this story thinking that the dividends of an energy company and a pharmaceutical company will be the same every year, the whole thing is simply not in possession of elementary stock exchange and economic information. [[18.40]] That's the nature of the thing, the dividend payment, the dividend assets are fluctuating. There are times when it's sunny, and then there's a serious dividend payment, there's times when it's dark on the economy, and then there's no dividend payment. In addition, the energy portfolio and the pharmaceutical industry could be on a completely different development path. So it may be that in one case one performs well, in the other case the other performs well. The measure of the whole thing and its accountability also stand here or fail that the curatorium is able to carry on a farming activity in which the accumulation at the right time also helps to unravel at the wrong time. So this is the case of the cricket and the ant. So if everyone, when it's summer, crickets and violins, when it's winter and it's bad weather, then everyone's looking for the ant's favor, that's the whole point. And that is why the response to the criticism raised by the good-looking Members' ladies and gentlemen is that it is not only a question of education policy to run such a trust fund. Of course, it is also important, and this cannot work without professionals and expertise in the board of trustees about how to raise talented children, how to give them extra opportunities, how to get a higher education institution into the top 100 international higher education institutions, but if only such people sit in the board, then they are doomed to die. There is also a need for knowledge of farming and wealth policy. Therefore, in the same way as in the case of Corvinus, in the case of all other university, higher education institutions and in the case of Mathias Corvinus, the composition of the board took place in such a way that this complex multidisciplinary approach appeared. And I know that this is not the subject of the current bill, but nevertheless, the other changes in the model of maintenance, which the House is also discussing at the moment, and the introduction of the foundation model, are also intended to ensure that higher education institutions that are constantly supported by the government should think of MOME, just think of the National University of Public Service, think about the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, and think about the institutions that are now undergoing a change of model, there will be an agreement between the state and the institution, the essence of which depends on the lobbying of the successors of Mr Arató, whether the institution is currently lying or not in the current government or not. [[Gergely Arató: This is the typical neoliberal text!]] This is based on a long-term agreement. Mr Arató, before you misunderstand, I am not talking about Corvinus and the MCC, where there is also an asset transfer to the maintenance model change, but this applies to the other state, otherwise higher education institutions, where the change of maintenance model is born, because it is important that local actors are involved, for example, but the umbilical cord between the state and the higher education institution is not cut off at all, because funding is provided under these long-term contracts. So I think that whoever cares about talent management and who is important to have a national institution that is on the one hand conducting top 100 courses in social sciences and economics in Hungary, or that, regardless of which higher education or secondary education institution the children attend, they will receive the additional special support and assistance for further education abroad, for language learning or for the development of special skills, if there is someone and there are people in this House who care about this goal, they cannot do otherwise than support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-20-248	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Good evening, everyone. We will continue our work by informing you that it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. Please leave the room in accordance with the information provided by the Director General, so as to ensure the protection of everyone's health. We now have post-scheduled speeches. The first among these will be the leader of the LMP group, Mr Lóránt Keresztes: what challenges are the small settlements facing during the epidemic? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am not even taking this opportunity to respond to the Secretary of State as the first speaker after the agenda because he left the Chamber relatively quickly. At the same time, I would like to say that you have rightly stated that there are serious ideological differences between opposition parties, and you have also quite rightly observed that LMP is a strong supporter of localism and a supporter of the local government. I have to say that Fidesz and the pro-government factions, on the other hand, regard local governments as hostile. But we can see it, and we need to talk about it in the Parliament, if not at any other time, after the agenda, that the government has launched a completely outrageous series of attacks on the municipalities in a serious epidemiological situation, when there is a very serious but very, very deep economic crisis unfolding. We know precisely that the municipalities in this epidemiological situation are the number one bastions of protection, and we have also seen that we have seen many good examples from the municipalities, that they have taken action in many places first in relation to the control of the epidemic, and we have seen many good effective measures, even though many cities, many municipalities have been in a difficult situation before the epidemiological situation, even before the crisis, and have faced a lot of economic problems. Instead of thanking the government for this work and paying attention to the way in which municipalities should be provided with appropriate tools and resources to ensure the effectiveness of this work, the government will punish and the pro-government majority punished the municipalities by taking very, very serious and damaging austerity measures. Local government funds have been tapped, in particular, in opposition-led cities. The withdrawal of the stationary part of the vehicle tax was a major blow to the municipalities. Here are some examples: In Szeged it meant HUF 500 million and HUF 480 million in Pécs. But we can say that in the case of small settlements, and we can say that for two thirds to three quarters of the settlements, there is no other substantial source for the municipalities than the car tax. So this was an extremely serious and damaging step in a very difficult epidemiological period. But we can also see from the examples of recent days that this is only part of a series of attacks, and we can expect that the government will continue to rob the municipalities during the epidemiological situation and during the crisis. They continue to withdraw funds, take assets, and we can see that even in carrying out important tasks, the government is not a partner of municipalities, such as the purchase of basic protective equipment. In recent days, we have seen that in the case of the city of Göd, the government has, in a rather cynical way, taken away a significant part of the city's revenue resources by a decision of its own authority. They showed that they are able to do anything about a city with opposition leadership, they are able to make a decision at any time to divert funds, and they do so in a very cynical way, as we can see that there are lots in the budget, lots that amount to hundreds of billions of forints or even thousands of billions of forints, and that these could be redistributed at any time in order to protect them. Therefore, there is no need for the government to steal the property of the municipalities in this situation. Another example can be found in the case of Pécs, my home. Cultural institutions are in a very difficult situation here. We know that years ago the government made a long-term commitment and concluded an agreement with the Municipality of Pécs on its contribution to the maintenance of the cultural institutions in Pécs. This year, the opposition-led Pécs experienced that, despite its own commitment, the government refused to conclude these contracts, did not transfer these funds to the city, and would not even be willing to answer the questions of the municipality and the Mayor of Pécs. It is an obvious goal, and this was confirmed by a Fidesz representative of Pécs, that it is indeed the government's aim to put these institutions in a difficult position in this way, and the government can nationalise them and take them away from the municipality, which is a very shameful step. But no one should have any illusions, at any time the government can do this to any opposition-led city. Another extremely warning, very, very bad and dangerous example needs to be pointed out. I have talked about the difficult situation of the water utility sector in Parliament many times. There is no need to discuss in particular the difficulties faced by the sector which is already on the brink of collapse in this situation. We know that a significant proportion of the revenues of water utility companies have been lost because of the economic crisis that is unfolding, and we know that maintaining basic functioning has already been a major challenge. [[18.50]] A few days ago, the Hungarian Vízközmű Szövetség turned to the government with a request to grant an extension of payment of the public utility tax to local government-owned companies; the government also refused to do so. So we can't have any illusions about this, the goal is to make these companies impossible, and in this way, the government can nationalise them as well. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and take it away from the municipal reserve. We consider this to be an extremely damaging process, and we call on the government not to attack the municipalities, but to give them the necessary resources to carry out the defence work. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-250	Congressman Brenner Koloman, the representative of Jobbik, is following:.. Why is the rule of law and law important? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-251	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Fidesz, Three weeks ago, you gave the Fidesz government unlimited power for an unlimited period of time. Last week, the European Parliament met, and MEPs supported the idea of giving greater support to those states who respect the rule of law and the rule of law from common European sources. Fidesz's last allies in Europe have failed, as the German People's Party has also supported this proposal. I wish you had been right about those Fidesz MEPs who said that after the approval of the delegation law, you wouldn't expand beyond your rights. Let's see what's happened in the last few days. The first issue I would like to draw to the attention of this House is the placing of the Kartonpack Boxing Company in Debrecen under state leadership, the financial bleeding of local governments, the trafficking of relatives with protective equipment, the encryption of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which, in addition to your claim to be in favour of suppressing globalism, clearly meets only the needs of China, or perhaps Lőrinc Mészáros. In addition, let us face it that the taking of support from opposition parties is also small in terms of budgetary resources, but you are obviously afraid that in 2022 your government will go where it belongs, to the trash heap of history, my fellow Members. The Jobbik National People's Party is committed to European cooperation, but the current crisis shows what fundamental reforms the European Union needs, as our country is not only a market for Western European Member States, in our opinion, not only tossing the minds of the founding fathers of the European Union, but also to say that we believe in the idea of a Christian Europe based on values, but also a social Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, Every Hungarian citizen's life is seriously influenced by the fact that European and conservative values such as the rule of law and law are being violated. Many of us remember what it was like to live in the vulnerability of the past communist regime. I would like to say that many of my fellow Members have also been involved in the administration of it, and, unfortunately, in the year 2020 of the Lord, Fidesz currently has similar opportunities in Hungary as in the one-party socialist system at the time. The citizens' wealth is not safe either, because you are blackmailing non-cooperative economic operators at any time. If anyone has a land in a place where an investment is planned, it is possible in Hungary today that it will be lost if the state sees, for example, that it serves as a defense against the Crown Virus, and there is no need to justify it. Then, in Hungary today, it is possible to limit people's fundamental rights practically without any world vision. In our view, as a national people's party, this can only be limited to a temporary period and a fixed period of time. Every decent Hungarian citizen in Jobbik Hungary will have the opportunity to cope in equal conditions, whether the Fidesz or even today's opposition can say otherwise by a truly Christian Democrat and civil politician. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-252	Thank you very much. Z. Mr. Dániel Kárpát, representative of Jobbik: You can address your statement after the agenda. Here.
u2020-04-20-253	Mr President, Dear House, Why is the Fidesz neoliberal? We could ask the question. Over the last ten years, we have had a number of professional debates, which seem a little boring from this historical perspective, where both the system of family tax incentives, the CSOK and the home creation program, we have said that Fidesz is pursuing a chemically pure neoliberal economic policy: it selects certain lucky social groups, typically up from the upper middle class, favours them, favours the weaker performers, already leaves the weaker and poorer out of this discount mass, and expects those benefits to grow after a while. This model has failed all over the world, and unfortunately it has failed in Hungary as well. This is what happened to the system of family tax incentives, where the bulk of the benefits can be exploited by a relatively narrow, lucky, upper middle class group or richer group. The same thing happened in the case of CSOK, where wealthy citizens' real estate investors benefited very much, and the young Hungarian founders in typical living situations could not take advantage of the opportunity; what was invented for them as state support for housing savings, was eliminated, bulldozed, plowed, and their place was also removed. In me, the last hopes of the world vision of Fidesz turned, and I saw the real face when I attended some 45 evictions with my small team. That inhumanity, the management of the masses left at the edge of the ditch, can't be ignored, can't be treated without emotion, and I don't want to do that. And I see the same thing coming to face with the so-called crisis management package: although we are hearing amazing production reports and production meetings here, as if we were 30-40-50 years earlier in the Hungarian Parliament, but there is not a single stinking word from the current government to those who are in the greatest trouble, they have no message for those who have already lost their jobs. There is a number war here today, between about 100 and 300,000 people who have already lost their jobs because of the crisis of the coronal virus situation, and we can be sure, unfortunately, that this number will turn out to be amazing, because the crowds of small businesses have paid the last wage somehow, but they are not sure that they can do this in two weeks or two months' time without income. This government sends no message to elderly people who are in need of care, but are now being sent home from the hospital because of amazing system failures, actually carried out along the lawnmower principle and without any substantive investigation. Fidesz-KDNP also sends no message to family members who now have to take care of their own relatives, but should go to work, the child should be helped to learn distance learning, and there are many other tasks now typically faced by Hungarian ladies, but surely also on the shoulders of men who have been inexperienced in previous years and may now create an uncontrollable situation. Our fellow citizens living with chronic illness, such as diabetics, who now have access to everyday tools to maintain a normal quality of life, the purchase of various health supplements and drugs, because of the lack of supplies and difficulties, can cause quite simply unsolvable tasks. And we also see that the removal of the status of the people working in the public sector, of the people working in the public sector, and the tampering in it, in the middle of such a crisis, is simply inhumane. What we see is that a real national emotional government could not be able to leave so many social groups alone, because it is quite simply a nation-destroying, nation-destroying, and now you can see it crystal clear, although I have glasses, but I also clearly see at which points this vortex will destroy. And instead of mitigating the effects of this government, it further excites these vortexes by, for example, the fact that, in the case of four fifths of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the owners of micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises have no message, not even a cheap tax or contribution reduction. There are certain selected industries, where yes, we value at least the contribution allowance here, although this does not mean that there will be any revenue, but we see that at systemic level hundreds of thousands, millions of people are left out of any kind of protection mechanism in the social network, and this remains unacceptable to a patriot who thinks in a fair nation forever. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[19.00]]
u2020-04-20-254	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, where did Dr. Ildikó Horváth go? He asked his post-meeting address with a title. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Professor Ildikó Horváth is State Secretary for Health at the Ministry of Human Resources. It seems that the reason why I have to present him again to the public of Parliament is because he has practically disappeared from public opinion since 17 March 2020. In fact, Dr. Ildikó Horváth is the Minister of Health in the abnormal governance structure of the Orbán system. There has been an emergency in Hungary since 11 March 2020 due to the coronal virus epidemic. So everyone would think that although it is a fact that the legislation gives the chief of staff a great deal of work to do in the middle of an epidemic, how to combat this epidemic, but whether you like it or not, the government member in charge of healthcare must stand next to this officer in charge of the CDC. On 11 March 2020, Professor Ildikó Horváth came to the Defence and Police Committee to inform the members of the Committee about the initial situation of the coronal virus epidemic and the necessary measures, but since then, outside of a press conference that was held on 17 March, he disappeared from public opinion. Then, of course, a few days ago, a lot of people missed where he went when he heard about himself two days ago, with a rather shameful way, and this was to write a letter to the Hospital Association about the basis on which they dared to stand up for Péter Cserháti, whom Miklós Kásler had dismissed from the board of directors of the Rehabilitation Institute. Well, in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, the only statement of the government member in charge of health is that he is outraged by standing up for an excellent professional, and he even writes this in a letter... But I could ask if the chief of staff in the middle of the epidemic had a lot to do with the legislation, perhaps in this situation the member of the government responsible for health might be a second-rate person. No, please, because I'm going to tell you what Ildikó Horváth had to do, even if his supervisor, Minister Miklós Kásler, is the head of the Ministry, but as we know, this ministry is a conglomerate, one of the fields of health. For example, Dr. Ildikó Horváth should have refused to evacuate 60 percent of the bed. This may have been the case for the chief of staff, who would be able to combat the epidemic in this way and to cure the people who have been sick by the plague, but the decision in the health care system is who can decide the release of the beds, no, it is Dr. Ildikó Horváth. And not only do we not hear his voice, not only is he gone, but he, who is the Hungarian academic doctor of pulmonary medicine, is the MTA doctor of pulmonary medicine, the main knowledge of the disease that the coronal virus epidemic has brought to patients, because people who get sick because of the complications of the coronal virus epidemic die of pneumonia, what do we see in his case? The doctor of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the lung doctor, the person responsible for health care, disappears from the public, is silent, and, with his silence, contributes to the loss of many tens of thousands of people, since the evacuation of beds has deprived many sick, disabled and needy people of their right to health care. And then we didn't talk about why he should come out. For example, because the government keeps saying that it is 18/1998. Ministerial Decree No. 44 does not apply to the present epidemic, but it is a new 44. In the event of an emergency, what was it about? In the event of an emergency, public health screening programmes will be terminated by the government. But please, in colon cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer and cervical cancer, tens of thousands of people die a year. Let's hope the coronal virus epidemic doesn't cause so many casualties. It suspends the public health screening programme that could make sure that tens of thousands of people in Hungary do not die of cancer each year. And we didn't talk about it then, many people probably don't know that all health workers should be screened until June 30, 2020 and filtered for hepatitis C. We don't hear anything about these programs from Dr. Ildikó Horváth. Come on out! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-256	Thank you very much. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, gives his speech after the agenda with a title "It was enough." Here you go.
u2020-04-20-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The heartbeat of Hungary today is these two words: enough. It was enough to send sick people, seriously injured people, away and around the country instead of taking care of them. Enough poverty, millions of people can't pay their bills at the end of the month. Enough of the government not taking the elderly, the sick, the students, the needy. Enough with the harshness, the insensitiveness. Enough of the fact that it's getting harder and harder to make a living while people are working more and more. It was enough to reduce the number of people working, raising children, caring for each other, trying to survive with honor, while increasing the number of slackers, lying billionaire crooks, and scheming for the protection of the state. Enough of them taking everything that people have worked for and selling everything that people have in common. It was enough for a privileged group to see people as morons and say to their faces, "You have nothing to do with it, take care of yourselves, and pay more and more and more. " It was enough that people always get worse, while those in power can gain more luxury, more wealth and more privileges for themselves. I fully agree with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, because these are his words from 2007. You know, from the time we believed that Fidesz would bring us civil Hungary. And what, ten years of government wasn't enough to make a difference? Aren't they sending patients around the country instead of taking care of them? For example, from the hospital in Marcali, are chronic patients home, whose care is not provided at home? Today there are no millions of people in Hungary who cannot pay their bills at the end of the month? The ones who are losing their jobs in a crowd? Or are those pensioners who live for 70,000 forints after a life of honor? Does the Government of Hungary today account for these elderly people? These patients? These needy people? Aren't they selling everything that people have in common today, like state land? Doesn't a privileged group today think people are stupid? When many lose their jobs, their company, during the crisis, does Lőrinc Mészáros earn a profit of HUF 17,000 million with a single sales contract? On top of that, public money, our money. But where is the limit of insolence? Don't those in power today gain more luxury, more wealth, and more privileges? Aren't there more and more liars, billionaires, swindlers who are protected by the state? Dear fellow citizens, What changed then? The flag. The color of the flag has changed. And it's sad that it turned out this way. I had every authority to make a difference. But it's a matter of time before the Hungarian people realize that they've been deceived. Not a little, a lot. And then Hungary's heart will beat again. And the Hungarian people will stand up for themselves, and they will finally say: that is enough! Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-20-258	Thank you very much. Mr Erik Fülöp, an independent Member:. Object the Government's statement on the agenda in order to ban Asian wet markets. Here you go.
u2020-04-20-259	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In 2009, the UN declared 22 April to be Earth Day. Over the past eleven years, many political parties, many civil society organisations and thousands of environmental activists have tried to draw attention to our environment, to the preservation of our nature, and to the importance of sustainable development, here in Hungary as well. [[19.10]] Our Homeland Movement claims to be a national radical green couple that patriotism and the protection of our nature and environment are inseparable from each other. And I, as the Animal Protection and Environmental Policy of the Hungarian Movement, believe that, in this very serious situation, on the occasion of Earth's Day, unfortunately, there must be a terrible epidemic that is currently paralyzing the whole world. There are many different theories in social media today, or even in world press, many believe that there were certain background powers that spread this terrible virus. There are also people trying to turn the corona virus into a virus that escaped from a secret laboratory. However, I can mostly accept and embrace the opinions of biologists, health researchers and professionals who claim that China, the Hupei province, the Wuhan center, and the Wuhan settlement, has released the coronal virus epidemic. As these experts say, bats spread, bats find this virus as a primary carrier, and it spread to the human body by consuming various dangerous wild animals, especially the tobzoska. I think that, in recent times, shocking videos and shocking images have been used in the world press, which has enabled everyone to know that they are primarily consumed in China and unfortunately in a large number of Asian countries, referring to various gastronomic traditions, referring to the various organs and meat of wild animals. Unfortunately, it has to be noted here that in some Chinese provinces and Asian countries, eating dogs and cats as pets at our house is completely accepted. In these so-called wet markets, dogs, cats, raw meat, processed meat of various wild animals are still being killed and offered for sale. Here from the tobzoska to the bats, through the rats, I think all kinds of animals turn around. Of course, I think that not only as a European person, not only as an animal defender, but as a citizen of the developed world, everyone must protest and condemn such activities. All the more so, since we know that the current coronal virus epidemic is not the first epidemic to threaten mankind. I would like to remind everyone here that between 2002 and 2004 there was a SARS virus epidemic that was localised in China and Asian countries, but this also caused more than ten thousand diseases and resulted in nearly a thousand deaths. However, the current coronal virus epidemic has already resulted in more than two and a half million registered diseases, and unfortunately we can also say that the number of deaths today has exceeded 170,000 people, as I understand it. The various biologists, the macrobiologists, indicate that if we fail to stop the consumption of shocking wild food, dog meat, cat meat eating in Asian countries, a third epidemic of this kind could start at any time. For this reason, the Hungarian Government is reverently asked by the Hungarian Government to demand the immediate ban on dog meat and cat meat in all international fora, whether in the European Union or in various UN organisations where we can reach international publicity, to protest China and Asian countries, to demand that the markets selling wild animals, known as the various wildlife markets, be immediately banned, demand a review of wet markets and allow international research groups to enter Wuhan. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi applauds.]]
u2020-04-20-260	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, will follow. The title of his post-meeting speech:, The price of idleness will be paid by you! Here you go.
u2020-04-20-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the announcement of the emergency, this is the 40th day, the fourth week of curfew. Everyone's impatient, everyone's looking forward to the miracle of finally ending the crown virus and getting back to normal. In recent times, the government has taken a lot of measures, and today, in my speech, I would like to talk about the downsides of these, which I personally experienced in my voluntary activities, and a lot of people have come to me saying that, indeed, not everything is as the government stresses and says in the government propaganda. First of all, it has been said today from the mouth of Minister Szijjártó that more than 70 million masks and protective equipment have arrived in our country. It is a matter of fact, yes, we believe, my fellow Members have looked at it, indeed the masks have arrived. But where are they, why don't they get to the Hungarian population? In drugstores and drugstores, they have access to these necessary means to protect themselves from this epidemic. Tens of thousands of volunteers sew masks while over 70 million have arrived in our country. Thanks to the volunteers. The next issue is the closure of schools, the diversion of the education system. Because it's been almost a month now if we take the spring break out of it, that students have moved from classroom education to digital education. Yes, but you have forgotten to provide resources to those living in extreme poverty and segregation, students who would have the only chance to catch up. What happened? Digital education has been ordered, but there is no evidence of the tools, and volunteers and local governments are trying to help, since, let's face it, they do not have the means to access the Internet, and let's not talk about the fact that some people do not even have the power to access this way of the education system at all. So there is also a huge shortage of assets. In parentheses, we also note the situation at graduation. We see that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also announced that they are awaiting the peak of the epidemic on 3 May, and that the graduation exams will begin on 4 May. This puts not only students, teachers, and relatives in great danger. You know that. Today, Minister of State Rétvári did not answer the question of my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs, when he said that this was a huge mistake on your part. You know that. In this, a solution must be found to reduce emergency and infection. I trust you will see that, and you will postpone your graduation. Thanks to the parents, thanks to the students and thanks to the teachers. In addition, a huge economic protection action plan has been announced beyond any economic rescue package in the last hundred years. This is so very good that they're already working on a revision. You see, what you've done and written on a piece of paper that's been put together in one of these offices, it doesn't seem to hold up right here, in life, and it's putting very, very, very big problems ahead. This has already been the case with 60,000 people losing their jobs in a month, and every day, week after week, more and more people are losing their jobs. If they don't have jobs, they don't have income. What's the consequence? Starvation. Believe me, people are starving in Hungary today, in 2020. The fact that you deny that there is extreme poverty... do not deny, leave, step out of your comfort zone, or the Carmelite monastery, and go to the segregations, the periphery, and see the conditions under which people live! People are starving, there's no hope. What can you do, poor thing? He goes to the council to knock on the door: Mr. Mayor, you've been elected, help! What are you doing? They're taking money from the municipalities. This is the world we live in. If they do not do something, if they do not provide substantial assistance at least through the municipalities, who will then return it to those in need in the social network, then hunger will not last for a day or two and for a month or two, but for a very, very long time. Please don't be idle, we need help in our country. Thank you very much, Mr President, and for your patience.
u2020-04-20-262	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
