u2020-06-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. The 34th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2021 will follow. The bill is T/10710. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/10710/1. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Mr. Messenger!
u2020-06-11-1	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the 13-hour timeframe available today is as follows: 268 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 122 minutes for the KDNP Group, 90 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 84 minutes for the MSZP Group, 66 minutes for the DK Group, 57 minutes for the LMP Group, 54 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 39 minutes for the independent Members. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to another day.
u2020-06-11-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The opening speech, the speech by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Board of Budgets, and the speeches by the keynote speaker and their representatives took place yesterday at the beginning of the general debate. The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, has applied for a statement. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-06-11-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow us to talk about the economic, public finances and financing processes of the last ten years during the parliamentary negotiations on the budget for next year, pointing out how the government has developed and maintained disciplined management and the dynamic growth path of the Hungarian economy, the situation in which we can conclude that the economic challenges caused by the coronal virus epidemic are facing a more robust and crisis-resistant Hungary in all respects, and that by 2021 we can put together a budget that effectively serves the protection of the Hungarian economy, businesses, jobs and not least the Hungarian families. Dear Parliament, We can remember the fragile state of the Hungarian economy of the financial crisis in 2008. At the time, the country was characterised by one of the worst labour market indicators in the European Union, growth performance was increasingly lagging behind our regional competitors, budget deficits were high, public debt was on a growing path, and, last but not least, foreign exchange loans exacerbated the decline with a sharp repayment. All of this has contributed to Hungary's deep recession, from which the recovery took years due to the burden of previous debts. However, before the outbreak of the current pandemic, the fundamentals of the domestic economy are significantly more favourable than before the 2008 financial crisis. The Hungarian economy has been on a growth path since 2013, which has led to a dynamic expansion that has made Hungary one of the fastest growing countries in the EU. This is confirmed by the fact that while the average EU growth in 2019 was only 1.5 percent, the Hungarian economy was able to expand by 4.9 percent. The rapid development has been achieved in a healthy and balanced structure, as well as indebtedness-free. The expansion was on several legs. On the production side, it was supported by industry, services and construction, as well as from the use side, it was supported by a competitive business and tax environment, as well as by strong incentives from the government, which ensured the sustainability of growth. The volume of domestic developments is indicated by the fact that one of the highest investment rates in Hungary was among the EU Member States. This represented 28.6 percent in 2019. As a result of the government's measures to stimulate labour market activity, the Hungarian labour market indicators have jumped to the forefront of the European Union. We can remember that in 2008 the employment rate in Hungary was 56.4 percent, which was the lowest at the time. In the last year, however, this figure was 71.1 percent, which exceeded the European Union average. Or the unemployment rate, which in 2008 was well above the European Union average, was above 10%, while in 2019 it was 3.4 percent, which is half of the European Union's. The creation of a work-based economy, coupled with a dynamic rise in wages, has also greatly increased the incomes of families, resulting in a significantly more stable household financial situation, which has contributed to the roll-out of foreign exchange loans which are a significant burden for the sector. While households were able to increase their consumption due to their improved income situation, it was not accompanied by excessive debt, which is well demonstrated by the 12-percent saving rate, which is also outstanding in the EU comparison. Thanks to a favourable business environment and a competitive domestic workforce, one of the major drivers of growth was the expansion of industry and services producing a significant part of exports. As a result, after the start of growth, the surplus of foreign trade rose to record heights, resulting in a favourable external balance and effective use of EU transfers, the country's net financing capacity compared to the negative pre-crisis value in the region has also become particularly positive over the last ten years, resulting in net external debt-to-GDP ratio falling from more than 50 per cent in 2008 to less than 8 per cent in 2008. In particular, it is beneficial that, in parallel with the increase in employees' incomes, the profits of businesses have also increased, so the wage catch-up that has started as a result of record employment has not affected the competitiveness of domestic companies. [[8.10]] This trend is partly explained by the increase in the efficiency of companies, which is supported, inter alia, by increasing automation. Dynamic growth has also been coupled with a disciplined fiscal policy on the public finances side, which is well characterised by a persistent decline in deficits. The stable state of the budget has also been supported by the restructuring of the tax system, a series of measures leading to the efficiency of taxation and the whiteening of the economy, such as making the use of online cash registers mandatory, the introduction of the EKAER system or the creation of an online account data service. Meanwhile, Hungary's external vulnerability has decreased substantially over the last decade. This has two main pillars. As an important measure, the main risk to Hungarian families, the exchange rate risk, was eliminated by the government by the release of foreign exchange loans. As a result of the forinting, in 2015 retail foreign exchange loans disappeared almost entirely from Hungary. While in 2009 the proportion was above 70 per cent, it has now fallen to less than 1 per cent in the total retail loan portfolio. The second pillar: the level and structure of public debt each year has made the government much more stable thanks to this responsible fiscal policy and a transparent debt management strategy. Government debt-to-GDP ratio has been declining steadily since 2011, with a debt ratio of 66.3 per cent at the end of 2019. The 15 percentage points debt reduction over the last eight years is one of the most significant achievements of EU countries. In addition to reducing the debt ratio, the main strategic objective of the Hungarian government debt management is to reduce the foreign exposure of the sovereign debt and the foreign exchange debt ratio. In line with this, the foreign exchange ratio decreased from 53 per cent at the end of 2011 to 21 per cent in 2019, while the foreigner ratio decreased from 65 per cent in the same period to 34 per cent. Both retail and debt processes have led to a serious reduction in the country's foreign exchange exposure and external vulnerability. In parallel with the decline in foreign participation, the debt manager increasingly relied on the public to finance public debt. The public's share of debt financing has increased substantially over the last eight years: it has increased from 5 percent to 26 percent, after their sovereign debt stock has more than tenfold and has now increased to over HUF 8200 billion. The growing involvement of the population has made debt financing more stable, as the population is a reliable investor, typically less likely to suddenly get rid of its sovereign debt, such as foreign investors in the event of a market risk. On the other hand, it is also important that the interest paid increases the income of the Hungarian population and strengthens the domestic economy and consumption. In view of this and the reduction of external vulnerability, the government aimed at increasing the sovereign debt of the population to HUF 11 000 billion by the end of 2023. The objective is supported by the reform of the retail sovereign debt market. One of the most important elements of this is the purchase of Hungarian State Paper Plus, which has proved to be a very popular product among the population, since June 2019. Without abandoning the strategy based on the domestic population, in April 2020, in order to eliminate the risks posed by the coronal virus epidemic, eurobonds were issued with a total maturity of 6 and 12 years, with a total value of HUF 2 billion, in view of the security of funding. Then, on 2 June 2020, Hungary's first international green bond was issued, which was an outstanding success and multiple over-booking zone. The amount of EUR 1.5 billion from a 15-year bond paying 1,75 per cent interest is used to finance certain green expenditures in the central budget. From all of this, Hungary is easily able to find a secure source of funding in the international market, and therefore, during the current crisis, it did not need to borrow from international agencies, unlike what happened in 2008, when the country was able to avoid the state failure only with a loan of several thousand billion forints from the IMF. This loan was then repaid by the government in 2013, well before the deadline, and unlike many other countries, in the midst of the current crisis, it was not forced to turn again to international organisations for help, thanks to the successful economic policy of recent years, which has reduced foreign vulnerability. The success of economic policy, which reduces external exposure, has been recognised by the market for years with a significantly reduced country risk premium and favourable rates of return, while credit rating agencies and international organisations have consistently confirmed the decline in external vulnerability as a key positive factor. This created the basis for the fact that the Hungarian markets remained stable in the dangerous market situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic and that market financing could continue to take place smoothly and under favourable conditions. Dear Parliament, Overall, the Hungarian economy has strong fundamentals. This statement is also true for the financial balance of both the real economy and the individual sectors and the country as a whole. On the one hand, these favourable conditions allowed the government to introduce a uniquely large package of measures in the history of the country in order to prevent the economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic, and on the other hand, they provide the basis for the expectation that the Hungarian economy can recover rapidly and return to dynamic growth. Ladies and gentlemen, In the draft budget law of 2021 submitted to Parliament, which is a budget for economic protection, support for families and the possibility of economic development is a priority. The strengthening of these important pillars will help our country to grow again along a dynamic growth path following the temporary halt caused by the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches by the Members who have made themselves known in writing will follow. I would like to announce that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00. [[8.20]] First, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, representative of Fidesz, may speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, We've heard a lot about numbers, and we'll hear a lot more. However, for my part, I believe that simple people like me, in particular, understand that opportunities are increasing or opportunities are shrinking. That's the interesting thing about sectors. If the opportunity increases, then we can all hope that it will grow for all of us, if it decreases, endangers all of us. The numbers are impressive, and I have to say that the comparison will stand up to every test. It is clear that in the most basic sectors, such as health, education, economic strengthening, but let me add, even in the field of law enforcement, which is extremely important, numbers are increasing and increasing in terms of comparison. The situation, therefore, Honourable Parliament, is that we can say that, even under an increasingly critical circumstance, the government is able to submit to the House a budget that can give confidence to the people of the country without austerity, and yet under a sort of order and system. Dear House, However, some of the factors that need to be highlighted are needed. In order to reassure us that this budget, which I believe we can all support with a good heart, depends essentially on the possibility that there is a possibility, there is the possibility, the funds on which the budget is based. This is worth some consideration, but it is only worth considering the circumstances. When the whole world was hit by a certain coronal virus crisis, it was a surprise. It was particularly surprising how quickly this effect occurred in economic life, and these effects were extremely negative. I must say that I am convinced that what can be achieved in reading can be seen as a surprise not only to us ordinary people, but also to those who should not have been surprised. It should be considered an exception, and this is not boasting, it is a fact that Hungary and the V4 have performed well in this area. He has done well, and I think it is important to highlight this in a sense where this may not have been entirely expected: in the economic area. Our economy is heavily dependent, and this cannot be denied, from the European economy, including one or two large countries. In these countries, and this must also be clearly seen, stagnation has not just begun. There was no corona virus, there were already declining trends, and the Hungarian economy had to prepare for this and prepared for it. The fact is, therefore, that Hungary has done well in terms of preparedness, and I believe that it can do well in the following. However, it is important to note the following. The prolonged, possibly prolonged economic crisis can affect the countries of the European Union to an extent that will have an impact on Hungary. This must therefore also be prepared. It can also be seen clearly that the major draw states within the European Union have given very bad responses in the last few months to the emerging crisis related to the Crown Virus. Situations have emerged, and this must be pointed out, and this must be seen by our public opinion, which is almost self-destructive. When a country creates a situation where it creates such a desperate bad situation in its own industry, within its own industry, that it can, I have to say, actually be in a state of stagnation, then this is also important for Hungary. That is why I think it is extremely important to stress that Hungary has a solid, secure point, and this is a solid, secure point, however biased I will seem, that is Hungarian agriculture, the construction of agriculture. Over recent years and decades, this has shown a variety of disabilities and many outcomes. I have asked to speak here today because I would like to share some thoughts on the part of the thinned and now barely existing small farmer's world here in this House. The fact is, Mr House, that if we do not look for opportunities in our own strength and within our own capabilities and base, we can always expect great surprises there. We must first and foremost build on what is ours and which is exclusively ours. And that it is ours, primarily due to the policy that started ten years ago, which put it clearly and in front of everything else in this regard, I must say that it is flawless to keep in Hungarian hands the opportunities that lie in Hungarian agriculture. Another question is that we were able to take advantage of the opportunity. Not so far, but very modestly so far. I believe that we will need to bring together more significant forces here. I need to point out one more emergency separately. And this emergency, whether you like it or not, is coming from Brussels. The latest Green Programme presented by the European Commission, which, if implemented and implemented, is being carried out by a great deal of force, in which case Hungarian agriculture could be put at risk. They would create an impossible situation by reducing, rather than increasing what Europe and the world need most, safe food supply. They would create a situation where, by the way, the economies of the whole countries, which are heavily based on this sector, and their potential for life would not only be increased, but would be significantly reduced. Therefore, in the coming weeks, months, and with the support of all sides, I hope the Hungarian struggle should aim to ensure that this initiative of the Commission is not given the green light, because if it is given the green light, then there will be a whole new situation with regard to the Hungarian countryside. I was happy to read here, in this budget, which is currently under negotiation, that the Hungarian village programme will remain, but the program must be changed. There are very good parts of the program in the Hungarian village, but I have to say that there are a few missing. It is good to keep, raise and strengthen buildings, that is all right, that is also necessary, but it is necessary to create local work and jobs in the Hungarian countryside and in the Hungarian village. To this end, I have to say that once again we have to make changes in agriculture. At last, it must reach the knowledge that the survival of small and medium estates in the coming period is a matter of fate, but their survival is only possible if we can accept the possibility of social farming. It's a huge task. For decades we have heard nothing but the horrors of the kolkh. I've been through it, so I know what it was like, and I'm not saying at all that anyone would cry back, but this alliance isn't. And only the government will be able to stop this kind of thinking, because only he has that kind of communication. The government is able to create a situation where people are not afraid of it in the coming time, but understand that it is serving their future. I see this as a crucial issue, and I am convinced that it is included in this budget. When we say that the Hungarian village programme, when we say that it is a Hungarian rural development programme, must be included. Dear House, The fact that the government was able to fight the Crown Virus by putting man first in the battle for the Crown Virus, but at the same time he was able to create economic foundations for further protection. And here's one last thought I need to confirm. No one can imagine that it is possible to create a situation in the coming difficult, perhaps critical, period where the government can deliver if its assets are not in place. His assets must be given to the government, and now he must be generous. Personally, I have always been in favour of Parliament's control function, its strength, but in times of crisis, the speed and accuracy of decisions, the determination of those decisions, are a fundamental issue; we now see this very well, first and foremost, in the countries where they are lacking. [[8.30]] Within the European Union, of which I am firmly convinced that we are members, we must remain a member, we must work there to find the allies, we must find those who lead this right and right in the way, I must say this which is irreplaceable, irreplaceable cooperation that the European Union is able to ensure. We must take advantage of it, take advantage of it with allies, and find our own domestic resources. This budget is, I believe, courageous, determined and I consider this to be very important in this particular situation, but it is thoughtful, and I therefore wholeheartedly recommend its adoption. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the representative of Jobbik, Mr Zoltán Balczó. Here.
u2020-06-11-7	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, EU funds can play a key role in meeting next year's economic and social goals, if they are used properly and effectively; this is something to be improved. Let me begin with a general remark. The fact that we are adopting the budget at the spring session has been criticised by many. We know the government's position that it will provide security to economic operators if they anticipate the government's policy and budget for the following year. This would be true if it were not necessary to modify it on the move. This is particularly true in the current situation, we do not know how the Hungarian economy will perform, we only know the first quarter, and it is especially true in European Union relations, because there will be payments from the extended payments for the period 2014-2020, from the sources of the budget for 2021, and there is an extra rescue package of EUR 750 billion that we already know what the Commission's idea is, there will be a principle agreement on it at this June Council meeting, and in September, details would have been fully justified to negotiate and accept next year's budget in the autumn. About the first category, the previous period, which is the most reliable one, let me say this: we will obviously call off every single euro, as we hear, but there has been an example that the European Union will not accept the payment of a given project after verification, because it reveals a serious deficiency in public procurement. And the government says it's okay, another project took its place. That is true, but what has been challenged was a serious objection, and we Hungarian taxpayers will pay for it. There is still a huge debate on the 2021 budget, a lot of things we do not know, and at the same time the budget for the 21-27 cycle should be adopted. So we're working with totally uncertain data and factors. I too, which I know factually from EP reports, may not be true in two weeks; I will try to refer to them. Let's start with this EUR 750 billion extra rescue package. This is a lot of money, since the total seven-year budget is EUR 1100 billion, so it is understandable that the Member States, the active contributors, do not want to cover this from their own GDP, so the current plan is that the European Commission will issue a bond for this amount, which will start to be repaid from 2028. Here is a question about the national consultation. It is clear what it will be about to create this source: bond issue, repayment from 2028. The question to the Hungarian population is: Are you rejecting György Soros's eternal bond proposal? Yes or no? I assume if we ask for an opinion and ask a question, we are not sure what the answer is. In principle, if the Hungarian population were to say that yes, this eternal bond is a very stupid idea, then what does the government do? You're going to the Commission and you're going to tell me, please, to change it? Returning to the distribution of 750 billion: of which 250 billion would be distributed as loans, so the Member States would pay back on the basis of what they received, and 500 billion would be non-refundable aid in this. They were generally distributed on a need-to-know basis from the cohesion funds, so Hungary benefited from this correctly and vigorously. The logic of the current distribution is not about the seven-year budget, but I am talking about this extra rescue package because it is based on how many regions have suffered the epidemic economically, and on this, yes, the aid of the southern states will be strong in this: Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece and Cyprus. The Prime Minister called this system absurd and perverted, on the basis of which the EU would in future distribute this money to help rich countries and the poorer Member States would finance it. This doesn't match the reality. Hungary will have to pay €7.5 billion with a 1% deposit rate, compared with €8.1 billion in non-refundable grants. The salon isn't significant, but it's positive. The question here is that we consider it fair to distribute in this situation according to the way an economy has suffered from the virus epidemic. This is what the government states in the Convergence Programme: thanks to a consistent economic policy over recent years, the epidemic was a resilient, balanced economy in March 2020. If that is the case, then solidarity means that, in this situation, we acknowledge that other countries have had a different understanding and more suffering. I would add that we would very much like the government to be able to make more money out of this source, but I do not necessarily feel that this procedure is unfair. On the other hand, maintaining our position in the fund's seven-year budget is a perfectly legitimate claim, since the preamble to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union sets out as a fundamental objective the guarantee of the harmonious development of the Community, the reduction of disparities between different regions, and the reduction of the backwardness of disadvantaged regions. In this seven-year budget framework, therefore, Hungary rightly expects additional support. Unfortunately, the three cohesion funds are falling, including the cohesion fund itself in the strongest sense. Let me add that here the European Parliament has been a positive direction for us, and in one of its reports it stated that for the period 21-27, the level of funding needed for key EU policies should be ensured in order to fulfil their mission. So this says that the financing of the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy must be kept in real terms. I would certainly like to support this. At the same time, this report would reduce the sovereignty of the Member States because it was proposed that the Union achieve its own resources with its own central tax and that tax policy is a national competence. One further question was that the mechanism for adopting the budget might be changed, and the qualified majority in the Council rather than the unanimous decision is enough. Jobbik is of the opinion that on such a serious, important issue, if we have always managed to find consensus in some way, this is the case now. The European Commission envisages less agricultural aid for Hungary than before and takes the following measures. One is direct aid, i.e. the entry of area payments. This is about the fact that, on the basis of an area or amount, the maximum amount of EUR 100 thousand and the degressive rate of EUR 60 to 100 thousand, in any case, this has been decided by Member States, but this will now be mandatory. The draft also provides for the amount to be released as a result of the two instruments. [[8.40]] It says that these could be distributed among small and medium-sized farms and transferred to the second pillar for rural development purposes. Small and medium-sized farms would receive larger per hectare aid and Member States would have to help young farmers start up by at least 2 percent of their direct payments. It will also be possible to transfer 15 percent of the CAP, the common agricultural policy resources, to rural development instead of direct payments. Ladies and gentlemen, This is what is said here, and what we know is the agricultural policy that you adopted as a rural strategy in 2012 was presented by József Ángyán and his colleagues. This is consistent with the agricultural policy that the European Union considers important. And in the meantime, your government is entering into a strategic agreement with capitalized agricultural large farms that are engaged in monoculture, a single-plane version of crop production, with a strong use of chemicals and wage labor. So there is also a contrast between what Béla Turi-Kovács, who I respect very much, said about his direction and said elements of the rural strategy that you have thrown away and want to cooperate in a different direction. Some of the Council's recommendations for the Hungarian convergence programme are interesting. I stress that the Council, not the Commission, which, as we know, you claim to be Brussels bureaucrats who eat from the palm of George Soros [[Erik Bánki: That's right.]] And, by the way, a rural place is better directed here in Hungary than the Commission in Brussels, we heard from the Prime Minister at the time. The Council, i.e. the organisation of the Member States, states that the public health expenditure in Hungary is significantly lower than the EU average; it is very difficult to see the nominally unchanged and one of the lowest in the EU since 2012; the pay of teachers is one of the lowest in the EU; and this is directly linked to economic issues: the lack of competition in public procurement remains an important problem. Finally, let me address the issues of the so-called rule of law clause, which has come up with a strengthened link between EU funding and the rule of law in the new budget, in order to spend European taxpayers' money responsibly. If this is achieved, this means that the Union will suspend, reduce or limit access to EU funding in the event of such deficiencies. What's this about? When will this happen? If a Member State operates its tendering offices poorly; its prosecutors and investigators do not act thoroughly in EU money fraud cases; it does not guarantee the independence of the courts; it does not prevent, punish fraud in the suspicious spending of EU funds, or it does not cooperate with OLAF and the EU prosecutors. And when we object to this and struggle to join the European Union prosecutor's office, Hungary is not a question of loss of sovereignty, because it can only investigate EU money and cross-border VAT fraud, and it must refer its results to the national court. Well, yeah, we're fighting to make sure that doesn't happen. And the Council of Member States says that investigative and prosecution activities seem less effective in Hungary than in other states, there is no decisive and systematic action to prosecute high-level corruption. On this basis, is an active contributor in the Netherlands right to say that please look into it and reduce it? I think so. But the Jobbik disagree. Neither I nor the current MEP will vote for any amendments that would make Hungary less money. We do this because if the government makes a mistake or a crime, we shouldn't punish the whole country. There should be no doubt, if these resources are reduced, then the oligarchs who win the most money in strange ways often from these sources, not that money will be reduced, but fewer projects will be implemented, and the child will be thrown away along with the bath water. So, yes, we are fighting for this at home, but we believe that by replacing the Orbán system, we must fight our fight not in Brussels, with the withdrawal of money, with its agreement, but here in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-11-8	Thank you very much. Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, representative of the KDNP may now speak. Mr. Vice President.
u2020-06-11-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! First of all, I would like to thank everyone who, through their increased efforts, despite the pandemic difficulties, has prepared a draft budget for next year and so we have the opportunity to discuss it here in Parliament. In this connection, I would like to remind my fellow Members of the report by the State Audit Office of Hungary, which notes that, despite all the difficulties of the last few months, it has become a thorough and elaborate budget for this House, one which, through its considerable reserve, can create stability in unpredictable situations and provide security for Hungarian people, Hungarian families. The experience of the first wave of a slowly subsiding coronal virus epidemic in Hungary has also shown that countries that were successful have been successful mainly as a result of a stable and operational government work with sufficient budgetary resources available. On this basis, more and more people are saying that the role of security and stability will be appreciated in the coming years as a result of the pandemic. It seems quite likely that the level of security will ultimately be determined by the level of confidence in the state and by the state's capabilities. The ability to act, the ability to decide, is a key factor. However, trust is extremely important not only because of its role in the sense of security, but also from a financing point of view, the state, in which its own citizens and foreign investors trust, can obtain funds cheaper and easier. The investors' mood in recent years, the success of government bonds issued to foreigners, as well as the significant domestic purchase of government bonds by the Hungarian population indicate that our country is on the right track in this area. It is therefore worth looking at the 2021 budget in this respect and considering the extent to which it meets the challenge of stability and security as a pledge of the future. Perhaps we should start with the nearly HUF 3000 billion health insurance and epidemic fund, which will not only provide increased coverage for the financing of traditional health care and wage increases for healthcare workers, but also provide targeted support for the control of a possible new coronal virus epidemic. In terms of numbers, this means that by 2021 there is expected to be an 8 percent increase in resources in this area, which, even in terms of inflation of 3 per cent, means a significant increase in the amount that can be used in real terms. [[8.50]] Another outstanding decision to promote stability is the increase in the resources of the Economic Protection Fund by HUF 1200 billion, which will result in the availability of HUF 2550 billion in 2021. The government's decision to provide a reserve of 0.5 per cent of GDP for additional extraordinary measures will further strengthen this. Ladies and gentlemen, Real and lasting economic growth can only be achieved on a stable basis. The coronal virus epidemic has caused significant damage to the Hungarian economy, but, in contrast to, for example, the 2008 financial crisis, it does not seem to have been able to fundamentally shake the foundations of the economy, so it is expected that after this year's weaker performance, the Hungarian economy will return to its long-term growth path in 2021. This assumption is supported by the opinion of the Fiscal Council, according to which the strong fundamentals of the Hungarian economy and its already announced economic policy measures can ensure that Hungary's economic recovery continues and that the crisis caused by the epidemic is followed by a rapid recovery. The macroeconomic prognosis on which the draft budget law is based also expects the Hungarian economy to expand by 4.8 percent in 2021, while inflation and budget deficits remain in the target range of around 3 per cent. These figures clearly indicate, ladies and gentlemen, that the increase in public debt will continue, which is planned to fall from 72.6 percent this year to less than 70 percent next year. In addition to the amount of debt, of course, its composition is key, and there have also been joyful changes in this area, since net external debt has fallen from 52,6 per cent in 2008 to 7.9 per cent today. It can therefore be concluded that the economic policy, which has been going on since 2010, and which, not with austerity, but with the support of investment and families, has proved to be the right path. For this reason, in view of the expansion of the domestic economy, support for investment will be a key factor next year, which will increase by around 5.5 percent as a result of targeted measures. As a result of the gradual lifting of restrictions on markets and trade, which are paralyzing, but which are necessary to protect people's health and lives, exports increase by 10.5 percent, while imports are planned to increase by 8.9 percent. Such an increase in the economy will result in an increase of 1.6 percent in the number of people employed, according to the budget plan, who will be able to take home more salaries by an average of around 6.9 percent gross, i.e. a significant excess of inflation. This, I think, is extremely important for all of us to do so. The growing actions will not only fuel the economy, but will also mean real and tangible growth for Hungarian families after a difficult 2020 year in many respects, thanks to an increase in consumption of more than 3 percent. It should be noted here that the Hungarian families were in a much better position than the Hungarian population in 2008. Two speechable figures in this respect: the employment rate was 56.4 per cent in 2008 and more than 70 per cent in 2019. The rate of household savings, which is also extremely important, is only 2.1 per cent in 2008 for the possibility of moving reserves, while last year it reached 12 per cent. These are the results, honourable Members, which must be preserved despite the deteriorating circumstances. This brings us to one of the most important goals of Hungarian economic policy in terms of KDNP: getting Hungarian families to work and supporting Hungarian families. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year, the government will spend HUF 2295 billion more on supporting families with children. This amount has increased by two and a half times since 2010, so that the share of budget support allocated to this purpose is the highest in the EU as a whole. This is a very serious matter, and I believe that this is also important and unquestionable for my fellow opposition Members. The seriousness of this objective is indicated by the fact that during the most difficult period of the coronal virus epidemic, when we were forced to amend the 2020 budget, the government has done everything in its power to maintain the progress made in the slowing economic environment. We believe that a strong economy can only be built on strong families, who not only get to work, but also grow by earning income from work, and can get from one to two. This is why it is important that the government spends more than 317 billion forints next year to support families' home creation. The government is also thinking of families living in difficult financial circumstances, as the increasing amount of support for children's meals as well as the provision of textbooks that will be fully free will also be of great help. Although the future of families is clearly meant by the child, the elderly, who, after a life's work, often even with their personal contribution to their pensions and their financial support, also deserve recognition and appreciation. For this reason, next year the government has allocated more than HUF 325 billion, or more than 10 percent more, to retirement benefits, which, by means of the increase, the expected pension premium and the partial restoration of the 13th month pension, I believe will provide moral and financial appreciation and security for the retirement society. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, it can be concluded that the 2021 budget treats security, stability and support for families as a priority, and these are values that are essential for the development of a country. Therefore, from the KDNP Group, I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the draft budget law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, A representative of the MSZP, Congressman Csaba Tóth, may now speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, According to Article 3 of the European Charter for Local Self-Government, local self-government means the right and the ability of local authorities to regulate and manage, within the legislative framework, the essential part of public affairs in their respective fields of competence for the benefit of the local population. On this basis, we believe that it is the responsibility of local authorities to protect local public affairs and to meet the needs of the local population. However, the largest losers of the last ten years, measured by complex indicators, were municipalities representing local societies. The withdrawal of powers, under-financing of tasks costs, support system based on individual decisions against normative regulation, the withdrawal of own revenue overall resulted in the reduction of municipal expenditure in proportion to GDP from 11,6 per cent in 2010 to 6.9 per cent in 2019. This share will be reduced to 5.9 per cent on the basis of the municipal expenditure appropriations and the value of GDP in the 2021 bill. [[9.00]] The budget for 2021 puts municipalities in a very difficult position. Although the number of municipal tasks is increasing, the corresponding funding is decreasing. As a consequence, next year's budget will greatly reduce the room for manoeuvre of local authorities. At first, it may seem that municipalities can manage more money next year than this year, because the 2021 budget is HUF 198.1 billion higher than this year. However, this is only an appearance, as they ignore the fact that nominal value is weakened by inflation in 2021 on the one hand, and that additional obligations imposed on municipalities on the other, as well as the technical conditions for rising public employment, on the other. It is important to note that we can expect a steep increase in the number of people in need of social assistance and assistance next year, and that next year's budget will also have to address the need for replacements in 2021 due to funding difficulties in 2020. Furthermore, the situation is aggravated by the new withdrawals scheduled for 2021, as the government intends to raise a significant proportion of local taxes to county levels through special economic zones. It should also mention decisions on the pretext of crisis management involving central withdrawal, such as increasing the level of solidarity contribution, extending the group of debtors and withdrawing the part of the motor vehicle tax relating to municipalities. One of the most serious flaws in the draft budget for 2021 is that it does not anticipate a drastic rise in municipal liabilities. The closing value of this in 2019 is HUF 1268.5 billion in the MNB statement, which is expected to continue to increase in 2020. As a result of the decline in municipal revenues and the weakening of debt repayment capacity and the spread of chain debt, it can reach between 55 and 60 percent of municipal expenditure excluding additional loans in 2021. Local governments can expect a maximum revenue of HUF 810 billion from taxes determining their own revenues against the HUF 1030 billion gross revenues foreseen for 2020, which could mean a 20 percent reduction in tax revenues. However, municipalities should not only expect their income to fall as a result of the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. The solidarity contribution paid by the municipalities to the State goes through a number of changes in the budget for 2021. On the one hand, next year's budget will expand the number of municipalities that will have to pay a solidarity contribution. The lower limit of the obligation is reduced from HUF 34,000 per head to HUF 22 000 per person, which means that poorer settlements also have to pay a significant amount into the central budget. On this basis, the Secretary of State, who is responsible for this area, expressed his view in the days that the solidarity contribution will continue to serve to ensure that the richer settlements pay to the poorer settlements is highly questionable. On the other hand, the revenue on which the solidarity contribution is based also changes. To date, the contribution has been based on a part of the reduction that exceeds the basis for the inclusion, but will be the whole of the tax base determining the capacity for business in the future. These two changes have led to a quadruple increase in central revenue from the solidarity contribution. These withdrawals are also increased by the withdrawal of 40 percent of the tax on motor vehicles due to municipalities so far. This means a loss of HUF 400 million for my constituency, Zugló, both this year and next year, and the obligation to collect the tax remains a municipal task. In addition, the government did not give the municipalities any time to prepare for this loss of revenue, as the car tax was withdrawn very suddenly this year after the deadline for the establishment of municipal budgets, and in addition, a system that has been operational since 2013 and provided revenues to municipalities. The 60-40 percent share of the motor vehicle tax between the central budget and the local government was first introduced by Hungary's 2013 budget, but it is also worth mentioning that 100 percent of the motor vehicle tax previously belonged to the local government. Thus, the government changed the existing system of sharing for eight years without informing the municipalities in advance and giving them the opportunity to prepare for the reduction of resources. It is also regrettable that, although the government has indicated the management of the situation of withdrawal due to the coronal virus epidemic, it strongly questions this reason that, according to its plans, the withdrawal of the motor vehicle tax and the increase in the amount of the solidarity contribution will be maintained until 2024. This leads to the conclusion that the government expects a permanent and permanent withdrawal of municipalities, which removes their budgetary legs from important municipal institution systems and puts them in a precarious position. The capital can manage tens of billions of forints from less resources next year, which, according to the Mayor, will result in the City Council becoming a net contributor to the budget, i.e. paying more into the central budget than it receives back. But not only the capital, but also the district authorities are heavily burdened by these withdrawals. It is worth taking a look at Zugló's example of exactly what kind of municipal expenses the government withdraws from. These measures and the expected reduction of local taxes could mean a loss of nearly HUF 5 billion for Zugló, which, together with the above-mentioned cost increases, will result in the district managing by 15 percent less resources next year. This expected loss of HUF 5 billion will cut back from the Zugló social care system, for which the appropriation will be HUF 3.2 billion in 2020 and from the maintenance of the Zugló crèches, which would cost HUF 1.9 billion. The overall cost of maintaining these two institutional systems is as high as the fall in 2021 for the Zugló municipality. In addition, the amount expected to be abstracted by the government through an increase in the solidarity contribution is almost entirely the same as the cost of maintaining a kindergarten in Zugló. These withdrawals may be interpreted in other compositions. Zugló spends an amount similar to the social care system, HUF 3.2 billion on health care, the Zugló Health Service, local government law enforcement, HUF 430 million on family and child welfare centers. It can therefore be seen that the revenue loss of nearly HUF 5 billion from the district's entire day care system and district health care will yank out its budget legs and the government withdrawal of the motor vehicle tax will take away the funding of the family and child welfare centre. Let's see how the planned central budget affects the kindergarten institutional system maintained by the Zugló municipality. Zugló would have spent a total of HUF 4 billion on this, but the loss of nearly HUF 5 billion also puts the maintenance of kindergartens in jeopardy. In addition, government withdrawals can directly affect a kindergarten. For example, the withdrawal of a car tax is equal to the total budget of three kindergartens and the solidarity contribution may affect more institutions. The expected additional withdrawal of HUF 1.7 billion corresponds to the annual maintenance of nine kindergartens. It follows from the withdrawal of two government funds, i.e. the withdrawal of the car tax and the increase in the solidarity contribution, that Zugló may lose half of the amount required to maintain 24 kindergartens. The health care system, the social care system, kindergartens and crèches are areas that could be put at risk because of the withdrawal of funds and the loss of income. This is why it is important that the government does not divert funds from local authorities, but, on the contrary, to increase the support of local authorities and to replace the expected loss of business tax in 2021. Failure to do so could jeopardise the functioning of countless institutions for the care of the inhabitants of the settlements and the district. In addition to leading to bankruptcy for many Hungarian governments, these withdrawals go against the European requirements of the local government. The European Charter of Local Authorities sets out a number of requirements that the state must fulfil in relation to local authorities. This Charter was published in Hungary in 1997 and has since become a mandatory element of the Hungarian legal system. On the basis of the Charter, first of all, it is necessary to provide local authorities with budgetary resources that are essential for carrying out mandatory tasks. [[9.10]] Secondly, local authorities must be provided with resources that enable them not only to perform mandatory tasks but also to carry out voluntary tasks in the field of local public affairs. In Hungarian, you have to put the municipalities in a position to meet the specific expectations of the community they represent. The 2021 budget is clearly not like this, which rightly raises the possibility that the Government will fail to fulfil its obligations under the international treaty. The MSZP basically sees the future of local governments differently. We want the local authorities to have competence, economic and professional autonomy in organising and operating all public services that are the defining conditions for the lives of people living in the local areas. Such is the organisation and operation of health, education and social care. Therefore, we expect the municipalities to receive the necessary financial cover from the State budget to carry out their mandatory tasks. This budget does not provide them with this. Thank you very much, Mr President.
u2020-06-11-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now the representative of Fidesz, Congressman Erik Bánki, may speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2021, as State Secretary András Tállai confirmed today, is a budget for economic protection. The focus of the budget is on re-launching the economy that has been in difficulty with the coronal virus epidemic and maintaining epidemiological preparedness. The most important issue for the government and for the members of the Fidesz fraction is, naturally, the life, health and safety of people. Therefore, the Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund includes the resources necessary for the control of the epidemic and the operation of the health care system, to an amount of more than HUF 3 000 billion. In addition to saving people's lives, our priority is to allow the economy to return to its former career of outstanding performance at European level as soon as possible. This is the goal of Hungary's biggest economic protection programme, which supports the re-launching and strengthening of the economy by some HUF 10 000 billion in three years, which is no less, ladies and gentlemen than 20 percent of gross domestic product. As I said in yesterday's speech to the lead speaker, we should be proud to vote in this House for another step in this economic recovery package in the 2021 budget, that we belong to the three Member States of the 27 Member States of the European Union who have launched a recovery programme of 20 per cent or above GDP, because, ladies and gentlemen, only the Czech Republic and Germany have done so, apart from us. Apart from us, there are only ten countries in the European Union who have dared to launch an economic protection programme of more than 10 percent. I think that we are the brave ones who will succeed, because in this extraordinary situation we need to take extraordinary measures to preserve the former performance of the Hungarian economy and thus guarantee the safety of Hungarian people. Through the Economic Protection Fund, the next budget of 2021 will reach HUF 2550 billion in total for companies, businesses and even local governments who wish to become active participants in the re-launching of the economy. When we talk about these figures, ladies and gentlemen, it is deeply disappointing that on yesterday's debate, the opposition, which we can safely call the left with the merger of Jobbik, has done nothing but criticized this budget all the time. Ferenc Gyurcsány ventured to call the budget of weakness and cowardice a budget that, by the way, can be called a historical scale in terms of numbers, goals and ambitions. Therefore, on behalf of the Fidesz faction, but I can safely say that on behalf of all Hungarian people, I also reject the cynicism that was permitted yesterday by Mr Gyurcsány faction leader. With regard to disease management, the Hungarian government is considered a coward, since it was the first or the first of the European Union countries to take all the measures of the government, and this is why the epidemic has not reached the stage of mass diseases in Hungary. It is enough to look around, ladies and gentlemen, in countries of our size, in Belgium or in Sweden, where the number of diseases was 10-12 times higher than in our case, which I think would have been unacceptable in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, As much as it hurts you, the numbers don't lie. Hungary has successfully defended itself and has excelled in the epidemic situation. The crisis management of the Socialists, the Left, has already taught us a lesson in 2008-2010. Then perhaps it is understandable, understandable, although it cannot be accepted by you that now, according to the successful activity of the government, the grapes are sour for you. If I could live in this House with Miklós Zsolnay's favourite saying, my fellow Members, then I can compare the crisis management of the left with the conservative side. Miklós Zsolnay's riddle was the difference between a geologist and a theologian. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Heaven and earth.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Professor Mellar, who is from Pécs, rightly says heaven and earth. Well, that's the difference between the crisis management of the Fidesz and KDNP governments and the crisis management of the left. Let us look at the facts, fellow Members. The left-wing governments did nothing but destroy health care during the crisis, bankrupt hospitals. Forints 650 billion were taken from health care, 16,000 active beds were removed in their period and 6,000 heard well: 6,000 medical workers were dismissed. Plus, as if that wasn't enough, they took a month's wages from health care workers. Between 2002 and 2010, there were endless waiting lists and the health infrastructure was completely destroyed. Hospitals accumulated HUF 130 billion in debt in Hungary, which, of course, was then consolidated by the Orbán government. The small drugstores were close to bankruptcy, while the price of drugs increased by 70 percent. In the last three years of left-wing governance, ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention: the National Rescue Service has not been able to obtain any new ambulances. Not one in three years! And do you know why this could have happened, fellow Members? Because in those three years, no penny in the budget was planned to buy ambulances. This left is criticizing the Hungarian government now in the time of the fight against the epidemic, which, I think, my honourable fellow Member, is more than ridiculous. If the left had been able to continue the rampage in health after 2010, today we would not have had the chance to fight the coronal virus epidemic. What have they done now during the crisis? They did not vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act, nor did they vote in favour of the special legal order allowing rapid action. Since the beginning of the epidemic, the left has been rooting for the failure to defend itself, but he is busy with political attacks and attacks on the back of Hungary again and again in Brussels. On the other hand, my fellow Members, in recent months, the Hungarian Government has been working to protect the health of Hungarian people, to protect jobs and to protect the performance and results of the Hungarian economy since 2010. While the government protects jobs and creates new jobs through continuous economic recovery measures, wage subsidies, investment programmes, and economic protection action plans, the left is busy putting Hungary in a debt trap with eternal bonds invented by György Soros. However, we, fellow Members, think differently. We, like every year since 2010 and every decision we make, this time we are on the side of the people, the Hungarian people. [[9.20]] In the 2021 budget, approximately HUF 2115 billion is available for health purposes. This was nearly HUF 918 billion more than the last budget submitted by the Socialists in 2010 and HUF 156 billion higher than the one we spent this year on the health sector from the national budget. The left is also uncredited when it talks about protecting jobs, because when they were ruling, they were dealing with the crisis with austerity. The crisis management of the Left worked as follows: they put more and more burdens on the shoulders of the people instead of helping them. This was the Bokros package, and so was the series of cuts in 2009-2010. But let us see, ladies and gentlemen, exactly what happened in the context of crisis management in 2009-2010. The left-wing government at the time closed the 13th month pension; reduced the duration of the child; increased the VAT rate by 5 per cent, while at the same time reducing it by 5 per cent with a campaign goal; involved the family allowance in taxation; increased the retirement age; reduced the pensionable age; took a month's wages from the public sector; no longer managed to introduce a property tax; the change of government prevented this; and in addition, with a gigantic IMF loan, drove the Hungarian budget into debt. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, the government has been doing everything in its power since 2010 to protect Hungarian people, to ensure the safety, health and life of Hungarian people, and to improve their living conditions. We pay special attention to pensioners, people who had to rebuild this country once after the World War, and then they were also part of the economic crisis in 2008-2009, and they also took a great deal of part of it. We think that, as before, we need to see and feel this concern not only at the level of words, but also at the level of action. This is why, despite the crisis, we decided to gradually re-establish, in four steps, the 13th month pension that was taken from them by left-wing governments just during the previous economic crisis. To this end, next year's budget will include the first one week's pension increase, which, of course, as promised, pensioners will receive in January. Ladies and gentlemen, If you read the priorities and objectives of the 2021 budget in detail, you will see that despite the crisis, in 2021 the budget will be estimated at 7.2 percent higher than this year. We can do this because, according to our calculations, due to the economic protection action plan, Hungary will be one of the lowest fall in economic performance. We hope that by confirming the government's prognosis, next year's economic growth could be close to 5 percent. This will also give us the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to fulfil, in the framework of the Economic Protection Action Plan, the commitment that Prime Minister has personally promised: as many jobs as the virus takes, we will create as many jobs. So the Hungarian people can be calm, we continue to believe in the work-based economy, we continue to think that people should not be kept on welfare, but that they should be offered work, so that they can be actively involved in social responsibility, and with their tax payments and contributions, they can also be part of the crisis management programme that the Hungarian government intends to implement through the 2021 budget. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take seriously the debate on the budget in Parliament, not to reject the proposals that the Hungarian Government is making, not to politicalise from gut to government, but to take a deep breath, to consider the good decisions that Hungarian people can make in 2021. And if these decisions are included in this budget for our proposals, then they will be supported, because I think that is what we are doing best for Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-11-14	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Perhaps we could continue there with what Mr Bánki Erik, President of the Economic Commission, said to think about doing good to people and making good decisions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a few minutes ago the meeting of the Committee on Budgets ended, where, with the support and majority support of the pro-government representatives, this year's year, when the 2020 budget was amended, changed the rules so far, 11 billion forints were taken from Budapest capital with a decision. If that is what you mean by making good decisions, then congratulations. By changing many things here, penalty measures are being taken day by day, and it also obliges the capital to pay in addition to the withdrawals so far, this is beyond what they are doing. In spite of the efforts of the municipalities, or, in my opinion, not only correct, but also active and very effective cooperation that has taken place in the prevention and reduction of the epidemic threat, well, all good deeds will be punished, as we are now assessing, or what has appeared here in the previous. If we look beyond the concrete event or the concrete case here and want to have a real debate about this budget and heed Mr President's words, then I must go back to the fact that the debate that started yesterday is really happening, not just here next to each other, but by conflicting substantive arguments in some way, and, in this sense, to differ a little from what many of my fellow Members here with fidesz say that it is not here that we should debate, but that TV should speak outwards. And I say, yes, a substantive debate can be held on the budget. In this respect, I must say that your ten-year economic and social system has failed. The consequence of this failure is that in any crisis situation, they are not able to go beyond and consider and open up a new situation or new opportunities for the future. I think, and I would like to define in this respect what I mean by this, that it failed, because here the narrative is, let's say, high-level, and they are happy to talk about how much better it has been for wealthy families, how much more they receive, how much better it will be for the 806 businesses they otherwise give 150 billion forints to save 150,000 jobs. I'm just asking you quietly, what about the other 599,000 businesses? When will they be dealt with? When, for example, do you give them the opportunity to appear in the register, in the statistics? This is the situation of enterprises under five. Because if you ignore that, and you're not being generous, but I think you're irresponsiblely ignoring yourself, so you're essentially deceiving yourself. But if I go out on the street and look at the billboards, it's not themselves, it's society that's being deceived and lied to. I'll give you another example. Anyone should try to go into any bank and ask them for a zero percent loan. There's no such thing as a country full of posters with this picture! So, ladies and gentlemen, since this is the situation that is being created in relation to many people, the fact that you can maintain your family, that, in essence, you are not dealing with hundreds of thousands of people other than those who have run out of resources, and they are not even given the opportunity to say, instead of three months, instead of 90 days' unemployment benefit, I would say that, in line with international practice, it is much better to use such a word, so that there is some greater chance that these people will find their jobs, just in the hoped economic progress that seems somewhat or even too optimistic to me when planning this budget. [[9.30]] The situation is quite peculiar, because in the beginning of this year, which may be the starting point for 2021, you will expect the least danger or consequences, while from the economic side, you will expect the fastest reconnaissance. I sincerely wish that this would happen to Hungary so that it would be appropriate, but I cannot accept that their budget is being shaped and that they create operational conditions in which budgetary decisions, the right to dispose of resources, are being taken away from Parliament. By being established, essentially not only during the period of epidemic danger, but essentially throughout their entire operation... and here I am returning to the fact that this economic system has failed because, by the way, this right has been removed from Parliament. My fellow Member Lajos Szűcs used to mention it, or at least sometimes I hear him say that Parliament does not need to negotiate budget amendments or legislative proposals. No, because, by the way, every night, here, in this epidemic period, the government has done exactly the same thing last year, but only not at night, but at the most, they have made weekly decisions in which, instead of authorising Parliament, instead of making a decision, the government has made it legal to make these decisions in a narrow circle. I believe that democracy in this form is significantly damaged, that the right to control has been removed from here, and that is assisted by pro-government representatives, and that, in this respect, in political terms, the Committee on Budgets is the biggest victim, but everyone can be happy, because everything goes through in this respect at the Committee on Economic Affairs. In conclusion, I can tell you that this budget, I could say, is a picture of the Hungarian model, which is a state-oriented model, everything by you and precisely by the government in the form of a party-state decision making... you do not want to change even if there is a very serious economic crisis, and you refuse to take into account the views of the people in this operation and the situation of those who drink the consequences of it most, who are struck by the whip, and in the meantime make such decisions. I think that, whether in the field of education or health, and I am thinking about the latter, in the area of health, I think that millions of citizens may have faced the fact that the healthcare system that can only solve something or prepare for an epidemic risk, while all other health services are essentially closed and unable to carry out, at least there must be something wrong. You cannot handle this problem, essentially without substantial resources, and even with some enlargement, because, if I remember correctly, it will increase by 0.6 percent what you intend to do, but in fact, you will not face the fact that this health system is not only a risk to the epidemic, but also a quality solution to health services itself. It does not help anyone in the process of creating and developing a very high-quality, otherwise very expensive system, or calling it a system, but health services that private service providers can use for people who can pay for it. It's just, you know, I've also met someone who sells his house so that he can use the healthcare system or the health services. I think you should think about these millions. What is needed is that if a new situation has been created here because of the epidemic threat, we can say that the economic situation has changed within the health framework, too, that they should be brave enough to face it, and even have a common opportunity, a shared responsibility for how we can change it. Unfortunately, this budget does not provide support, it does not provide briefing, they go their own way, and they think that if the Butcher families are happier here in the next period, because their paid dividends give them the opportunity to use these health services, and otherwise they will not help those millions. With all due respect, I suggest that this budget be withdrawn, that you begin a consultation that gives you the opportunity, in substance, to give the local government space, in accordance with our common philosophy, beyond the health, education system, otherwise, at the time of the regime change, I might say, to give the local government the opportunity to do so, and not to distract you from what you are doing. That vendetta, the punishment that has been actually carried out here today, and that is what they want to enforce here in the next few days, is the budget of the force, which exactly confirms when I say that a state-centred and loyalty-based system is inadequate for Hungarian citizens to succeed in this country. So you won't be surprised if, for example, the health system suffers further damage by many, many people leaving this country because they can't get well here. This budget does not contribute to this, so I ask that we withdraw and submit a new one. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-11-16	Thank you very much. Mr László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP. Here.
u2020-06-11-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear, clearly, that our recent months, and our present and the near future ahead, have been defined and defined by the pandemic, despite all this, I think it is safe to say that the 2021 Budget Law proposal will allow for a safe and balanced central fiscal management. Of course, as we had to modify the 2020 budget as a consequence, the proposed budget law for 2021 is also defined in the fight against pandemics and pandemics. The 2021 budget is also a budget for a fresh start and economic protection. According to the bill, the government will spend more than HUF 2550 billion on the epidemiological defense fund, HUF 2295 billion to support families, HUF 67 billion more than in this year. Forints 3907 billion are available next year, HUF 327 billion more than in 2020. We will spend HUF 78 billion more on education, HUF 2229 billion in total, and HUF 156 billion more on health care, HUF 2115 billion in the following year according to the bill. So it is safe to say that next year's budget will provide security, help and support the economic recovery, and will help the epidemiological defence in the coming year. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to talk a little bit more about two important areas for the KDNP, first about national policy, support for national policy, resources, and then about church policy. This year we remember, on the 100th anniversary of the mournful peace dictatorship in Trianon, and I think that is why it is important that we carry out an evaluation of where we started in the last ten years, ten years ago, in the last few years. [[9.40]] I think we have come a long way in the area of national policy. Perhaps we can say that apart from one or two political parties, there is consensus in setting our national political goals, more or less in the legal framework and legal instruments with which we have established that we can now say that we have reunited the nation in a public-law sense. Today, perhaps, there is no discussion between us either that the programmes that we have launched over the past few years are good programmes, useful programmes, and have demonstrated that they serve well our national policy goals, which, as I said, we have accepted or accepted by consensus, apart from at least one or two parties. What are these legal frameworks that we need to remember? Obviously, the first and most important was the law on the importance of national cohesion, which was adopted in 2010, and then the law on preferential localization, and then the Fundamental Law, which states that the mother country, Hungary, bears responsibility for the lives of Hungarian communities across the border and Hungarians across the border. In addition, we have restarted the Hungarian Diaspora Council, launched the work of the Hungarian Diaspora Council, so we have created a legal, constitutional and fundamental legislative framework that has given us the right opportunity to start the process of nation building within the legal framework after the unification. What are the programmes with which we wanted and want to fill these legal frameworks, and which can be used as a means to fill and implement our national policy goals? Obviously, those identity-preserving, cultural, religious or civil programs, or those institutions of national importance that serve not only the survival of Hungarian communities across borders, but also the building of the future, and also the launch of programmes of strategic importance, in recent years, of economic development programmes. A new element is the tourism development programme for national policy purposes, which I think is a very innovative programme for the future. In order not only to speak in general, allow me, fellow Members, to mention some of these specific programmes, obviously just as a repetition - the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, which we launched, the Petőfi Sándor programme, the Mikes Kelemen programme, the Julian programme. Such a programme was the strengthening and broadening of education and training grants, such as the programme of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and Transcarpathia's development tasks and cooperation, which will continue in the following year as well as other programmes. As I mentioned, such a programme was the economic development programme, in which we invested more than HUF 230 billion in helping and supporting parts of the nation in our cross-border areas, which also helps Hungarian businesses in their existential situation and, not least, means development and modernisation in cross-border areas. As I mentioned, the support for the National Policy Tourism Development Programme is a very important programme in the next year's budget. This is a programme starting with a budget of 2 billion, which, I think, can serve our national policy goals well. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important that we have been able to support and support these programmes year after year in the Budget Act, and it is a pleasure that, despite the pandemic, the budget for the following year will not be reduced, but the support for national policy programmes will increase. Over the last ten years, we have multiplied budget subsidies and subsidies for national policy by ten, and in the next year we can take further steps to achieve this. The budget for 2021 will provide HUF 64 billion as a source for these various national policy programmes, which will ensure that we can partially implement the extended programmes and tasks, while partly guaranteeing support for the new start-up programmes and, in addition, individual, other funding resources are available, whether for specific investments, institutions or higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In short, I would like to move on to a brief analysis of church policy subsidies. The Fundamental Law ensures that not only the constitutional separation of the state and churches is achieved in Hungary, but also provides and provides an opportunity and framework for the state and churches, state and historical churches to achieve quality cooperation for the benefit and service of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, Hungarian national communities across borders. Our churches have been serving the Hungarian nation for centuries, as the Fundamental Law says, they have been a nation-sustaining force for Hungary in the past and they are still present today, so the faith-life activity, the social, health, education and education service that the churches have filled and filled, is still of strategic importance in our lives. In the Carpathian Basin, our historical churches represent a living community and a functioning network, which is not just a network, but in this network concrete, real people, concrete, real communities live their daily lives, they are also in the smallest settlements, they perform essential service in the sporadic, they represent community-sustaining and community-forming power, institutional networks and institutional systems. In view of all this, KDNP regards the service of the churches with respect and respect, which serves the whole society and the whole nation at the same time. Allow me, my fellow Members, to highlight some of these important programmes: support for religious public collections and public education institutions; support for faith teaching; substitute income for church persons serving in settlements of less than five thousand inhabitants. I would like to point out that we will double this support in the following year, just as in the case of the support of clergymen serving abroad, which is, of course, a huge achievement, that despite the fact that we are in the midst of such a global crisis and a pandemic, the Hungarian government expresses its appreciation for the assistance and support of clergymen, priests and clergymen in this form. I could also mention the support of pastoral and mental care professionals in hospitals and health institutions, the support of the religious activities of Hungarians living in foreign and diaspora; and, in addition, it is very important to mention the function of the church institution; the budget chapter of the sija provision and supplement, in which the increase of 2.8 billion will be made in the following year. This is the legal determination, so it is actually about the concrete implementation of the laws currently in force. The same applies with regard to the non-transferable property benefit, we often say that in terms of the per diem, where an increase of HUF 820 million will be made: 20.1 billion will be available to the churches instead of HUF 19.3 billion. [[9.50]] I would also like to highlight, my fellow Members, the support for the protection of church-built heritage and other investments, as well as support for religious community programmes: the availability of resources to support community building, public service and projects of faith, culture, education, social and religious tourism. These are ongoing investments and new start-up investments, which, of course, I will not be able to describe in detail here, because everyone can do so. This means that for this purpose, compared to the 2020 legislative options, which amounted to HUF 24 billion, this will provide a budget of HUF 32 billion in the following year to help and support the churches and the Hungarian churches outside of Hungary and to implement investment and community development programmes. Let me highlight two more of these goals, which are very important, I think, for all of us, for the whole nation and society: support for teaching faith and ethics, and support for non-state human services for social purposes, which will provide HUF 140.7 billion in support of non-state human services in the following year instead of HUF 120.4 billion this year, including the increase in teacher wages, the increase in nursery rents, minimum wage compensation, which I think is also a very important achievement. And it is a very good thing, it is a great thing that, despite all the fact that we are struggling with a global crisis, we can take these steps, because they all concern Hungarian children, Hungarian people, Hungarian families and workers who work for these people and families day by day in these institutions, doing sacrifice work. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, the parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the draft budget law for 2021, and we also ask the other groups to support this budget and vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-11-18	Thank you very much. Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction. Here.
u2020-06-11-19	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, we are not in the Chamber right now, Mr Erik Bánki, Chairman of the Economic Committee. He referred to what is, in theory and in words, very important that, at this time, when negotiating a budget law, we should put aside party policy thinking and try to have a substantive debate and try to make decisions on various proposals, motions and points of debate. I feel that this was obviously a rhetorical catch for everyone, but this is a very cynical impression of such a debate that we have seen from the President of the Commission. At the same time, I insist that I would like to open a debate or take part in the debate, with concrete examples and figures on the table; and in this way the LMP fraction will present its amending proposals. We will present nearly 200 amendments, and we are very confident that one of the pro-government representatives will be able to discuss them in substance. Member Erik Bánki will also have specific opportunities to support forward-looking amendments to his narrower country, Baranya County, also as pro-government representatives. Well, in a budgetary debate, it is quite clear that it is a different situation, we can say, a different debate. This is the most important debate of the Parliament every year, because this is where reality is revealed. So it's clear here that if you look at the numbers or look behind the numbers, you can see what's real behind government rhetoric and propaganda. So, on the one hand, we can see what they're talking about, what they're doing propaganda, and on the other hand, there's also an impression in the budget of the billions they spend on propaganda, and on the other hand, what they're doing is clearly traceable from the results of your ten-year governance, and on the other hand, from the budget numbers. Unfortunately, we can tell you that the governance of the last ten years, with nothing good or good to say about the period before 2010, has also caused terrible damage to the Hungarian nation and has put us in an extremely vulnerable position. In addition to the fact that we are now faced with a global epidemic in the context of the coronal virus epidemic, which warns everyone that the logic of the global economy cannot go further than it was, and that what the Hungarian government is also slavishly tracking, and that therefore a fundamental change of direction is needed, this also does not appear. The recognition of this is neither reflected in the debate nor in the number of budgets. So in no way will they respond to the visible and visible challenges of the past ten years, what are the most important for the Hungarian nation today, and in no way will they respond to the huge transformation that the problems presented by the economic crisis and the virus, vulnerability, as well, have been underlined. That's perfectly clear. So, in particular, they ignore what everyone already accepts, that we can't go on as we've been thinking, either you or your predecessors, who have almost the same economic policy as you. And if we are listening to these slogans, which we have now heard from several Members in this debate, Mr Szászfalvi also said that a fresh start is that the budget for economic protection, the budget for security, let us look at a number that if we say it, then it will basically show how credible the government proposal is, how credible the budget law that has been put forward and how credible the pro-government speeches are. We have had several debates with the Secretary of State over the past period, and then we discussed the Budapest-Belgrád railway line for hours, but it turns out that there are items in the budget that we do not know the absolute value of; see next year's budget, the Budapest-Belgrád railway project hidden within the railway development source, we do not know exactly. [[For signal:]] Come on. I'm glad we know that, but we're talking about a lot over a hundred billion. On the other hand, Mr State Secretary, we do not know exactly how this will benefit the Hungarian nation, broken down in numerical terms and presented. So if we are talking about what we are agreeing on here is that economic protection, job creation, job protection and job creation are very important, the most important challenge is that we do not know exactly what this amount of more than 100 billion will mean next year. This year, the government spends 80 billion dollars on this project. This is 180 billion forints a year and a half, which, based on your calculations, we can say is enough to create 150 thousand new jobs. Now, this is not for creating new jobs, but for the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, for which there is no return guarantee, but not even a set of requirements. That's how credible your policy is. They're giving up 150,000 new jobs without any guarantees. This is how serious we can take your communication when we talk about economic protection and the creation of new Hungarian jobs. Because if we could see clearly how many jobs this HUF 180 billion actually creates and this exceeds the figure of 150,000 that we would say is the most recent job creation programme, then we could say that it is the right decision, but there is no such guarantee, honourable Members. Well, what are the challenges that we are facing, and which are partly due to the mistakes of your predecessors, partly from your ten-year government, which follows the same, virtually the same neoliberal logic that the governments that preceded. It is quite amazing and apocalyptic to the extent of the emigration that we are experiencing, which, by the way, accelerated in 2011-12. It's quite horrible. We can see that in some areas, these are already very, very difficult to stop processes, particularly in relation to small settlements. There's a lot of poverty. Social differences have certainly increased over the last decades and decades, and the social divide has increased. The territorial differences have been tremendously deepened. As I have already mentioned, there are rural areas where a specific substantive development policy should be implemented so that the permanent detachment of the region can be stopped, but we can see that they are going in a completely different direction and that certain government measures are even accelerating these processes. The infrastructure is going down to an astonishing extent. Some priority projects can be said to be positive, but at the same time, it is extremely important that the infrastructure needed for the functioning of the Hungarian economy, for ensuring social processes and for balanced territorial development is being built to a very shocking and rapid extent. And that's what your absolutely amazing policy, which is once again following their spiritual ancestors, the rail-destructive policy of the Bajna government. We can see that HUF 1000 billion will be spent on the Budapest-Belgrád project serving Chinese great powers, and 34 railway sidelines will be condemned to death from the other side, following the same logic as the Balliberal predecessors. So this is also a rural, rural and anti-rural policy, which you represent, in your use of the word. This budget and your policy show that you do not perceive the 21st century. The challenges of the century and the country are not being prepared to meet these challenges. [[10.00]] We could talk about climate change for a long time, we have had time to discuss this thoroughly in the last few weeks, and to draw conclusions that the government still does not feel this in principle. In words, they already say that they know and understand climate change and the problems arising from the current drastic rate of environmental destruction, but it is clear that they have not yet reached the point of action to do something about it. They do nothing to destroy natural resources. Your policy, which, unfortunately, can be traced to the very shocking figures in next year's budget, is countering urban policy. We know that we must take very, very important measures against these issues, and therefore also against climate change, at local level, at the level of urban policy, and your policy is contrary to that. So, not only do they give the opportunities, the legal environment and the financial resources, all the support to the municipalities and cities to combat these effects, but they follow a policy that is contrary to that, they bleed out the municipalities, and they do not give the cities the opportunity to prepare for these challenges. And likewise, we can see that the XXI. They do not perceive the economic challenge of the century, the economic challenge that requires a different philosophy. You simply launched an attack on scientific life, launched an attack on higher education, making it impossible or difficult for Hungary to prepare for these extremely important challenges. There are huge items in the budget, and I will describe this in detail, which could be used otherwise, so that we can better meet these challenges, but you spend them in a different direction, so that they specifically raise the resources that would be needed in order for the Hungarian economy to achieve meaningful adjustment. And one of these, which I have already mentioned, is the overall 1,000 billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád project, and from the other side, and obviously this debate I have no chance of opening up in such a short timeframe is the issue of the Paks II project, on which we can say that you are practically setting Hungarian energy policy on a forced course, that generations will be indebted, and that you are currently pursuing a project on which we can only see delays. We'll see about that. By 30 months, which I don't even know what deadline it is, they can submit the authorisation documentation at all. However, we can see how many tens of billions have been spent on this project from the other side. The declaration of war on scientific life, higher education, should also be mentioned as an important problem. This year's budget was just the other day, Mr Secretary of State, we were able to ask about this 15 billion withdrawal in relation to the higher education sector, universities, and we can see that next year's budget figures will be a huge loser in higher education for next year's budget, which is again about living up to the future. That is why we say and for many other reasons that this budget is a scenario for the future. You are talking about how you say you are making a change in higher education. In the present situation, there is a change in higher education at the reading of the Hungarian government, that today in Hungary a university assistant with a scientific degree earns less than a charger, and they do not want to do anything with this problem, and in contrast, you also impose brutal restrictions and withdrawals in relation to higher education. We are facing serious challenges here in terms of consistency, and here again I am looking at Mr Secretary of State. Well, we'd like to see the numbers that are the expected returns, the guarantees of exploitation and the rest behind these different big projects and huge amounts of 100 billion; we don't see them. So it can be said that if you throw a lot of more than a hundred billion into the budget, write that you have been encrypted for 10 years by Budapest-Belgrád, then we can talk about the fact that you have submitted virtual reality to the Parliament. You can expect the opposition representatives to vote for this, of course, by following the party logic, they will blindly press "yes," because party loyalty is all that matters to you. By the way, this project is against the interests of the nation at the same time, and it would be your dog's duty to question this project, it would be your dog's duty to demand these documents the loudest, the guarantees of return, and if you do not see that this project, I don't know, will bring hundreds of thousands of jobs and then vote it off. Well, you didn't do that. I can only speak in a very short time frame, so I have no chance to give basically a detailed and overview review of this devastating budget, but I would like to refer to a few things. I have already mentioned the Budapest-Belgrád project, with which you are also reviving the future. I do not wish to go into the technical details of the project, that practically the whole profession has shown that this project is completely pointless. This is a minimum of a hundred billion items next year. I hope that we can now learn from the detailed tables of the budget exactly how much more than 100 billion this amount is, but it is certain that, on the other hand, it is causing serious damage to Hungarian transport policy, causing serious damage to rural policy. You are pursuing an anti-rural policy, an anti-rural policy, which is not a stopping policy, but a speeding-up policy. We know that, unfortunately, next year there will be the opening up of the market for cross-border public transport, which is an EU commitment. We very much disagree with this, but it is an EU obligation. However, it would have been your duty to prepare the country for the past ten years, to prepare the state transport company and to prepare the organizational side and system of Hungarian public transport at all for this to happen. Compared to this, the acquisition of vehicles was minimal, the now integrated Hungarian Volán company is in a very degraded state, bled out. Therefore, you have served the country, delivered transport policy, which is obviously once again a very serious omen to stop the development and break-off of the countryside. If we look at next year's budget figures, you don't want to face this problem next year either. In fact, vehicle purchases continue in such a way, but there is a lack of substantial budgetary resources needed in order to establish a Community transport system of sufficient quality and, in all respects, better than the current one. But I will just say one more item: we have talked a lot about the importance of rural development or the serious problems in the countryside. I have already said that 17,000 kilometers of lower roads await immediate renovation, so they are in the wrong or the wrong category. A large part of these can no longer be properly renovated, these lower roads must be rebuilt. I would add that this 17,000 kilometers is only the national-reserved lower-class road network, and we do not know the exact number of thousands of kilometres in municipal treatment and municipal maintenance in a horrific state. Now, compared to that, you're only providing budget resources in the order of a hundred billion dollars. So we can see that the trend is that, year after year, under your governance, the road network in the countryside will not slowly improve, no, it will continue to deteriorate. Well, they don't want to stop that trend either. So, let alone renovate the extremely damaged rural road network inherited as a difficult, truly difficult socialist heritage, but you will continue to decompose and degrade it. And what I've already mentioned with half a sentence is quite shameful, that 34 railway sidelines are virtually doomed to death. I would now like to quote here the very appropriate speeches made by János Fónagy in 2009. There is no technical or economic explanation for this, but there is no budgetary explanation. You will cause such serious damage to the countryside, which will be irreparable at any time, no matter what change of government. You will allow the very important infrastructure in the countryside, the railway sidelines, to be destroyed, and you will give it cynical arguments that are perfectly consistent with what your predecessors, the Bajnai government, used to do. This is completely outrageous! I very much hope that the mayors of the affected areas, perhaps even more conscientious and courageous pro-government representatives, will rebel and will do everything in their power to prevent you from continuing this railroad-destructive, anti-rural, village-destroying policy. This is completely outrageous! I would like to refer to another large system, which, unfortunately, few and little are spoken about in the Parliament, and in the last few days, we have been able to argue with Mr Lajos Kósa about this: this is the situation of the water sector. I would very much like to have an opportunity here, Mr State Secretary, to talk about this, because I have not yet found a government figure who would at least dare to debate in substance about this huge set of problems, on which the profession has practically beaten the bell for many years. It is the most important public service, the provision of healthy drinking water, the disposal of waste water on the other side, the cleaning of waste water, and therefore the protection of water bases. We know that if the water bases are damaged, it is irreparable, and in this way we are endangering our most important treasure. Compared to this, there are 65,000 kilometres of pipe network waiting for immediate renovation in Hungary today. During your government cycle, and here too, it is an important remark that it didn't go down in your time, so you inherited an extremely bad situation, but you allowed it to continue to break down, since 2012, the number of failures in the pipeline has doubled. Professional estimates amount to between 1500 and 3000 billion, which, in the 15-year horizon, are lacking beyond the existing resources in order to provide this most important infrastructure. What amount is that? If we count 3000 billion in the 15-year horizon, that is 200 billion forints a year in addition to the currently planned resources. Now, in comparison to this year's budget and last year's budget, you have planned a HUF 1.5 billion utility reconstruction framework; I do not see such a framework in the next year's budget. It's pretty amazing. [[10.10]] In addition, of course, we know the situation of water companies, water utilities companies are dealing with 40 or a few of these companies, ten companies expect immediate financial assistance because they are on the verge of collapse. One of the largest state companies, the CEO of Alföldvíz, announced in January that this year's losses were HUF 1.7 billion. What are you waiting for? Will you wait for one of the largest Hungarian state-owned utility companies to go bankrupt? Where are the resources in next year's budget that would at least start to face these problems? They're not in there. On the other hand, the proposals of the profession are constantly being swept off the table about the withdrawal of the sectoral utility tax or the reduction of VAT, which you do not deal with, but on the other hand, you do not put substantial budgetary resources there to slow down at least the disintegration of the sector as a whole. So I repeat: 200 billion HUF is missing annually from the maintenance of water utilities. And let's not have any illusions, it's a huge set of problems, which, year after year, is a growing problem in financials, and you're gonna make it happen by making it work out from tender sources. Well, I don't know, over the 15-year horizon, perhaps my fellow Members feel how unrealistic it is to solve this from tender sources. I would like to talk briefly about one more sector, the restrictions on local governments. My fellow opposition Members have talked about this a lot, and I myself have talked about it in the debates of the last few weeks, but I think it is very important to approach this from a slightly different perspective. Here is a serious problem and a problem with democracy: you bleed out the municipalities, take away their assets, take away a lot of municipal decision-making powers to the level of top politics. But let it be clear that the biggest problem, after all, is that people living in cities, towns and villages will suffer the damage, so less of these withdrawals will be made by the municipalities to maintain the most important public services, which, in turn, will have to be provided by the municipalities. So you are affecting local governments with brutal austerity measures, but on the other hand this will damage Hungarian people directly, not to mention that if we are faced with the effects of the economic crisis, we are faced with what kind of a huge, fundamental economic policy turnaround would be needed, then it is quite clear that a system of self-government should be set up that will bring decision-making and substantive economic policy measures as close as possible to the level of people. So we should strengthen local governments, strengthen cities and districts so that municipalities can respond to these challenges, whether economic challenges or environmental challenges. Unfortunately, you're doing the opposite. In short, this would be my very distressing opinion on your economic policy, which is a pure neoliberal economic policy, a clear continuation of the damage to the MSZP-SZDSZ era, which has caused a crisis. Unfortunately, you have not learned from anything, you are not facing it, but we are giving you the opportunity to at least correct this budget to some extent, as I have already said, we will submit nearly 200 amendments, and I am very confident that some of these will take this budget in a slightly better direction, and on which overall I can say that the LMP faction will vote against because it does not agree with the interests of the Hungarian nation. Thank you.
u2020-06-11-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance asked for the floor. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-06-11-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, made serious findings at the beginning and at the end of his speech. I may not quote it literally, but he said that the government in office since 2010 continued its former neoliberal economic policy, saying that this economic policy has caused great damage and put us in an extremely vulnerable position. I think that if someone followed yesterday's debate or listened to the first comment by Deputy Minister András Tállai today, then in the light of the figures, Mr. Group leader was able to get to know entirely the opposite information about his statement. I do not want to give a long list of economic policy indicators from the period before and after 2010, but if we look at some, I think it is clear that economic policy is different and there are different results. We know that Hungary's management was characterised by a high general government deficit in the budgetary debate before 2010, this is worth mentioning: there were six consecutive years when we had the largest or the second largest government deficit in the EU Member States, as a result of which the public debt was on an ever-increasing path, at a time when the majority of the European Union's countries reduced their public debt. After 2010, either as a result of a fiscal turnaround or as a result of fiscal consolidation, the deficit was kept below the 3% reference level, and the government debt has decreased every year since 2011. Of the EU Member States, as I recall, only Hungary was able to reduce its sovereign debt rate every year. While previously the average EU debt ratio was significantly lower than the Hungarian debt ratio, or reversed: the Hungarian debt ratio was higher than the average EU debt ratio, today the situation is reversed. And why were we able to make this turn? I think basically because we have made radical changes in employment. The second largest increase in activity rates has been achieved in Hungary, while the number of unemployed people has fallen to one of the most significant levels. 840 thousand more people worked before the outbreak of the crisis caused by the current coronal virus epidemic than in 2010. Not only has the number of employees increased, but also wages. The average wage increase in the previous nine years was on average 7 percent per year. I must absolutely argue with the conclusion that economic policy has put us in a vulnerable position. In my view, economic policy has responded from 2010 to the biggest challenges facing us: the financial failure, the extremely bad employment situation, the extremely poor growth potential. We have been able to make changes in these areas, which has greatly reduced our vulnerability to you. Population: 70 percent of the loans were foreign exchange debt, now less than 1 percent. Government debt: not only has it decreased, but external debt has also decreased. Our ability to finance has turned from significant minus to plus, and our net external debt has dropped below 8 per cent from above 50 per cent. I believe that economic policy has responded and must respond to the challenges now, when the greatest challenge is to re-create jobs that have ceased due to a coronal virus epidemic, and to protect most jobs before that. These measures in recent years, wage growth and family policy-building measures have resulted in more people today, thanking God, thinking that it is worth staying home than leaving, and more people have come home in recent years than they have gone. I've got KSH data in front of me. Mr President, Mr Group Leader, he said that Hungary is characterised by emigration. Yes, there are those who leave, go abroad, and thank God, more and more people come back. According to KSH data, in 2019 there were 11,400 people who came home compared to those who went out, so the migration balance was positive. I'd like to ask Mr. Group Leader to check the data of the Central Statistical Office. Mr. Fraction Manager said that poverty has increased. Let's look at the numbers again. By increasing employment, those who used to live on aid are now able to make a living on the wages that represent higher individual income. And if we look at wage developments, the minimum wage has increased enormously over the past period; compared to 2010, the net increase of the minimum wage by 2020 was 77.7 percent, if the employee had no children, but if he had three children, then thanks to the family discount this increase is 160 percent, the minimum wage has increased by more than two and a half times. So it is difficult to interpret when Congressman says that poverty has increased. Territorial breakdown: thanks to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the increase in wages was higher than the national average in counties with a higher share of lower wages. [[10.20]] This is true, for example, of Nógrád, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County or of lower-income counties. Again, I'd like to ask you to look at the facts. If you don't do that, then I think your claim should be withdrawn. As regards the specific points on the budget for 2021: the bill for 2021 indeed presents appropriations in a more aggregated structure, but I would also ask the Member to examine the more detailed explanations submitted to the Parliament, in which he will find exactly how much the government intends to allocate to certain areas of expenditure, such as the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. With regard to scientific life and higher education: here, Mr Group Leader, he said that the budget proposal is an attack on scientific life and that higher education is a loser of the budget proposal. Of course, there could be additional numbers in all areas, there is always a number where one can say one more, but I would still ask that we look at the changes that have been made in the field of higher education in recent years and what the draft budget law for next year contains. If we look carefully at this proposal, we will see that the so-called model-changing higher education institutions, the institutions that are subject to foundation maintenance, are out of the central budgetary sphere, the revenues of these organisations, the financing of these organisations are not fully reflected in the central budget, only the source that the central budget is handing over to these organisations. I can say that higher education students financed in public places will also receive in 2021 the support that the institutions remaining in the public sphere will receive. And I can also tell you that in these model-shifting institutions, teachers will receive a 15% wage increase. Mr President, you do not see this on higher education appropriations, but on the appropriations that cover wage increases. I think that perhaps you did not take this into account, Mr Group Leader, when you looked at the funding items in the area of higher education. And I can also say factually that higher education workers have received wage increases in previous years, and we are working to ensure that wage increases can be made in the coming years, in line with economic growth. As far as road renovation is concerned, and in line with this, the government's policy on villages is concerned: Mr President, he said that the government is pursuing a village-breaking policy. I would like to draw your attention to the programme of the Hungarian village, and the bill before us will provide 90 billion for the continuation of the programme of the Hungarian village, since this year there will be significant resources available within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, and one leg of this program will be the renewal of the roads, and for this purpose HUF 50 billion will be available. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: 450 kilometers!]] Congressman, we are talking about a programme that hasn't happened before. If you say that this economic policy is an integral continuation of previous years, you will not find such an appropriation before 2010. I know exactly how much resources were available for road renovation. There were resources, to a lesser extent, and not targeted in the framework of the Hungarian village programme. Of course, the higher roads must also be built and renovated. If you're going to the country, you can see the road constructions. And if you look at the budget bill of 2021, you will find more than HUF 200 billion, mainly for the construction and renewal of major roads, main roads. I should also mention that EU funds are also available for road renovation or for the development of settlements, and the government has labeled specific resources for the development of settlements in the current EU cycle, in the framework of the EU Regional Development Operational Programme 2014-2020. These resources shall be interpreted above the items I have referred to. And that's going to turn me into funding the local government. I've heard the expression "Bleeding out of the local authorities" many times. Here again, I'm asking you to look at the numbers. If we look a little more remotely at municipal funding, then we know that some HUF 1300 billion debt consolidation has been achieved. We know that from 2013 onwards, a significant restructuring of the municipal funding system took place, with the restructuring of tasks between the municipal level and the state level. Thanks to these changes, debt consolidation, the renewal of the financing system, and an overview of the tasks, the funding of the municipal system has stabilised, and even in recent years the municipal system as a whole has been able to accumulate surpluses. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that, at the end of last year, the government debt stock of the municipalities was HUF 285 billion, and in recent years the municipalities were characterised by stable management. One of the winners of economic growth was the local government sector, while between 2014 and 2019 local industrialisation tax revenues increased by 50%. This was the financial background on the basis of which, now, during the period of protection and in 2021, we ask the municipalities to contribute in proportion to the cost of the protection while maintaining the epidemiological preparedness, in addition to the continuation of the CDC. This is reflected in the amendment of the draft budget law for 2021 and in the bill for 2021. Of course, no one is pleased that there is an unforeseen process, and significant resources must be invested. Please see that significant resources are being invested by central budgetary bodies, government-led bodies, because this year we have looked at the resources that we can transfer to the defence, and we also ask the municipalities to contribute to the defence. And I'm also asking you to look at the benefits of this sacrifice, the results. I ask that we see that these resources are useful, and, on the basis of health statistics, Hungary has been extremely successful in defending itself in comparison with other countries, together with the feeling of sadness for each lost life. But overall, I repeat, this sacrifice, the measures that we have taken, has had results. I hope that the 4.8 percent increase projected in next year's budget can be achieved; I hope that the expansion of jobs will continue in subsequent years; I hope that we can keep economic growth above the EU average after 2021; and if this is the case, then the municipalities will continue to win the government's economic policy in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-22	Thank you very much. We will return to our speeches. Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For the third year now, I've had a few thoughts about the budget coming up. If we look back a little by 2020, the 2020 budget, which we are actually living with now, had three pillars: support for families, retention of the results of the Hungarian economy, further enhancement and security. I think that budget planning provides a very good basis for 2021, and it is only fair to address all budgetary issues if, where appropriate, we put a year in a process. This is particularly true since 2010 because the results of the ten years that have passed, many of which have been confirmed by the former Secretary of State, are a joint result of Hungarian economic policy, Hungarian people and Hungarian governance. Thanks to the economic policy of the last ten years, thanks to the work of the Hungarian people, we have already heard of 4.5 million people working several times before the budget is negotiated; our economic growth is estimated; the unemployment rate was 3.3 per cent instead of the 12 in 2010; almost full employment; government debt fell from 80 per cent to 66 per cent. Even by European standards, good economic development and low public deficits demonstrate that the epidemic has reached a country with good economic conditions. Imagine the encounter between a country that is on the brink of bankruptcy led by left-wing governments and a coronal virus epidemic. A stable, developing economy from which the emergency started can also provide a good basis for exiting the crisis and overcoming the virus's difficulties. It is a strong government intention to create the same number of jobs that the virus has brought to an end. A good direction is to create jobs, protect jobs, support jobs, wage support, credit support, tax reduction, support for businesses. As a representative of an individual area, I can also strengthen this by meeting with entrepreneurs personally, not what our fellow Member said, for example, that there is no credit in banks. [[10.30]] It is very important that the focus is not on aid and jobless income, as the political groups, which did not participate yesterday in the discussion of the most important topic of the session. All this logic makes it possible to preserve jobs, create new ones, and the most important focus is that it gives Hungarian families the opportunity and companies further development and recovery. As a result of the above, the focus of budget No 21 must, of course, be nothing other than the protection of the economy, the re-launch of the economy, while maintaining the epidemiological preparedness. Nevertheless, it is of course important that Hungary continues to be a family-friendly place, so that support for children and families raising children remains fully focused in the 2021 budget and ensures this. Since 2010, the government has increased support for families by two and a half times, one of the highest rates in Europe: 4.5 percent of GDP. Next year, HUF 2295 billion will be available in the budget to support Hungarian families. Dear Parliament, Of course, institutional education of children plays a key role in the lives of families, from daycare through kindergarten to higher education. Budgetary resources for public education, if the system works effectively and efficiently, are always reimbursable investments. Family, public education, talent development are the focus of many common intersections. Here, with a detour, we thank the teachers and families very much for their cooperation during the digital transition. Some of the highlights from the 2021 draft on public education: education spending will be close to HUF 2230 billion next year, which would mean an increase of nearly HUF 784 billion compared to 2010; this is 54 percent in percentage and HUF 80 billion in HUF compared to this year. But if we highlight some of the support for families, which are closely connected to the school world, we can reach further growth and additional amounts: next year, the support for children's meals will continue to increase, with more than HUF 86 billion available in 2021, a 177 percent increase compared to 2010; the system will be fully equipped with free textbooks, which, I think, is also a major help for families. In 2021, the following priority tasks are planned to be carried out in the field of public education. Further development of public education infrastructure; if anyone looks around his individual area, he sees that a significant part of kindergartens, kindergartens and kindergartens through schools, but if we only call public education, a significant part of kindergartens, schools and secondary schools has been renewed. A very important goal is the teacher I., teacher II. and the continuation of the qualifications of master educator, research teacher; the budget fully supports the coverage of this. It is important to continue the qualification of teachers with qualifications or qualifications, directly assisting educational and educational work; to ensure the continuous expansion of the state development of textbooks; to develop musical education; to support preschool education by providing tools, content development; to support the application of school programmes that effectively prevent or manage school abuse; to support language learning of language teachers and secondary school pupils in a foreign language environment; to continue the increase of teaching skills by 10%, of course, and to organise wages for school directors, including incentives. Each item, even in particular, can be found individually in the budget at the increasing rate and the responsibility that this draft budget has for this sector. Next year's budget will provide nearly HUF 1162 billion for the salaries of education workers in kindergarten, general, secondary school and higher education. This means an increase of 43 per cent on average compared to 2010, but imagine a specific example: let's say that a beginner's salary with university education was 130 thousand forints in 2010, with a 78 per cent increase of 231 thousand forints this year. Let's take another example: the wages of a 20-year-old teacher with a university degree were 173 thousand forints in 2010, and this year it is 368 thousand forints a 113-percent salary increase. Obviously, income elements may also contribute to them, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, growth is clearly necessary further step by step, but the rhythm of this, I think, is very noticeable. Dear Parliament, If we interpret public education in a very broad sense, then for this area, proposals, talent programmes, social support, cultural funding, funding of civil society organisations, and I could list the budget chapters that target this age in terms of coherence, either through institutional education or through families, and I think that in this way they will also strengthen the effectiveness of the school. Finally, very briefly, some thoughts about another very important area, culture. It is also a serious consequence of the economic results that, in recent years, I think that Hungary's cultural development is worthy of its sight, content, quality and dynamics, as Hungary spends the most money on culture in Europe in proportion to its GDP. Cultural institutions and community spaces have been renewed in the capital as well as in the county seat, but we can also show a good feeling that cultural life in small towns enriches the people who live there through various programs. In many areas of growing culture, the epidemic situation has come in the midst of outstanding performance, which has posed a very serious challenge and challenge in this area. In the pandemic situation, Hungary's Government was the first to waive the payment of the kata, to release the contribution and, with immediate effect, to transfer one billion forints to the payment of an advance in the cultural sector to artists who were in difficulty due to the epidemic situation. Only a few highlights from the draft budget for 2021. My fellow Members have already told me about the survival of the nation, and therefore the national policy projects that we can enjoy in financing the cultural portfolio are very important. Without the need for completeness, either the Literary caravan, the Art Caravan, the Everyday heroes, the Write History projects serve Hungarian-Hungarian relations, national belongings and the preservation of national values. Cultural developments continue to be decisive; we can be sure that all amounts, all forints, are well used, whether we think of only a few highlights of the program of the Árpád House, or the reconstruction of the Székesfehérvár Szent István Király Museum, including the Millennium Pavilion in Zebegény, the cultural investments of the Debrecen 2030, or the conclusion of the Szigligeti Theatre in Szolnok. The funding of the library, archives, public education and museum area is also included in the proposal. Institutional funding in the field of public culture should be highlighted: House of Tradition, Sándor Csoóri Fund, National Institute of Culture, but there is also a source of funding for artistic ensembles, funding for artistic ensembles, support for cultural, social, civil society organisations, associations and associations, and support for performing arts. So, overall, we can say that the budget also provides the necessary resources for the responsibility of its maintainers and operators in the field of culture, it produces a very rich range of funding, but it also counts on the revenue side of cultural life, of course, and it also expects the support of local communities. Dear House, Overall, in view of the main lines of the 2021 budget, as the Minister said yesterday, Hungary's budget for 2021 is the budget for economic protection, which, while maintaining the epidemiological preparedness, includes the necessary resources to support families raising children, to value pensioners, to create new jobs, and to create new jobs, and every priority area has more resources in 2021. As the Fiscal Council has stated, the budget is credible, reliable, enforceable, and therefore it is seriously intriguing to see what kind of thinking it takes to be called a distressing one, but it has been confirmed this morning that it is credible, reliable, it can be observed that it is determined, courageous, and it gives everyone the opportunity, the responsibility to contribute in this way to the economic and full social effectiveness of 2021 by voting in favour of everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.40]]
u2020-06-11-24	Thank you. We will continue today's work with speeches from our Members. The representative of the Dialogue, Mr Tamás Mellar, is next. Here.
u2020-06-11-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Before I turn to my own speech, I would like to refer back to one of the comments made by my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, who said that the numbers did not lie. I trust you're right about that. He said that the government has launched a historic economic protection and economic recovery package, which is at 20 per cent of GDP over a three-year period. If we compare this 20-percent alleged package with the fact that in the 2020 plan the general government deficit will be 3.8 per cent and 2.7 per cent next year, and if we add that the budget also includes the fact that the investment share will be 28.3 per cent, the consumption of households will be 3.8 per cent, while the increase in net average earnings will be 6.9 per cent, it follows that the other two economic operators, i.e. households and companies, will not be placed in a significant net saving position, which may reveal that the government can only have a package as large as its lack of public finances. So if we stick to the 20 percent stimulus package, it is clear that in these three years there must be more than 6 percent public deficits per year. I will try to put it simply: if our family wants us to spend 20 percent more, then I can take money from my wife's bookie and drain my money for the bills and spend more of it, but then there will be no money left in those areas. I think this is one of the basic aspects of economics. This is considered by macro-Economists as a system of national accounting, i.e. that total net savings at national level should come together from the savings of the three income owners. It is very likely, by the way, that what we have already stated on several occasions is that this 20 percent package is not true, and it is only part of it. In that 20 percent there is grass, wood, flowers, everything that doesn't even belong to it, for example, from bank guarantees to the MNB's preferential loan scheme, which is obviously not an additional resource, because if you take out a loan, of course, it is not a surplus resource. This is also an obvious economic context, because it is either someone's savings, or if money is created, then someone had to take it, and if there is no collateral behind it, it is inflation-like. It is quite simple that this is the only way to do so. But I would like to get to what I think about the budget for 2021. It has been a recurring question for many years, and I am almost ashamed to mention why we are discussing next year's budget now, as there is no important, serious information on this which might be possible if it were not available later, since we have not even completed the year 2019. Data are available for the first quarter of 2020 and no further data are available, and the future is even more uncertain. This year is even stronger, as the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic has brought even greater uncertainty to the whole issue. In this situation, the best course of action would obviously be to have a real, real additional budget at some point, not a parody of what the government has just put forward, which is far from the fact that there has been a change in the macro-track, revenue, expenditure and so on. This is simply a technical amendment and another punishment for the capital. A real additional budget would have been needed sometime in the summer, and it would have been worth it around November because then there is much more to be seen in a budget. But it doesn't bother the government, because there's one thing you're going to be able to do, that the general government deficit should be within 3 percent; it's a magic number for Fidesz. What the cost of this is, how many areas will be blocked, what transfers will be made between addresses, is another question. It is no coincidence that, according to the assessment of Open Budget Survey, which examined how well the budgets of each nation are well-founded, how transparent and how oriented economic operators are, because that would obviously be the objective of the budget, if it were to comply with the 3 percent deficit, then Hungary should not have to draw up a budget from 100 points to 45 points. The average was 71 points, the compliance level would have taken 61 points. Only Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina were ranked behind us. This shows something very strongly. That what we are discussing here will have little to do with what will actually happen next year in the economy. I must be very sad to conclude this, but I am not alone with him, as the Open Budget Survey, a very prestigious international investigation, has also stressed the same. Let's look at the macro-track on which the budget rests. Obviously, the role of the government and the Ministry of Finance is very difficult, because there is a great deal of uncertainty. Just think that for this year, the Hungarian National Bank says that there will be an economic growth of 2-3 percent, the Ministry of Finance says that there will be a decline of minus 3 percent, so the World Bank says that there will be a decline of 5 percent, the Economic Commission of the European Union says that there will be a 7 percent decline, and finally the latest one, the OECD's pessimistic forecast, will be a 10 percent decline in Hungary this year. Under these circumstances, it is really very difficult to guess what level we will start from next January. From the figures you can see from the convergence programme the government and the Ministry of Finance took over the basic figures for the budget, the base path, with which absolutely nothing is wrong that they took over from there, much more so than what the figures themselves say, that it will increase GDP by 4.8 per cent, inflation will be 3 per cent, the share of investment I have already mentioned will be 28.3 per cent, the consumption of households will be impressive, 3.8 per cent. So there are all these positive numbers here. The unemployment rate will be 4.3 percent. God forbid these numbers actually happen, but I'm afraid there's not really a chance. With regard to the government's optimistic macro-trajectory, which it has formulated, it is trying to put forward arguments as to why this very significant optimism is here in the midst of the crisis. One of these arguments is that there will be a W-shaped global economic crisis in their vision, which will result in a very rapid bounce back, and this year it will all come down, and next year there will be a very powerful positive ascent, so the economy will be able to return to the same track that started from the track. [[10.50]] In this connection, however, I think it is very important to mention at least two or three things. One is that now more and more analysts think and say that this is going to be a prolonged crisis, and that the virus epidemic will also have a second and third wave, which will have economic implications. This could, on the one hand, prolong the crisis itself, and obviously an economy such as the Hungarian economy, which is a small, open economy, has a high exposure, depends very much on what is happening in the world economy. The other two things about the same thing are that, at the same time, a lot of people assume that this crisis will also be linked to a shift in technology, which did not actually take place after the 2008 crisis, but only partially. Obviously, one of the elements of this new energy platform is the significant expansion of renewable energies, the significant rise in electric car production, and the third element is that the whole internet itself and online technology related to the Internet have actually become direct production power, and you can now see it. These obviously have a significant impact on the direction in which we are going. And yet there is an important element, and there is also a lesson to be learned from this crisis, that it has become clear that the production chains, the division of labour that have developed over the past decades as a result of globalisation, are vulnerable, and it is therefore expected that these production chains, these production systems, will be re-organized and re-established, which obviously requires time. Otherwise, this has or might have a positive result, if Hungary is able to participate well in this process, then we may as well be a winner. Of course, we should not be low-value suppliers, but rather wink towards the high-tech sectors. The other thing on which the government bases its optimism is that the Hungarian economy is in much better shape today than at the outbreak of the 2008 crisis, and therefore this crisis will be less difficult for the country. It is certainly true that, if we look at the macro numbers, they were much more favourable in March than in 2008, but it does not follow that the Hungarian economy is now a truly competitive, truly high productivity economy, where there are high value added products, but rather it can be seen that this Hungarian economy is a very vulnerable economy, which in recent years has been a success due on the one hand to the fact that, on the other hand, a significant amount of EU funds have been collected continuously, 5-6 percent per year, and then the foreign workers had a significant return on money, which could be up to 2-3 percent of GDP. These factors have helped to ensure that the economy is balanced, and obviously also companies with a majority of foreign ownership, since we should not forget that 80% of our exports are made by companies with a majority of foreign ownership. And the bad news here is that a significant part of this is in the automotive industry, and the automotive industry is one of the big losers of this crisis today, so it is not possible to predict what the future will be today. So I think that this vulnerability is very strong, and this is, by the way, quite visible, because now very quickly the 3,4 per cent unemployment rate has risen above 9 per cent, and the general government deficit has reached 1000 billion. So it is very good to see that this crisis has such a significant impact. Turning to the issue of the general government deficit and debt/GDP ratio, the government continues to stick to the Maastricht criteria. So there's nothing surprising about it. In Maastricht terms, the central budget and the general government deficit will be 2.9 and 2.6 percent. This is obviously in line with the regulations. However, it is a question, and I will come back to that, how appropriate it is to keep this value below 3 per cent here and now. For the debt-to-GDP ratio, the government expects 72,6 percent this year. This is included in the Convergence Programme and by 2021 it will be 69,3, so it will continue to decrease, then it will comply with the principles. However, if you look at the SAO's report on the budget and you look at the fact that there are risks in all of this, you can see that if you take and take the number of GDP according to the pessimistic estimate, the SAO's report, one of the tables there, and in the case of public debt, you also take a pessimistic estimate of its growth, then it follows that the debt/GDP ratio could be up to 75.9 percent in the next year. In other words, this will result in a very significant increase. And let's just think that if there is going to be a significant setback, or if the government is really forced to make a crisis policy where it will actually bring in additional resources, then the cost of this could easily be that the debt-to-GDP ratio would increase. As regards the structure of the budget, several people have already mentioned it briefly, I will also mention that, instead of being more transparent, it is increasingly less and less possible to follow with these two funds: the Economic and Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund. It's still saying it and it's really long and it's hard, and it's really got everything-- grass, wood, flowers, but it's also stuff that doesn't belong together at all. I think that this will be taught at universities later as a veterinary horse that such a budget should not be made, because it is very unclear. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The health care that should have received the most, because there is an epidemic on the one hand, and healthcare has been bled out in the last ten years, there is a nominal increase of 8 percent in the budget, which is in real terms, if we accept 3 percent inflation at the moment, it is still only a 5 percent increase. This is obviously not going to compensate for the additional expenditure that has already been incurred and is expected to arise. And then we didn't talk about the need for some kind of conceptual transformation, and we have been waiting for this conceptual transformation for ten years in terms of health, but this is not happening at all. Similarly, an increase of 3.7 percent in education, which, if inflation is counted again, represents practically 0.7 percent real growth within the margin of error, but here I have heard from my fellow Members and Secretary of State that everything is fine in the areas of education and higher education. [[11.00]] I've looked at the latest university rankings, there's one of these top 500. In the top 500 I found four universities, which are Austrian universities, three that are Czech, two that are Polish, one that is Estonian, one that Lithuania, one that is also from Ukraine, and none of Hungary could be found. So it is certain that you have achieved many, many results in the field of education, especially in the field of higher education. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Not even the CEU?]] And by the way, when I retired, my university teacher's salary was only 20 percent higher than that of a tesco dealer, and I'm just saying that as a footnote, but the results don't show this. I think that one of the very important lessons and very important elements of this budget and of the whole crisis management is that the government has shown how insensitive it is in social terms and how unable it is to take into account the fact that, here and now, it is trying quickly to help people who are in a hopeless situation due to the crisis. That didn't happen. To sum up, I would like to say three points, three things that broadly show what I think of this entire budget for 2021. The first feature of this budget is that it is not countercyclical, so it does not want to address the crisis with significant budgetary expenditure. This can be seen from public deficit data. This is also very bad because it fails to allow the technical, technological renewal that every crisis offers, and it does not seem that it certainly does not want to live with it. The second point is that the subsidies which exist are not allocated in a normative way, not on a normative basis, but rather in a targeted way. The weight of state orders and public investment is very significant in this regard, which, although it can be understood as a crisis management, is only a targeted crisis management, a compensation for the government's kind oligarchs, who have suffered significant losses, as tourism and catering were among them, and there was a very significant setback. And the third point is that what I just referred to is the unheard-of social insensitivity. Losers are not helped, and therefore society is more divided into rich and poor, and the middle class is almost skinny and sinking. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What makes you say that?]] and this will also jeopardise social peace and social stability. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's not true!]] How, to what extent, it will obviously be told by the future, but no doubt this can be seen from the budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-11-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now address the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited, and as Chairman of the Budget Sub-Committee of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, allow T/10710. I should like to state our position on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2021. The opinion of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is set out in the House Rule 36. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Act, it was established at its meeting on 2 June 2020. It is a welcome process that, since the third parliamentary term, there has been increasing support from the central budget of Hungary to the national authorities and the public education and cultural institutions operating in their maintenance. This ensures that nationalities living in Hungary maintain their national identity, their mother tongue, faith and culture. T/10710 on Hungary's central budget for 2021 The Hungarian nationalities have drawn up and submitted their needs on the basis of consensus. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Act and Act CLXXIX of 2011 on the Rights of Nationalities. In addition to the transfer of the right of maintenance, the previous amendments to Act 18 created the possibility for movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the public education institution to be transferred free of charge to the management of the property of the national minority authority carrying out the task for the duration of the public service mission concerned. With these amendments, the operation of the institutional system of nationalities in Hungary has been ensured, which is one of the pillars of our education. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. As a result of the current amendment of the Act to be adopted, which our committee has submitted to Parliament in a long and thorough preparation, the movable and immovable property for the purpose of public education may, free of charge, be owned by the national governments. As a result of this very positive progress, it essentially provides the same status as local authorities for national authorities. Of course, more than one driver's license means more responsibility. It is necessary that national authorities, as owners now, should, as has been the case, maintain or increase the value of these assets, acting with the care of a good host. However, the sources of value-added investments as additional costs would be considered necessary to review and manage them at budgetary level, because without this they could become ineffective, which would mean that they would cease to exist. At the meeting of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, it has already been suggested that it is necessary to find a solution to this in order to make the deadline and method for the use of budgetary support more flexible, so that the institutions maintained by the national authorities can plan with the full allocation available. Furthermore, depreciation and residual carry-over of ownership assets have also occurred for the following budget year, as this would increase the sources of renovation and investment, because these institutions do not have any revenue and could be at risk of operating in the absence of funds. We would like to examine the points raised by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary regarding the provisions of the Public Finances Bill that are not under discussion. From this year onwards, the transfer of funds to support specific projects with a specific accumulation nature to the following years has been a positive decision because it can be seen that there is a more favourable rule for national authorities than for municipalities. We would welcome similar favourable rules in other areas of nationalities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to stress that, in recent years, nationalities in Hungary have become beneficiaries of a significant increase in resources. Thank you to the Government of Hungary for providing nationalities with the resources necessary for their operation this year as well. Here I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his constructive cooperation on the budget. We hope that the Government of Hungary and the Hungarian Parliament will support the resources submitted by the nationalities. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2020-06-11-28	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I now address Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[11.10]]
u2020-06-11-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Opel issued a dividend of HUF 103 billion From Hungary last year, Audi and Mercedes take back 700 billion forints from Hungary and Mercedes take out their total Hungarian profits as dividends, we read recently in the press about the winnings of various multinational companies in Hungary. If you compare this with the wages that nurses, policemen and firefighters work for in Hungary, for example, you can see that only the one-year dividend of Opels, which will be taken out of Hungary, the one-year salary of all Hungarian nurses, the salary of all Hungarian policemen for one-and-a-half years, the salary of all Hungarian firefighters for two and a half years. This money pump, which operates in Hungary, is not only characteristic of these car factories, unfortunately, but also characteristic of the entire multinational sector and highlights the misery of the Hungarian economy and the bondage of Hungarian people. But it is not only the money that leaves Hungary in this form, but unfortunately a lot of labour, a lot of our countrymen have been forced to work abroad in the last decade and a half for reasons of living. Of course, the problem of foreign exchange lending has also contributed to this, which has not been resolved widely. Departure therefore only exacerbates the situation that is Hungary's biggest problem, and, yes, the Mi Hazank Movement confesses and says that the biggest problem of our country is the demographic disaster that has been affecting Hungary for more than forty years without breaking, to varying degrees. It is a matter of fact, and as an opposition representative, it is not worth arguing that the government is really putting emphasis on family politics, but if we look at the effectiveness of this, if we look at the fact that fertility, which best shows the desire of Hungarian families and young Hungarians to have children, has turned out to be a sad picture. In the last four years, the fertility rate has not changed in Hungary, since 2016 the number of children per mother has remained constant, 1.49 on the basis of the annual statistics published by the HCSO. So we can say that we are still very far from the number that would allow Hungary to become a country that is growing again in the population of Hungary, i.e. the fertility ratio of 2.1. If we want to make family policy more effective, which, I think, cannot be a debate between us, to help young Hungarians to live in the Carpathian Basin and to start a family, then, in addition to budgetary expenditure, we also need to review and expand policy measures. First of all, I should mention the kindergarten care fee that we ask the government to abolish, since it was introduced in 2012 by the Orbán government, which paid for the nursery for people and families, which makes it difficult for mothers to return to work, since they can only use this care for a fee. Two areas of family policy are a key issue for the Hungarian future. One of them is to create a professional parenting institution, because more than 20 percent of Hungarian youths say that if they had the financial opportunities, they would only want to live for their family and plan a big family, they would bring their desired children into the world, but they would not be able to do so in the absence of financial opportunities. There are a larger number of young people, 70 percent, according to the survey of the Hungarian Economics Society, who say that they want to work, want to work at work, and want to start a family, but with a large family, mothers do not keep their jobs compatible with their families. It would therefore be important to change the attitude of the government in this regard, as we are still doing well compared to Western Europe in this respect, Hungarian young people are still planning to deliver two or three children, but from this, we can also see from the fertility rate that families are able to take on a child in good times. So, if this change of attitude, which would naturally have financial implications, since the introduction of full-time parenthood, with appropriate guarantees, of course, so that we in no case create an opportunity to have children for a living, there would also be budgetary implications, especially if 20 percent of young people really took this opportunity in the order of magnitude. I also highlighted family policy as the most important area in the budget, because in the long term, if we fail to reverse this demographic trend, then the whole public finances, social security, will be unsustainable, and this is very easy to see. If there are not enough Hungarian children, if there are not enough workers in the future, who will be training the backseat of tax-paying citizens in this country, then very soon, if we look at the Korfa of Hungary, Hungary will, unfortunately, be in need of measures that should be avoided. So, in addition to all financial expenditure and policy measures so far, I ask the government, and I even expect the government to increase the effectiveness of spending on family policy, so that Hungary can once again become a growing country in its population. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-11-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy first. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Earlier, Secretary of State replied to some of the suggestions, and then I pressed the two-minute button, because you mentioned a great variety of data, proving how fantastic things work here, and that Hungary is flooded with unprecedented abundance, wealth and joy. You've been talking about the government debt, that it's fallen to a fantastic degree. It depends on which number we are looking at, Mr State Secretary, because when we look at nominal figures, we have also increased public debt; indeed, it has decreased compared to GDP. Although I would add that for you, however, it is not a party politician, or it has not been, it should be borne in mind that a government debt or a government deficit in times of crisis should be compared to ten years of data not in crisis, but, where appropriate, in a context of economic activity, which is not, at least, elegant, Secretary of State, it is worth choosing other control data. The same is true of the deficit, by the way. He mentioned employment, and he said they did fantastic things here. Indeed, employment has increased, two things are worth adding, one is that it is foreign and public employment. So, in London, a lot of jobs were created earlier, but there is one more I would like to suggest to you. He said that poverty has fallen a lot, but I would recommend to his attention another statistical data, and this is the poverty gap; I think you have heard of it, Mr Secretary of State, this shows the extent of extreme poverty. Here, each survey shows that sociological surveys show that extreme poverty has not decreased in Hungary, and they are even further away... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: reduced from 400,000 to 100,000!]] Deep poverty, Mr State Secretary, has not decreased in Hungary, it is increasingly difficult to catch up, the chances for the poor to catch up are increasingly low, and even the poor have been left out of wage growth. I'm not saying it. It's different studies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And it is also remarkable that the territorial difference is simply negligeed by the government. It is not true that there is also a territorial difference between different social situations in Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-06-11-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varju also asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-33	Mr President, thank you very much, but let us continue this line on what control data I would like to offer to the attention of the Secretary of State, even because according to the convergence programme, external and internal financial indicators are much more favourable than they were before the 2009 crisis. That is what you say, and this is what is written in the convergence programme. Compared to this, the ratio of government debt to GDP was 66 per cent in 2007. How much now? 66 percent, Mr. Secretary of State. [[11.20]] So when you're like this, I'd say you're trying condemning numbers, I think we should talk about actual reality. In essence, if I am trying to approach it from the perspective of the experts, not from a party political point of view, but I am also making statements here in Parliament that take account of experts, it is about the fact that in the 2000s, during those ten years, some EUR 50 billion was used to make this 3.5-4 percent increase work, and this government received roughly the same amount of money as a gift from the European Union in ten years. Now, that's how you've managed to ensure this 3.5-4 percent increase, and that's why I'm saying this is a waste of ten years, because if you look around a little in other countries, otherwise you've made better use of it, and what you've used it for wasn't stolen, but used for the benefit of people: education, health and infrastructure. That's what you should have done. But that's not what they did, and that's why I claim that your economic system has failed, because it only gives the privileged people the opportunity, and it doesn't say anything about the people who are otherwise subject to convergence and these resources, catching up resources. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-11-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will address you to Congressman Gábor Bányai for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! Congressman Varju's angry speech made me say something. He was talking about the wasted time. Dear Congressman, We worked on a project or two at the same time as the county general meeting president, maybe you remember. [[László Varju: I remember!]] Now, there have been lost times when your government was in power, and they have done everything they can to make this country grow from the sources you call a gift, which I do not think is a gift from the European Community. I'll show you with respect where I'm going in the country, the money you claim to have stolen is likely to build schools everywhere, to build kindergartens, nursery schools, to build roads, to build factories, plants, to create a mass of jobs in the country. Now the crisis that has hit us has brought this momentum to a bit of a disadvantage, but I would not underestimate Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian self-governments, by saying this by stealing European Union funds. And we're not talking about a wasted time. Hungary's increase in recent times, after your crisis management, when it was not possible to resolve the crisis... you believe that there was no crisis in the 2008 period. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Yeah, we're out. The majority felt this inwards during that period. [[László Varju:...as he then handled the crisis.]] Yeah, yeah, we know that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It won't hurt, that's what we remember. One thing I ask of you is that you be more realistic with your previous work, and be more realistic with the statements that you spit on us on this side of the horseshoe every day and on our businessmen. With all due respect, the lost time in Hungary's life began mainly in the autumn of 2004, when your Prime Minister appeared on the scene, the country wasted those six years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-11-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We are in the position of grace that at the same time two representatives of the government have asked for the floor: Péter Benő Banai, I suppose, by addressing him as well, and Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. I guess I'll give the floor to Péter Benő Banai first, and then I'll give it to Bence of Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I promise to be brief, but at the same time I believe it is necessary for us to start from the facts when assessing the proposed budget law for 2021. Mr Attila Mesterházy and President László Varju, because the chairman of the Committee on Budgets quoted data from the convergence programme. If you do not believe in the Convergence Programme, please look at the European Commission's public data, Eurostat's public data, on the basis of which we will assess whether economic policy has been successful or not in the past. Government debt was mentioned: in 2002 the debt-to-GDP ratio was 52 per cent; the deficit according to the EU methodology was 3 per cent. Let's look at the levels we reached before the 2009 economic crisis. We all know that there were six consecutive years when we had the largest or the second largest government deficit in the EU Member States. The big problem is that it was in those years and, as a result, public debt increased dramatically in those years when otherwise there was a economic activity in Europe. Let's see what the government debt looked like before the 2009 crisis. The average EU government debt in 2008 is 61,3% in Hungary 71,8. In 2019, in the context of the current coronal virus epidemic, the EU's average public debt is 80.6 percent based on last year's end data, Eurostat data, and 66.3 percent. So while, ten years ago, at the time of the crisis at that time, the Hungarian government debt was substantially higher than the EU average, the situation is now reversed. So let's not just look at the level of public debt, but let's look at the composition of this. Mr President, Congressman, you know exactly that previously the foreign debt ratio was dominated, 53 percent of the government debt in foreign currency, the population who had a foreign currency loan, knows what that means now is about 20 percent. Overall, the foreign financing ratio, as they also finance forint paper, was above 60 percent, and now we are approaching 30 percent. At the annual level of the financing cost, the interest rate service took more than 4 percent of GDP, and now we're about halving these costs. So I think that we can also report on the success of the last ten years in terms of financing public debt. Mr Mesterházy mentioned employment data in addition to government debt figures. Again, I repeat EU statistics, not for the first time: after 2010, the activity rate in Hungary increased by the second largest; the unemployment rate decreased from nearly 12 percent in 2010. Once again, I am looking at Congressman Mesterházy, and he knows that it is perhaps worth looking at the unemployment data before the crisis. Please, in 2008, the unemployment rate was 7.8 per cent, at the end of last year it was 3.3 per cent. The Member says that this could only have happened because there were many people working abroad and there were people in public work. As a Member State of the European Union, there is free movement of workers, but, Congressman, we are looking at this because in recent years, thank God, more people have come home than they have gone, on their own terms. According to KSH data, 11 400 more people came home in 2019 than they left, and the number of people in public work has also decreased in recent years. Of course, we still have a task, and I do not say that there are countries where salaries are higher in Europe than in Hungary, I do not say that we do not have a task to finance public debt yet, but I think that the wage dynamics that have characterised the Hungarian economy in recent years, and those public finances are a source of confidence. I hope that we can deal with the current situation of the coronal virus epidemic, and that the expansion of the Hungarian economy will return to the course that marked the past years from 2021. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-11-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. As I said, it's time for Secretary of State Bence Retvári. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-39	Thank you very much. I, too, would like to contradict with numbers and facts what opposition representatives, Mr Mesterházy and Mr Varju, have said in terms of poverty at the level of speech. I would like to quote to you the numbers you have so much loved in Brussels, Eurostat, which completely disproves what you said, namely that poverty would increase in Hungary over the last ten years, because with government policy, job creation, reduction of taxes on work, it has been able to reduce poverty precisely. There are many dimensions in which this is seen by the institutions you consider to be credible. One is the proportion of people in severe material deprivation. At the end of your governance, it was 23 percent according to Eurostat, now 8.7. The second is the relative income poverty rate, which is the proportion of earners below 60 per cent of the median income, which has also decreased from 14 to 12 per cent. If you look at this without social benefits, there you will find a decrease from 29 percent to 19 percent. Also, according to Eurostat, the proportion of households with very low working intensity, i.e. those who do not work two days in two weeks, decreased from 9.8 per cent to 3.7 per cent. [[11.30]] And here, Congressman Mesterházy has raised the number and proportion of people living in extreme poverty. It is calculated that anyone who is in the intersection of these different poverty dimensions, so who is covered by all three poverty dimensions, lives in extreme poverty. At the end of your administration, the number of these people was around 400,000, now reaching only 100,000. Of course, we'd like it to fall to zero, only the 400,000 is less than 100,000. Fourthly, the number of people living in extreme poverty in Hungary has decreased. At the same time, do not claim that poverty has increased in Hungary. Fortunately, this indicator also decreased in Hungary in this dimension. If you look at households, very briefly: from 27 percent to 17 percent of households without children, from 35 percent to 20 percent of households with children who are at risk of any deprivation, even of any kind. Thank God that even Brussels cannot deny that these indicators are developing positively in Hungary. Whatever the opposition is saying here, unfortunately, they couldn't support it with a single number, not a single fact. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-11-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform Congressman Attila Mesterházy that unfortunately the house rules do not allow him to speak in the same two-minute block. Twelve representatives will take part in the two-minute speeches. We will also move on to the next opposition block. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The focus of the government's budget for 2021 is on the prevention of the epidemic and the re-launch of the economy that has been in difficulty with the coronal virus epidemic. For the government, people's lives and safety are the first, which is confirmed by next year's budget. In the future, we must work to make our country the winner of the changed circumstances, and I am convinced that we will succeed. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian climate and energy strategy is based on the fact that the vast majority of domestic electricity generation should be ensured in the future in a carbon neutral manner through the use of nuclear energy and renewable energy, in particular solar energy. These are mutually supportive solutions, and both can be considered as clean energy sources. Mankind's energy is increasing, so Earth's hydrocarbon sources are rapidly decreasing. The fossil fuels generated over billions of years are expected to be exhausted over decades, while we need to learn about harmful concepts and phenomena such as P10, carbon dioxide, greenhouse effect, acid rain or ozone hole. Ladies and gentlemen, The use of renewable energy sources, such as wind, water and solar energy, is also considered to be serious in the national economy, given the current state of science and technology and its development, there is only limited potential. Renewal of nuclear capacity plays a major role in the greening of energy production, i.e. Paks II. Continue and even expand the use of nuclear energy through a project. Nuclear power plants are cleaner and more economical than conventional fuel plants if they are built on today's largest and affordable safety. From a climate protection point of view, the 500 billion kilowatt electricity produced so far by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant means that if this huge amount of electricity had to be produced in coal power plants, nearly 400 million tonnes of excess carbon dioxide would have been added to the atmosphere. The radical reduction of CO2 emissions is a key issue for the future of Arctic wildlife, and Hungary's nuclear power plant has so far contributed to the prevention of the melting of 1200 square kilometers of Arctic ice. Dear Parliament, The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is of particular importance, since almost half of the domestic gross electricity generation has been available day and night for four decades. It is a key facility for domestic security of supply and the achievement of climate protection objectives, which serves to ensure that cheap electricity is constantly available to the public and industry. The Paks II. Its new blocks will ensure that this remains the case in the future. The budget for 2021 is set at Paks II. it provides an investment source of HUF 115.9 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the government's policy, the Hungarian economy has been able to continue to grow in recent years by keeping our international commitments to cut emissions by 2020, the share of renewable energy sources and energy saving. Hungarian electricity production is currently 60 percent carbon-free, of which 50 percent is due to the production of the nuclear power plant and 10 percent is due to the use of renewable energy. Improving the energy efficiency of residential buildings and households and the deployment of renewable energy systems are of paramount importance for climate protection. This was the goal of the Home Gay program launched by the government. Thanks to the programme, 320,000 households have had energy upgrades, resulting in a reduction in CO2 emissions in Hungary by 140,000 tonnes per year. In view of the future, the government provides a number of sources to create energy-conscious and modern Hungarian homes. The planned energy efficiency obligation system and the associated funding will allow households not to bear the costs of achieving the energy efficiency targets. In this context, priority will be given to disadvantaged households. The aim for the future is to maintain the zero percent credit facility of the Hungarian Development Bank, to equip one million smart meters by 2030, to adjust the heating system and to introduce the billing based on it in some 200,000 remotely heated homes. As a further measure, the green district heating programme will be launched, which will reduce the share of natural gas use in domestic district heat production to 50 per cent, in particular by increasing the use of renewable energy, and the creation of energy communities will begin, where energy consumers and energy producers can organise local renewable energy use on a non-profit basis. In addition to the resources provided for the greening of public transport, Hungary's Government supports the purchase of purely electric cars by up to HUF 2.5 million each. Within the framework of the Hungarian village, the possibility of home creation with the village CSOK also serves to create energy-conscious homes. In 2018 the government quite rightly launched the.Hungarian village programme in order to reverse the process and increase the population retention power of the countryside. Next year's budget will provide HUF 90 billion for the development of small settlements in the framework of the Hungarian village programme and an additional HUF 34.3 billion for the energy and climate modernisation system. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Overall, the draft budget for next year is the long-term environmental sustainability budget, which ensures that the green economy and sustainability aspects are respected while continuing to do everything in its power to protect families and jobs and to restore the economic destruction of the pandemic. Please support the budget submitted to this House for 2021. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-11-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The citizens of Sopron and the Sopron region deserve more than that! After all, let's face it, when the Fidesz government hijacked the local government's vehicle tax revenues, it suddenly hit a 220 million-dollar hole in the Sopron County budget, which the Fidesz mayor suddenly used to cut operating expenses. [[11.40]] Translated: it started to dismiss both the city hall and the institutions maintained by the city, and basically, if we aggregate all the taxes on motor vehicles from all the governments of the country, then we can see the value of this choice on Fidesz's part. I, as a citizen of Sopron poncichter and the chairman of the EPP's Jobik constituency, must state that, on the other hand, our budgetary and state-organization principles have not been functioning according to the principles that Fidesz has been leading for ten years now towards the communist council system. Sadly, for my life, I remember this time well, where, in practice, the ordinary counsel became almost such a flow-through system. Of course, they have been struggling a little bit since October 13th about what happens if the mayor is not the representative of the only party, but this basic principle cannot be agreed, since the municipalities elected by the community of local citizens and their leaders know much better where the taxes collected on the ground would be really good. When I finished the mayors of my constituency and heard clearly from Fidesz, a non-fidesz, that the distribution of EU funds is not optimal either, since the same framework applies to a region with a higher proportion of the population with extreme poverty, such as Borsodra, as we say, the relatively generally considered developed region in Sopron, then we think that it is not an appropriate way to allocate EU funds if the same conditions apply to all municipalities. I mean, let's face it, obviously, there is a very big difference between settlements, even in an average region such as the Sopron region, and there is a settlement where when I asked the mayor when the road was last renovated, I said out of sight that 1975, then he said that Jesus Mary, Mr Brenner, how do you know that, of course, I am talking about a complete renovation. It is not by accident that I have put forward budgetary amendments to the budget specifically for these matters. We will return the abstract vehicle revenue to Sopron, return it to Fertőszentmiklós, Fertőd, Lövő and the other settlements, because it is a city of Fertőszentmiklós with an apparent magnitude of HUF 15 million, 13 million to Fertöd, 7.5 million to Shooter, and I could count it. Indeed, it is a fundamental question of how much of the taxes collected locally should be centralized and then allocated back, since let's face it, in effect, we are talking about redeployment here, and this is a foundation of national organisation and budget philosophy. We as a civil party can only support the community of local citizens in this matter as well. I have also made very concrete proposals in the budget amendment, for example, in order to say that in Sopron there should be a parking lot next to the Ikva Store, because at present it is so if it rains more, then the parking lot loses its parking character and takes on such a boating pond. Obviously, I hope that my fellow Member, Mr Attila Barcza, will support this as well as my proposal for a budget amendment to Sopron's garage lines. As is well known, according to KSH data, the population of Sopron has fallen from 60,000 to 58 thousand, while water consumption is estimated to lead to at least 120,000 people living in Sopron because of internal migration, against which we would respond to our plan to catch up on wages and to develop small and medium-sized enterprises in EU funds, since everyone should be able to thrive in their own homeland, and this should also apply to people living in the eastern or less developed regions of the country, who now, sometimes leaving their families, sometimes in inhuman circumstances, come to Sopron to work in Austria. This is unsustainable for both the Sopronians and for our fellow countrymen who have been forced into such living conditions from other, more unfortunate regions, in our opinion. Ceterum censeo: Sopron and the citizens of the Sopron region deserve more than that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-11-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr István Simicskó, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. We know that the budget is always a kind of creed, a sense of value. It is very simple in the language of numbers that you can express what is important to a government, because the numbers confirm all of this, which is why I say this every year when there is a budget issue. Let me begin, however, by thanking the Ministry of Finance for its work, especially the work of Minister of State Banai, because as a former minister, I know exactly what it means to put together a budget: to assess the needs of all sectors, and to put together and plan the future in the face of a pandemic on the ground of reality. I see, running through the draft budget before us, that it certainly offers a sound and safe, predictable future for all sectors, there is no sector that can bear losses in a material sense. I can see that there is growth almost everywhere, it is a huge achievement, I add. I pointed out that it is always difficult to put a budget together properly for everyone, but it is particularly difficult in such a situation, since more than a hundred years ago, in 1918, there was the last pandemic caused by the Spanish flu, that is what mankind called it. We were faced with a sudden and rapid epidemic of very serious devastation. So, to establish and plan financially, while maintaining epidemiological security measures, I think it is certainly an outstanding job, as the experts of the Ministry of Finance, under the guidance of the Secretary of State, have obviously done so under the guidance of the Minister. So I want you to thank me for that, and I want you to hand it over to all the employees at the Treasury Department who have really done a lot of work for you. What I would like to say is that there was no clear way around the impact of the epidemic, and the processes from which they had to be analyzed, so that they could plan a financial budget responsibly. The focus is on protecting the economy, which is why this budget is also a budget for protecting the economy, as it also serves to protect jobs, protect and grow families, and I will talk about guaranteeing security later. We also see a significant increase in the budget of the armed and police bodies, as security is a prerequisite and a prerequisite for everything, so this is something that the government devotes very serious resources to in the draft. Protecting and relaunching the economy is a very important task, because if there is no economic growth, the resources are also scarcer, so the economy is the engine of a country's development and maintenance of our standard of living. The aim is to restore the outstanding economic growth at European level, because in recent years, over the past ten years, we have seen that Hungary has been in a very difficult economic situation since 2010 after the end of an economic crisis in 2007-2008, and from here it has started economic growth in an incredibly fast and conscious way, thanks to Hungarian economic policy, and this could have meant growth for everyone who wanted to work. It is therefore a fundamental goal to restore economic growth. This is obviously the main purpose of the Economic Protection Fund, which is a significant amount, since 2550 billion HUF will be available for this purpose. In addition, let me take a personal example, although my fellow Member Gábor Bányai referred to it here in part recently. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under his aegis, there is a very serious competitive support programme. I've been to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs three times for the invitation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which means that three newbuda companies have applied successfully. This means not only keeping jobs for them, but also making ambitious plans for development, setting up from the crisis, increasing entrepreneurial skills and job creation. So hundreds of jobs have been saved and even increased, thanks to this support, through government resources. [[11.50]] So I believe that it is exemplary for all actors that, when we are in crisis, we are living in danger, even when Hungarian people are in the mood to do business, to step out, to go beyond them, to develop, to expand, not to give up the fight. It is very important that the government clearly creates opportunities for Hungarian entrepreneurs or companies and for everyone who creates Hungarian jobs. I think that in itself is a huge, serious task that the government is doing right now. Let me say only a few sentences about the protection of families, because for the Christian Democratic People's Party, for all members of the group, the protection of families is of paramount importance, since KDNP is specifically fighting for families and also works for Hungarian families. In the budget, HUF 2295 billion is available to continue, among other things, the programmes that have already been launched by the government, the baby shower program, support for home creation, and a long list of family support measures in recent years. This gives sufficient assurance that a predictable future can be expected for families, at least in this sense. I was partly concerned with the protection of jobs. It is very, very important that the government also places emphasis on this, and there is considerable resources available for this in the budget. Allow me to turn to another aspect of the defence, the budget of public bodies set up to guarantee security in the strict sense of the word, and this is obviously a matter of defence and defence. Defence is a national matter, we all know that. It is important that we have a powerful Hungarian Defense. In recent years, we have taken serious steps to plan the Zrínyi defence and military development programme, which outlines a 10-year period, and we have been aiming until 2026 at achieving a military headcount of 30 thousand, an actual army population and a reserve of 20,000. The wallet is going very well in this development program to achieve this. The number of reserve personnel has also increased significantly, as in 2010, we could now list them by name, but given the shortness of time, I will not do so now, but once I write a book, I will put this in, and now the number of reserve personnel is 9300. And they may allow me to do this: Minister of State Banai is also a member of the Hungarian reserve staff, and we are very proud that such an important financial expert, an administrative expert, will also undertake such service in the noble case of the protection of the country. I would also recommend to everyone among my fellow Members that those who can do so physically and spiritually should do so, and that they do so, and in their surroundings proclaim the verb of the. What we can say with the numbers: the defence budget will amount to HUF 788 billion next year. I have to say, it has a historical scale, since it was a significant budget this year, HUF 616 billion, this is a significant increase, practically triples the volume of the budget in the defence chapter compared to 2010. This is a significant increase, we spend three times as much on defence and defence as our ancestors did. There are many elements to this. I have to say that, on the one hand, we have a NATO commitment, which is that by 2024 we will use 2 percent of GDP, so we will use 2 percent of gross domestic product for protection, which is also an important decision in NATO, and all the Member States have agreed to do so, and we have also undertaken it. We are moving forward on a regular basis, with annual increases in GDP-related levels. Now this is roughly 1.7 percent, if we are to say it accurately, 1.66%, so 1.66% of GDP is now being used for protection in our budget next year. This is a huge thing, and I trust that we can fulfill our commitment in this way and reach 2 percent by 2024. More importantly, the internal structure and internal proportions of the budget. In NATO member countries, we have often used in budgeting that 40 percent of the budget is spent on expenditure and salaries, 30 percent for development and 30 percent for operation. The 30 per cent development rate means that, indeed, military technology, which meets the challenges of the age, is crucially available at this scale. What I see is that there really is a great deal of emphasis on development, procurement, this is an important thing, because since the start of the regime change, there has not been much of an acquisition of new assets, except for the Gripen acquisition that we decided on during the first Orbán government period, but there is a need for new instruments, there is a need for the XXI. To recognize the forms of warfare of the century and to create the capabilities to guarantee or guarantee the security of Hungarian citizens as effectively as possible. What I would add is that in addition to procurement and development, it is very important that the role of the soldier, man, remains significant. Perhaps as a Christian Democrat politician, I can say that this is the most important. So development and procurement are important, because they are also about people, but the most important thing is the appreciation of military personnel, human resources are the greatest asset, and this is also the case for multinational companies, but it must also be the case for public organizations and defence. There is sufficient ammunition, there is sufficient resources to continue the salary increases I trust in him and to honor the soldiers in a financial sense. In addition to this appreciation, I will give you some data on how the salaries have increased in recent years, I would just like to give you a few examples, and I do not want to provide a long source for the development of the Military National Security Service, I see this, HUF 32 billion, this is also a historic amount, never before, at least I don't remember since my existence that this amount was available. The State Health Center, so the operation and maintenance of the Honvéd Hospital, has 47 billion planned, which is also a huge amount of money, but let's not forget that over two million patients are provided by excellent doctors and nurses each year between the walls of the hospital. The Defense Sports Federation, which I could say is the center of my heart, I could say that I was there at birth, I initiated it myself as a minister, it is very important that this organization, this public body, can also do the work that it started in the defense education, in the patriotic education. These are sufficient guarantees that we can also do this work. There is also available resources for the development and expansion of military secondary schools. The Kratochvil High School receives 400 million HUF and, if you like, I can also say positive things about the presentation and the draft. The public foundation implementing the law on war care also receives 17 billion forints, this is a huge thing, an important gesture. Allow me to briefly say a few words about the evolution of salaries. Obviously, this is a process, because as the world and the economy change, there are obviously new opportunities and there must be changes to the needs of the labour market, as wages in a period of economic growth are, in principle, rising in private companies as well. In 2010, a non-graduating soldier belonging to a crew member earned a gross HUF 106,000, that's all he got. This is 255 thousand forints in 2020. This shows an increase of 141 percent. This is a significant increase. If you have a graduation, you will receive a gross HUF 300,000. In 2010 he received HUF 155 thousand gross, which in 2020 was HUF 348 thousand. The salary of an officer, a starting officer, was 204 thousand forints in 2010, now 413 thousand forints in 2020. Now, I'm not saying that this is against banker's salary, but I'm sure it shows the government's ambition to appreciate the soldiers, to keep the soldiers on the military field. And now the Hungarian Defence Office is also involved in job creation, and this is also included in the budget. A new category has been introduced, the special voluntary reserve military service, where they can give HUF 161 thousand gross, let's say, to a young man who has lost his job, but who is interested in the military career and who has a reserve service, or anyone who can fit into the age group. Finally, let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that, in summing up, we really have a budget for protection, for protecting the economy, for protecting jobs, for protecting families, and therefore the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of the budget, and I would like to ask my fellow Members to support it in the vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-46	Thank you very much. The next speaker, announced by the MSZP Group, is Mr István Ujhelyi of the European Parliament, who is speaking from this platform. There you go. You have the floor. [[12.00]]
u2020-06-11-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As a member of the European Parliament, I can speak here in front of you at the House of the Hungarian Parliament, which is why I thank you for the opportunity for the faction of the MSZP to invite me to comment on the Hungarian budget for the following year as a Member of the European Parliament. As a patriot and proud Hungarian, I made a vow last year, following the European Parliament elections, to represent Hungarian interests in front of the institutions of the European Union and to bring European values here, to represent the decision-making levels of Hungarian politics. I would like to comply with this in the next few minutes, even if you may not like it, I mean that I do not necessarily consider the power building logic and interests of the Orbán government to be the same with the generally acceptable and applicable Hungarian, domestic and national interests. We're talking about the budget in the next few minutes. Yes, preparing, accepting and then implementing a budget is a difficult and complicated thing, which we all know, especially those municipal leaders who are holding their heads now, what will happen to their municipal services in the coming years. The task is clear to me: the protection of human life and the protection of human livelihoods. Not even in the end, but in the middle of a crisis that we all experience in the world, there can be no other task for the Hungarian Parliament or any political decision-making body than to keep these two in mind. The protection of human life and the protection of human livelihoods have failed to keep this in mind in the next budget, in this draft. You have brought the budget of desertion to the Hungarian Parliament. Because they abandon not only the local governments, but also the Hungarian people. They let down those who live on wages and salaries and either lost their jobs or lost their income, but they cannot touch anything else at these moments because they have no reserves. They, yes, expect you, the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian government, to be able to thrive, survive, and make a living. But you also abandon small and medium-sized enterprises, those who do not have capital or a link to the NER world, so that they can gain capital, so that they can employ, that they can operate. You also let parents who have children down, whatever they say about this budget. It's a nice word, for billions of dollars, you can obviously write on huge posters that the budget of families and support for families, but we all know that it's just about supporting the families of a small elite, the majority of those who raise children, feed them, educate them or worry about their future, they won't live out their current measures or the next year's budget if they have to live through it. That's the bail-out budget. We, the MSZP, have presented a budget for reconstruction, and I would like to link to this, with the budgetary expectations of reconstruction, with my European Parliament representatives wearing my glasses, seeing the resources available and the dangers that we face when preparing the next seven-year European budget plan, to which we should in some way give a more coordinated and coherent response than what you are doing in your relations with the Brussels institutions. But then let me look back in a few minutes at what has happened in the last few weeks, because I have followed, obviously followed the comments that can be read in the press releases of the Hungarian Parliament or even in the pro-government press releases about the relationship between the European Union and Hungary. It's a good thing you didn't get the roof of this Chamber. [[Gábor Bányai: A humble man! Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] So that he can piss you off, that when you hear the truth, I'm always surprised. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: One more song has not been spoken!]] We were just saying that I couldn't tell you the truth about it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Only to Louis! The only one who made it was Louis the Korózs!]] what we owe to the European Union; we have failed to represent what is in the Hungarian interest, so that we can make the best possible cooperation and deal with our European federal system, so that we can bring home the most European resources and support for Hungarian families, for the benefit of Hungarian society. You have lied about everything the European Union has given the Hungarian Government in recent years to fund protection. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We had to destroy the masks!]] Only I have listed 12 different instruments in recent months, tools that the European Union has opened, including the last euro cent from our joint budget in Europe, so that the Hungarian government and, of course, the other governments use these possibilities in defence. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: All masks had to be destroyed!]] Mr Secretary of State, here about three and a half meters from me, or perhaps not even that much, you constantly yell at me, but obviously you know that the gigantic wallet of which you are one of the State Secretary has quite a lot of European resources and resources at your disposal to tell you what the government is doing in Hungary to glorify itself. Let me remind you that, in recent months alone, the European Union has opened up some 42 billion euros, which is a huge number, almost 15 000 billion forints in scale, if I count correctly, but Tamás Melár can give you an accurate amount within moments, with an order of 15 000 billion forints and opportunities for Hungarian and other governments to use EU funds. And no, these are not yet the European resources to be recovered, they are programmes that have been opened from the various funds so that you can use this so that we Hungarians can survive this crisis. And I'm sure you'll be able to confirm that EUR 540 billion is definitely not going to be multiplied by 350, 360, 370, 380 or just where the euro/forint exchange rate is going. [[Gábor Bányai: 340!]] a huge amount, which, on the other hand, can be used on much more favourable terms for a joint loan from the European Union, as do you, by the way, either with your Paks loan from the Russians or with your railway credit from China, or with your proudly announced bond issue in foreign currency, in euro, which Hungary has had at its disposal in recent weeks. The European Union has provided us with quick money and support for our livelihoods in a cheaper, easier and better way. But then let us continue with what the European Union is doing now, after the flood of lies over the last few weeks and months. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: So, what's the truth? Let's hear the truth.]] In recent days, the European Union has presented a major reconstruction plan that I was particularly pleased that this rhymes with the name of the draft budget for the MSZP [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: For austerity?]] , which, contrary to the Hungarian government's hit-and-run budget, serves the resources and resources it gives to the Hungarian government over the next three years, including other governments, Hungarian farmers and farmers of other nations, to rebuild the European Union. This is a EUR 750 billion programme of the order of which Hungary and then I will convert to HUF 2800 billion in non-refundable funding, HUF 2800 billion, and, moreover, almost free of charge, HUF 2400 billion in reimbursable loans that we want or do not want, we will decide to take on, but provide us with better terms than the government can otherwise obtain from the markets. [[12.10]] This is nothing but the possibility of reconstruction in Europe for the next year or two, and every Hungarian citizen should remember when he proudly sees one minister announces what economic protection programmes have been launched, what social support has been financed, that they are largely given to us by the European Union. You guys are walking around a little bit, and we're going out with you guys like in Brian's life in the famous scene, when the actors of Monty Python, the writers of humor, say that hair, what we owe these Romans, this, and that, and that, and that, and that... And then they look at each other, and they keep finding out that, well, these ugly Romans are trying to kill us. Then someone will note in the end that, yeah, and that we owe the peace to them. That is how you are, and that is how we are with the European Union. This is why the MSZP has prepared the seven-point proposal that we would like to formally submit to the Hungarian Parliament. This seven-point proposal is worth 7,000 billion forints, as we do not know the end yet, but it is the programme of 7,000 billion forints of the next seven-year budget. While you are constantly denying EU funds while you are at war with the EU institutions, the agreement on the EU budget for the next seven years is being reached in the European Union institutions. Yes, it provides the basis for almost all Hungarian, Hungarian, domestic investments and development. As has been said in the previous debate, several people have said here that most of Hungary's GDP, the proudly presented economic development, has been due to EU development aid over the past long years, whether you deny it or not. But let's see what's happening right now. Two consultations are held in parallel. Everyone in Hungary knows about one of them, since you are sorry for more than a thousand billion forints, I was wrong, I have to admit, obviously less, but they will tell me how much they spend on the consultation. [[Intercoms.]] Again, I was wrong. I'm sorry. A thousand billion, no, but a thousand billion forints. [[Intercoms.]] But if there will be a debate on this, we would be happy to hear how much they will spend on their national consultation; I would ask the Secretary of State to say so. I don't think you know, and neither do we. I'm sure I've made a mistake. I'm sorry. I'll get you an exact number. But the fact is that, instead of sending masks in envelopes three months ago to each Hungarian mailbox, you are now spending amazing money on a lying national consultation. This consultation does not go any further, and yesterday the Commission officially indicated that there are issues that do not cover reality, which can also be regarded as Fake news. Compared to this, you spend the money on this and deny it, lie about the other consultation that the European institutions have launched in order to ask the Hungarian people about what they want to spend the next seven years' European Union budget on. The MSZP has collected seven points on what we would like Hungary to translate the seven-year EU development cycle of HUF 7000 billion into Hungary. 1. The focus must be on man. This means that the greatest share of this EU development programme should be spent on job creation, job protection, pay gap between women and men, decent minimum wages, decent jobs, fair working conditions, social protection, fair ageing income, flexible employment and any other type of employment. I'm sure you'll agree with that. You're welcome to come if that's not the case. But there's no argument between us. Then the question is that this is what the Union is planning to spend its money on. 2. Health should be a priority area for the European Union and the Hungarian Government for the next seven years. Yes, it has been achieved, and I am proud to say that I have something to do with this as a Hungarian MEP, because I am one of the authors and supporters of the programme which envisages a stronger European health coordination and a greater European budget to improve the quality of the European health service. This, simplified and translated, sounds like that in Budapest, in Kübekháza, Berettyóújfalu, there must be the same minimum and European standardized healthcare service for all citizens as, say, a Polish, a German or a Roman citizen. The minimum standards that each government must be able to provide to its citizens from either EU or domestic sources. I look forward to the Hungarian Government joining this programme, and I look forward to the accession of representatives of the Hungarian Government, Mr Rétvári's Secretary of State, to this programme in the Council. It is in our common interest that the European Union devotes much more to all health-related measures. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They didn't give me a penny for the super hospital!]] 3. Focus on the future generation. Youth is one of the great losers of the crisis. Many people have lost their jobs, youth unemployment is skyrocketing throughout Europe. This also means, as we see the state of the education system at home, that much more is needed for the health, education and job creation of the future generation. 4. It's the green light. Yes, the MSZP supports and we expect the Hungarian Government to support the European Union's new growth strategy, the European Green Agreement and the change of the EU's digital and industrial strategy in the coming years. I do not know the Hungarian government's position in this area, but I hope that you will also support the participation of Hungary in the European Union's joint programmes, either in the wave of building modernisation, in the significant increase of clean hydrogen or in renewable energies, in the creation of clean transport, in the production of sustainable food. 5. Direct resources to the municipalities! I must point out that, as many people have stressed in this debate today and yesterday, it is simply amazing how you punish the local government, it is amazing how you tighten up and detract from the budgetary possibilities of the municipalities. Compared to this, we are now working not on the basis of the funds so far, but on the basis of new resources, the European Union should launch a number of applications that Hungarian governments can also use from the European Union, with Fidesz-led and opposition-led municipalities. We're on the right track. For health development, regional transport, educational or environmental programmes, social housing programmes, the European Union will launch the new funds that you consider treason to be our initiative, just because it is not the Prime Minister and his narrow environment that will decide who and how much resources you can get. [[12.20]] 6. Court of Justice criteria! Yes, this will be the biggest debate between us, obviously, because we want to bring European Union funds to Hungary without being brought home by your oligarchs. We want every Hungarian business, a baker, to establish its new bakery, an educational enterprise to create its digital background, but an industrial park investment in Szeged or any other city should not be damaged because the Orbán government is at war with the rule of law, democracy, using money. We are initiating countries to have access to it, to clarify that governments of countries that join the European Public Prosecutor's Office are free to decide on the use of EU funds, and are willing to agree to have someone over Péter Polt who can open an investigation into the use of EU funds, to say whether or not spending a euro cent in the European Union was regular in Hungary. But here comes the second half of the sentence: I initiated last year's debate in the European Parliament to find a way to ensure that the government that otherwise does not comply with the rules should be punished, but that the population, voters, municipalities, businesses, civil society organisations and beneficiaries should have access to their resources. There is such a solution on the table. I know that's why they're gonna turn you in from morning to night in their footage, but let's get this straight. To get those who want to develop, create programs, a future from this source, or is it in the interests of the country that only Viktor Orbán and his narrow circle can decide on the billions of European Unions? I think it's the first one. That is what we represent, and that is what we have proposed. We will support this in the European Parliament. Last point, Number 7, in this, I very much hope that we can agree: we must protect cohesion and agricultural subsidies. I said in several debates that the Hungarian interest, regardless of where anyone is sitting in this horseshoe, that in the next seven-year budget we can bring home every single euro cent, both in terms of agricultural subsidies and in terms of cohesion resources. The size of European resources cannot be reduced, just because the Hungarian government has chosen sword ringing and continuing war with Brussels instead of negotiating! Yes, you have made Hungary's position worse in recent years when negotiations are taking place on the budget for the next seven years. But then I'll give you my hand here, so let's decide that in the next period, in the next one or two months, by the time you get the next seven years of budget planning, we have a common strategy to finally not stab our European allies in the back, but to sit down at a table with them and agree on the interests of Hungary. As an MEP with MSZP, I am ready to do this, and despite your reply that he is a traitor, he will not be able to make any more euro cents for the development of Hungary. It is in our interest to agree with Brussels, whether with regard to agricultural subsidies or with regard to cohesion funds, but this will require you to do something different in the next period. I am not naive, I know that they will not change, but in this House it is my job to say that, serving the Hungarian country, I would like there to be cooperation on the acquisition of European resources. That is what our seven points are about, and I ask you not to deny it and not to lie about the consultation launched by the European Commission. This consultation is about how all Hungarian civil society organisations, local governments and employers can tell us what they would do with this HUF 7000 billion. For you, who will make the final decision on cooperation with Brussels, I think it would be worth asking the Hungarian population about this. That is what we are doing now, and that is what we are proposing. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-11-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the technical service that they will be able to draw these 24 minutes 4 seconds from the time frame of the MSZP, because Congressman spoke to the time frame of the MSZP and to give it back to the independent Members, because he is not an independent Member. I now give the representatives of the government the opportunity to speak in the order in which they apply. First up is Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-49	Thank you very much. I would just like to react very briefly to what Mr Ujhelyi said here. He meant Brian's life, but let me have my Orwell memories when you said that the consultation launched by the Hungarian government was wrong, the consultation launched by Brussels is good. So if something is started from there, this is the four-foot good, two-foot bad, based on this logic the consultation in Brussels is good, the Hungarian consultation is wrong, it reminds me of this. And in general, his speech was about giving up all sovereignty. The Hungarian government should resign from the part of sovereignty that it has a say in decisions relating to public funds, that it should be handed over to Brussels organisations, that the Hungarian State should resign from having a criminal authority in Hungary, that it should pass on its own criminal rights to international organisations, that it was all about the fact that we Hungarians were not able to carry our own affairs, that is why we should hand it over to international organisations, that we should reduce our sovereignty. Sometimes the Commission's proposals or sources of money, sometimes with reference to the IMF, have done so many times over the past period. There were few specifics among his suggestions. One particular point was that they wanted the municipalities to receive funds directly from Brussels. Honourable Congressman, Who planned the EU budget cycle 2007-2013? You. Have you had the opportunity, in full, for an entire EU cycle, to receive funds directly from local authorities? They would have had their chance. Did they do it? They didn't. Why didn't they? They were in the government, they were even a stable majority of governments at the time, and you were able to define a whole EU cycle. Why didn't you take what you're demanding when you were on the wheel? Why is that? Is it not possible that this is because you are actually using any of the tools and you have spoken out here for half a sentence in order for Hungary to have fewer EU funds? Honourable Congressman, There's nothing to do with this. It's just political motivation. It has nothing to do with local government or anything else. You just want to attack the government, and now you want to use a tool that, when you had the opportunity in 2007, you didn't think about creating that construction. Now that they're in opposition here in Parliament and have other political motivations, they're going to tell us right now. You mentioned the help in Brussels, and I would like to inform you of the quotes I have received from Brussels in the area of health. You know, you could claim protective equipment from central sources, Hungary required 250 thousand masks of this, you know that Hungary acquired masks in the order of tens of millions, we applied to 250 thousand, this would have been the result of Hungary's 250 thousand masks, of which 54 thousand were delivered, and then Hungary had to completely destroy it, because it turned out that the quality was inadequate. So we got help that wasn't really good for anything. And with regard to Brussels resources: how is it, honourable Member, that the health, Brussels resources, a penny, a euro cent for building the super hospital in Budapest are not available, but, by the way, the direct Brussels source has come to Budapest to renovate and expand the building of the CEU? We did not receive a health resource because they said that Budapest was too advanced for EU funding, that EU funds could not be used to build the super hospital in Budapest, no matter how beautiful you say about Brussels' health resources, but that, no, you could receive direct support from another EU source for CEU's building? Budapest was not very advanced to manage the development of the Soros university from this source. So much for how worthwhile it is to rely on ourselves and how well it is worth referring to large international cooperation or foreign support. It is naive for anyone to think that any other European Union country has a better view of our interests than we do and can stand up better for Hungarian interests than we do. Obviously, they stand up for their national interests, and only Hungarians can stand up for Hungary, and therefore the conflict must be taken. Sorry, I was a little longer than I planned. It is important for the next year's budget that, although it is a post-pest economic recovery budget, there is also a surplus in the next year's budget in all areas belonging to the EMMI, i.e. social and welfare. Thus, in the field of education there is a HUF 78 billion surplus, which means that in ten years, it will increase more than one and a half times what we can translate into educational lines. The increase in health care is even higher, with HUF 156 billion more coming to health next year. That's a 77 percent increase in ten years. In other governments, we have found that in times of crisis, health care is being squeezed, visits, hospital daily allowances are being introduced, salaries are being reduced, and here we are talking about a surplus of HUF 156 billion. In the area of pensions, there is a surplus of HUF 326 billion in next year's budget. This also covers the reconstruction of the pension premium and the 13th month pension. [[12.30]] For the expansion of cultural activities, there is a surplus of HUF 26 billion, which is a 174% increase in ten years. There is also a surplus of HUF 41 billion for social and welfare expenditure, which is a 139 percent increase over a decade. Despite the crisis, therefore, there are additional resources in all areas, the safety of Hungarian families, social security and the preservation of health can be ensured from more resources. It has also been typical in recent times that when it was a time of crisis, we have rarely been able to talk about wage increases. Whether in other Western European countries or in Hungary, crisis management was equal to austerity and reduction of salaries under left-wing governments. On the other hand, this year we are not talking about a reduction in salaries in Hungary, although there is a crisis, only in some municipalities with left-wing leadership, but also in wage increases. In the cultural sector, there is a 6 percent increase in wages in parallel to the change of legal relationship this year. [[Péter Ungár: How many in nominal terms?]] From July 1st, teachers can expect a 10% wage increase. In the social sector, there has been a 14 per cent wage increase since 1 January. [[Péter Ungár: How much is that nominally?]] In the case of health professionals and nurses, a 14 percent increase has already been made at the beginning of the year, and a further 20 percent increase will be made in salaries in the second half of the year and in November, and in this cycle, a 74 percent increase in wages for nurses overall. So in Hungary, we are not dealing with the crisis with austerity, not with a reduction in salaries, but on the contrary: with the gradual reintegration of the 13th month pension and with wage increases in many sectors, such as culture, health professionals, social care and education. We believe that this is how we can better protect the safety of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, and thus contribute to the re-launch of the economy. In addition, let me draw your attention to a special increase in wages for school directors. Here we can talk about 6,000 heads of institutions, and if I look at the deputies, the heads of the institution and the heads of the institutional units, we can talk about another 9,000 people, because it is a very important task for them as well. A school principal should be responsible for the operation of a whole school, choosing good teachers, encouraging them to perform as well as possible. This is why it is important that not only the 10% general teacher wage increase is made, but there is an additional bonus increase for school principals, on average we can say that there is a 50 per cent bonus increase. In the past, the minimum of the school principal's allowances was 84 thousand forints, this was 126 thousand forints, and the maximum was 168 thousand forints, which will be 358 thousand forints from July, so a noticeable increase. If someone has a university degree with 25 years of practice, his salary in grade I may rise to HUF 715,000 and HUF 812,000 as a master educator. In the case of deputy directors and member institution managers, half of this increase is also achieved, so we want to estimate their work, and as an additional incentive, they also have a further incentive of more than HUF 100 thousand. In times of crisis, therefore, we are not reducing wages, but increasing the responsibility of school directors for managing a school, which is also very important for preparing the next generation, and we are also trying to reward it with an extra increase. We rely on the Hungarian people, we believe in the performance of the Hungarian people, not in the far-reaching promises that Mr Ujhelyi said, but in concrete terms, we can ensure these surpluses from the performance of Hungarian people, from the payment of Hungarian people, from the payments of Hungarian companies. And they actually arrive, not like the account we opened for anti-viral aid from Brussels, and it contains a very round, zero-forint amount. Fortunately, the Hungarian economy has been in a position to bear these costs in relation to the protection of the virus before 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-11-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to respond to Mr István Ujhelyi's comment and, if I may, I would like to start by saying what I agreed with the Member. I agree with Mr President that protecting life and living is the most important thing. At the same time, I have to argue about the means by which the government has done so and how effectively it has done so. Dear Parliament, If the government had expected to receive extra funds from the European Union in the current epidemic situation, it would have expected to receive an additional loan, we would have started protecting it about now. In fact, let me tell you, I look at Congressman for 855 million forints. The Hungarian State received liquidity assistance. This corresponds to approximately HUF 300 billion. The European Commission previously referred to the source which was available to Hungary in the period 2014-20. Beyond that, there was no other help! So the government began to defend itself... You mentioned the masks, Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvári. We've ordered over 200 million surgical masks, so that's the same number of masks as the Secretary of State said. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 250,000.]] So we started to defend ourselves by doing this from domestic sources. The other point that I agreed with is that, unfortunately, you were mistaken, Member, which you have acknowledged in the context of the consultation. This year's budget and next year's draft budget law will have HUF 23.9 billion available for consultation and communication purposes. What I have to argue with is the source from which the measures have already been implemented, and I also have to argue that these measures have been swift and wide-ranging, have been applied to everyone, or only to narrow groups. There was much talk about the government's health measures. I have the records of the world's medical organizations in my hands. I think we can say in an international comparison that these measures have been successful. Of course, for each life, we feel sadness, which has ceased to exist as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, but I repeat, this protection has been successful internationally, partly because the state has provided its own resources for protection. The debate is unworthy of the fact that, in addition to the resources already known for the period 2014-20, the European Commission has provided additional resources to us or not. In order to conclude this debate, we proposed to amend this year's Budget Act and to establish a separate fund in the next year's budget. This is the basis for protecting EU funds against an epidemic. In this we will count exactly every forint that the Hungarian State will receive as a new source. This will be part of the Budget Act. The State Audit Office will report on the implementation of this. I can now account for the fact that in 2020 this fund is currently at 0, or zero forints. I repeat, we have used the resources that we already have, as a matter of fact, but we have not received any new resources. As far as economic protection measures are concerned, Mr President, he said that the hit-and-run budget, we are helping a few people, we are not taking action in time. Let me tell you two things again. One Member referred to the EU loan facility SURE. Indeed, it is an asset with a favourable interest rate. It's about to open. About now, this funding facility opens, it's a liquidity source. The second thing I want to say is that in terms of economic protection measures, more than 150 000 jobs have been applied for by companies; more than 14 000 jobs have been applied for to preserve research and development jobs; more than 143 000 jobs have been applied for for to increase the competitiveness and job-saving support carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to protect more than 143 000 jobs. But for example, 62,000 people applied for eight weeks of digitalization training. I could get back to the line. The message is that these grants are available to everyone in a normative way. They are not available for small groups, not for certain businesses; they are available to all who meet the conditions. For example, in the media, János Kóka and his company receive support. Everyone, regardless of political views, will receive support regardless of the world view, without any discrimination, who considers it important to preserve jobs and, where appropriate, ask for support to preserve jobs. The 2021 budget is also built in this spirit, and there are resources from which we want to finance investment, job creation, job retention, regardless of whether it is a large or small enterprise, regardless of the worldview attitude of the head of the given enterprise. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.40]]
u2020-06-11-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the proper speeches. Member Gábor Bányai of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. We are here together on the second day of the general debate on the 2021 budget. Yesterday, the President of DK spoke among the leading speakers as the former Prime Minister; he left me with an amazing speech for us, posterity. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] yes Maybe it was good for someone, then my illusions ran out that, like he said, we wouldn't share a story. Cowardice was the most repeated expression of his intoxicating speech, and it is difficult to get past it, but it has helped me, Mr István Ujhelyi, to whom I will return a little bit. But we know that neither he nor he is worth believing in the country's voters today. Dear House, There is no question that the coronal virus epidemic has also brought the European economy to aground. The fact is, we don't care about that, and we really feel it. There is no question that labour market data is deteriorating. There's no question that anyone who loses their job will not be cured by the numbers and the number war we're conducting here, both pro and versus. It is also true that it will not be easy for the municipalities, but I also respectfully ask left-wing representatives, István Ujhelyi, where they were between 2006 and 2010, when your government reduced the funding of municipalities by 35 percent. Where were they when thousands of people had to be dismissed for mismanagement? And where were they when, during yesterday, several people spoke with tears of tears about county municipalities as former county general meeting president, it was not easy to endure that period, but they did everything they could to keep the resources from getting to us? And with all due respect, as Vice-President of the former Regional Development Council, I have suffered the development policy of István Ujhelyi and László Botka in relation to Bács-Kiskun, Csongrád and Békés counties in the South Great Plain. There I was told that the Fidesz municipality could not receive funding, and I respectfully signal to all of you, left and right, that at the time seven schools in Bács-Kiskun were renovated from EU funds. This became a church, so that the then Minister of Development had to go to the gang because the development experts in Szeged refused to allow the Holy Gellért Elementary School in Kiskunmajsa to receive support, even Gordon Bajnai did so personally, which I thank him for today. But let me tell you, today there are children in every Bács-Kiskun county school, where there is a lower school, at least, and all schools are being developed by the government from EU sources, and so we stole the money that all schools and kindergartens in Bács-Kiskun County are being renovated by the government from EU sources, and not as the socialists did in the period 2006-2010, telling them that no source can come to a Fidesz municipality. We've got everyone, and they're gonna admit it, and the mayors are gonna admit it. István Ujhelyi has said many times that he is a traitor and we have not said that. I just think he's a dealer, a political dealer, because he sells it in Brussels, I don't know how much, and for whom exactly, but it might be possible to investigate his country and his nation. But I don't think he's a traitor, that's not the term I'd use. He said some amazing things, and my illusion really stopped me from being able to cooperate in anything. But I remember his cooperation at the time in the background of the regional council around the Szeged youth house in New Szeged, about the discussions that took place there on EU money, and we know what they did last summer quoting an old film. Before me, Professor Tamás Mellar spoke a number of times ago. I will see this Open Budget Survey, it must be a serious organization; but since you've been a Member of Parliament and come out of the right-wing bond, you've been seeing a breakdown since we've been in government. It's what he's always had in mind that now, I'm sure, the country's going to collapse. He could be... he always said that the budget was a disaster, that's what he'd always come up with. What's it like? [[Dr. Tamás Mellar's intervention:]] That's what it meant right now. [[To Dr. Tamás Mellar:]] Thank you so much for the things you've told me. I respectfully ask you to look back at your comments and your attitude towards previous budget debates. That's what we've always heard from you. Now neither will the country's budget nor the country collapse. It is true that in the period before the Covid virus, according to the last data, 280,000 people were unemployed in Hungary in January 2020. By the end of April, this rose to 330,000 people. We know that, and there can be no question that it can grow even further. But let us not forget that 80 percent of the population who have fallen out of this employment, our fellow countrymen, come mainly from tourism and catering at the moment. Tourism is practically down, down, down, dead, but as soon as this sector recovers, and sooner or later the restrictions on national restrictions will only decrease, perhaps this year the tourism sector will recover a lot both in labour and in economic strength. We also know that in May 2010, more than 1 million people were unemployed, 12.6 percent of the country was unemployed from the active age population. This fell to 3.9 percent by January this year. And we know you don't know that, but I know that the number of unemployed in Bács-Kiskun County has unfortunately increased by 4,000, a quarter in the last three months. However, we also know that 6700 highly qualified or less qualified workers have been saved by the ITM, the Ministry of Innovation's support system, or HIPA's support has also saved thousands of jobs in Bács-Kiskun County or across the country. We have heard that the two numbers are close to 300,000, who, thanks to the resources of the two ministries, have been saved together. What I see is that our support measures to protect jobs, the resources devoted to job creation and its protection, technical improvements, state aids achieve their goal, they have an impact, as there are a multitude of entrepreneurs, and there are over-subscriptions to these resources. In every part of the Hungarian economy, we find that entrepreneurs are doing everything they can to restart their businesses. They believe what the government says, that it wants to help and help with its actions; they see the fantasy of support, and they also trust their own talent, and they do not want to drift into the depression and disaster of 2008 again, as we did in the middle of Europe because of bad government measures, which we have not yet fully recovered from. Entrepreneurs don't want this to happen. In addition, what is perhaps important in the context of numerology and the number debate is how public finances develop in wage-like spending towards the public sector. All areas could now be listed here, but while the government spent HUF 2611 billion on wages and wage spending in the public sector in 2010, this will be HUF 4476 billion in 2021. This is a significant difference, ladies and gentlemen, and the public sector still had the municipal system, including all the sub-actors. The same can be said that in the education system, although it is a fact and a fact that in the wages of an educator, the knowledge required by his profession and the human attitude are almost priceless, and they have always been considered to be the nation's day laborers, or they have been called so, because they were usually kept on a day allowance at a time before 2010, but today they earn 78-80 percent more than in 2010, which of course could be more. It is true that teachers in western Europe make much more money in university, secondary and primary education, but once again, this was not covered in 2010; because of the 2010 heritage, we can say that it is the eight years lost, as Congressman Varju said, our nine to ten years have been. In health care, when compared with nurses' wages, they had a average salary of 160 thousand in 2010, and today and by 2021 it will rise to 355 thousand forints, in part; in another part from 170 thousand to 390 thousand forints. There is a significant doubling in wage-related expenditure in healthcare for nurses and doctors alike. Paramedics will also receive double the amount of wage-related expenditure, as before, and this should not be used by my non-supportive fellow Members, or against it. There are also significant wage developments in the army. In 2010, a female soldier or soldier in a crew earned HUF 106,000, which is now gross HUF 255 thousand, but this will rise to more than HUF 300,000 next year. So in all areas that the government is overseeing and providing resources for workers' wages, public sector workers' wages, there has been an enormous increase. In fact, it's not enough. Here the former Prime Minister said with tears in his eyes and, I say, intoxicatedly, because it really seemed that Austria had provided funds worth 300 billion or 400 billion forints, thus offering on a platter to the municipalities there. If those eight years weren't like that, we would have been able to offer up to 300-400 billion forints on a platter. That source was lost there between 2004 and 2009. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] [[12.50]] All the money that was taken in loans and even in EU grants disappeared, and once again I'm just saying: you're always talking about stealing, you're always talking about draining EU funds, in Bács-Kiskun you've been able to renovate six schools between 2002-2010, now all our schools in 119 settlements where there are schools are hundreds of settlements, all schools, primary secondary schools, vocational training centers have been renovated and renovated. This is the big difference between the period then and the period now, which is why they are supporting next year's budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK group is László Sebian-Petrovszki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-55	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear House, We are discussing the budget proposal these days, and I must say that this budget, as Mr President said earlier, is a budget of weakness and cowardice, is what this government has submitted, and I will explain why I am saying this. The main issue of a budget is how and how we spend the available resources, resources, how we plan it, what we use it for, so that the citizens of the country feel that it is good to live in this country, that they have to pay taxes in this country, that they have to raise and take children here, and not elsewhere. The fact is that this budget before us does not partly explain why the citizens would be worth a whole wide crowd, why it will have a better year 2021 than 2020 or would have been, and on the other hand, it will be a very good year for some of the privileged groups close to the government, but financially for our money. The government which has tabled this proposal has neither intellectually nor politically put forward a strong proposal here, before this House, it is weak, and it is a coward, I must say, gentlemen, because it does not want to face certain fundamental, obvious problems. Why do I say that? For example, in the budget, less than one forint is spent on job creation and preservation, less than one forint, while there are nearly half a million unemployed, and obviously the number of these will increase in the next month, but, yes, your KSH has told us what the number is. They not only withdraw revenues from local authorities, as many have said here, but also increase the so-called solidarity tax fourfold, thus making the lives of local communities difficult and ruined. This is obviously how the government retaliates for the municipal election defeat lost last October. The budget proposal saves money in a number of important areas, from health education to family support and pensioners, indeed, dear gentlemen, because the government is weak not only to change the current pathetic socio-economic processes, but is also a coward to face these problems. While governments in Europe are making crisis budgets and working to leave as much money in people's pockets as possible to help them, this proposal, which is in front of us, does exactly the opposite of next year's budget, does not simply move Hungary away from Europe, but it is totally unacceptable for a European country to have such a budget. This budget no longer reminds me of the fact that we would otherwise be members of a European Community. Why do I say that this budget is a budget of weakness and cowardice? Although resources would otherwise be available in this budget for a reliable healthcare system, high-quality education, a livelihood pension or family support, it would only take some courage and strength to implement them and put them in the proposal of the government. The problem is that the government is weak enough to do these things, coward, to face the problems. What do we see in the budget compared to that? The government has filled it with proposals that are unnecessary expenditure, that can be avoided, that are not necessary at all, or proposals to help build a clientship. These proposals are unnecessary because they do not make life better for the whole country and not for the whole political community, but only benefit from a narrow, fidesz power elite, an oligarchic circle of these proposals It's just the taxpayers' money. We are talking about prestigious investments that are intended to support the glory of Viktor Orbán and his government, only in our money. I'll give you specifics, because that's obviously what you're interested in. I will start with the fact that the budget proposal, as Minister Mihály Varga said at the time of the presentation, came to us in a simplified structure, the number of lines halved, as he said. This is true, very clear, clear categories have been consolidated in a larger group, and therefore the budget itself often does not reveal what expenditure it covers. Obviously, I will advance Mr Secretary of State's reply in advance that, of course, but it is in the related background material, and it is possible to extract it, or at least there is an effort to make it less clear what expenditure is behind each line of the budget. I'll give you an example: the Blue Planet Climate Protection Foundation is the cause and foundation of President Áder's heart, not so long ago it has received a great deal of support in exchange for a signature, but the proposal says that this foundation will receive support for many other NGOs, but there is no amount left for it, that was before, for example, in the Prime Minister's Office's chapter. The Budapest-Belgrád railway line, so that I can come to the classification of concrete unnecessary spending, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which existed on a single line in the previous budget last year, was its name, it is now blocked, it will receive HUF 132 billion in this 2021 year, that is the planned expenditure of the investment that we know exactly about, because here, in the walls of the House and in the press, this information has been published, that it is actually for the enrichment of Lőrinc Mészáros and his circle, a completely unnecessary investment, and we are talking about theft here, Mr. I take this opportunity here, it is a special situation that this item is included in the Economic Protection Fund category; it has nothing to do with the protection of the economy; otherwise, I propose the Economic Protection Fund, let us rename it as the Lőrinc Mészáros Fund, because each item that is there actually promotes the enrichment of its business net and business circle. Let's look at the other unnecessary item, another prestige investment. Many people have said here, among the walls of the House, that the Paks II investment does not make any sense in the 21st century. In the century, there are better, more efficient, and more importantly, cheaper and a thousand times greener, more environmentally friendly solutions to generate energy. All these arguments, all analysis, were vomited to the wall, since next year's budget has 116 billion planned for Paks II. This is, of course, part of the Ripper Lawn Fund, as I just said. My special favourite is the promotion of government propaganda and public media, yes, I'll take the public media. It is quite difficult to define in the draft budget law how many hundred billion we spend on propaganda overall. It has said here earlier, it is indeed in the budget of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office for 23.9 billion consultations and other communication expenses, but I, indeed, list 77 billion of public media, but even the entire Antal Rogán propagandaistry and the National Communications Office budget. That's right. So, surely we can say that we spend hundreds of billions of forints unnecessarily on propaganda costs. Finally, I would like to highlight one more major point, and these are defence expenditures, if I count correctly, to increase by 28 percent from one year to the next. Personally, it is also disturbing to me that the Prime Minister and the governing parties are constantly using a war rhetoric, that we are providing support for gunfields, that the military high school network is being built, that we believe that unemployment is being solved, that the unemployed are going to be soldiers. I have a serious problem with all of this, but the fact that during a global crisis, we increase defence spending by 28 percent instead of job creation or supporting small businesses, or a thousand more important things, is such a loss of proportion in itself, a mistake that even in this surreal Hungarian world is rare. [[13.00]] I could list the additional extra unnecessary spending: the hunting exhibition, the Eucharistic World Congress, the support of cross-border priests, or the 20.4 billion to start building a new speed-engine track, because this is not even the entire investment. One word, like a hundred, dear ladies and gentlemen, is a budget of weakness and cowardice, and therefore the opposition and DK in it cannot support it in any way. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-11-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-11-57	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for next year is the budget for economic protection with the maintenance of the epidemiological preparedness. The draft budget law ensures that the Hungarian economy can remain stable in 2021, with significant growth. In the 2021 budget, the focus is on protecting families and pensioners, re-launching the economy and on the country's security. Next year's budget is projected to increase GDP by 4.8 per cent, with a 3 per cent inflation and a 2.9 per cent general government deficit, while the debt ratio will return to below 67 per cent. The preservation and re-creation of jobs in the 2021 budget is based on the Economic Protection Fund, through which there will be more than HUF 2555 billion in 2021, and we would create a Health Insurance and Disease Protection Fund with an amount of almost HUF 3000 billion. Rejection from opposition factions against the fiscal law is just another blind flight from them, and with the fact that yesterday's exhibition by Minister of Finance Mihály Varga was not heard from the entire opposition, there was only one lady in the Parliamentary Chamber who was credible for this. And the opposition's opinion is so discredited. With such an attitude, it is no wonder that, after eight years of socialist-liberal governance, in 2010, we took over a country that was on the verge of bankruptcy and that it was morally broken. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian economy has suffered socialist-liberal governance, but the last ten years' economic policy of Fidesz-KDNP, together with the work of the Hungarians and through the mercy of the Almighty, has brought the country forward, and there is a good chance that, despite the history and the epidemic, we can produce one of the best and most stable results in Europe. This year's negative economic impact will be offset by significant growth next year. The most important thing is to create new jobs for lost jobs and to keep as many jobs as possible. We also consider it extremely important to maintain solvency. Remember: In order for our fight against the epidemic to be successful, we also need the municipalities, so in next year's budget, we have 16 percent more resources than this year for the municipalities. Ladies and Gentlemen, As chairman of Parliament's Justice Committee, I would like to further highlight the judicial part of the budget. I think it is extremely important to stress that, thanks to the budgets adopted by Fidesz-KDNP in the last ten years, the Hungarian judiciary is the 21st. With digital innovations in the last century, Europe is practically at the forefront. The 2021 Budget Act further strengthens this direction. The 2021 Budget Act also strengthens the further development of the customer-centred court system with the funding that we started in 2018. The project was also launched on the basis of the budget adopted by us in 2018, which is based on three pillars: the publication and anonymization of court decisions; the electronicisation of court proceedings documents, the creation and development of the so-called e-file, which ensures that the parties have access to the litigation file regardless of space and time; and the third is the work on establishing and developing the linking of the court system with public registers. The 2021 Budget Act continues to strengthen these three digital court foundations. At the same time, the budget has supported and supported the ever-increasing financial benefits of courts, judges and judicial staff, while making the material conditions more and more appropriate. Here it is enough to point out, on the one hand, that a laptop or tablet could be purchased from budgetary sources to the judges, so that judicial telework could be put to the fore as much as possible so that they could work independently of time and space on the case. On the other hand, I would point out that, also from budgetary sources, the comprehensive renovation of courts in order to ensure a uniform appearance has begun and, at the same time, the establishment of customer centres per court. I would like to point out here that, for example, only the renovation of the Egri Tribunal was made from HUF 3.5 billion. Ladies and Gentlemen, After the courts, I would also like to comment on the prosecution's organisation on the draft budget law, welcoming Mr. Péter Polt and the prosecutors on the occasion of yesterday's Prosecutor's Day. [[Tamás Csányi applauds.]] Remember, the anniversary of the publication of the First Prosecutor's Act on 10 June 1871 has been the 10th of June since 1991. I think it is important to stress that, thanks to the budgets adopted by Fidesz-KDNP in the last ten years, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office has had the necessary resources for its operation and will continue to be available in the future, according to this bill. There has been a significant emphasis on expanding IT equipment supply in the management of the prosecutor's office, as well as building new buildings, renovating old buildings in such a way that they already have the most modern infrastructure. Next year's budget will continue to ensure this direction in rem, together with covering rising operating costs, while increasing the amount that can be used for personal benefits. From all this, it can be concluded that next year's budget will also be the Justice Budget. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats support the adoption of the draft budget law. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-11-58	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group.
u2020-06-11-59	Thank you for the floor. It is very important that I can address a person whose central element in politics is to have a Christian-social policy. This, too, is certain in this budget, and I am sure that the shortcomings that I have discovered in the social budget will be explained in the same depth and in the same length of speech by him and my fellow Members following the Barankovics principles. The fact is that we believe that the budget should serve to enable the State to perform the essential tasks of the welfare state and to do so through redistribution. [[13.10]] However, this budget does not involve significant additional welfare expenditure, it is not a type of welfare budget. Although I suppose this was not claimed by any of the pro-government keynote speakers, which I heard outside that report, and I am very sorry that there is nothing in the room that the Secretary of State Rétvári has just held, in which he spoke of increases of 6 percent and 15 percent respectively, which meant an increase of approximately HUF 8 and 24 thousand respectively in nominal terms compared to the average wage situation in the cultural and social sectors. The fact is that there is a need for radical wage increases in the social sector. There are 15,000 vacant jobs that make the social services system not work well. I suppose we all know it in this room, and it's a fact, and I'm not going to say that it was just under the Orbán government, but I'm just saying that the Orbán government didn't pay enough attention to this, that if a person's older relative, in most cases a family member with dementia, is forced to go to an elderly home, then the waiting list is about 2 to 2.5 years. In the last eight years, this government has not created a new place for elderly people to live among state-owned institutions, or there is still a roaring injustice resulting from the Vatican contract that church social institutions receive 1.8-fold normative compared to the state. In my opinion, this is not allowed because the same people who enter the state institution paid taxes, worked off a life, paid social security for 40 years, which is why they are entitled to a decent old-age care. The fact is that the amount of the budget spent on elderly care needs to be increased and increased in the next year and in the years after, every year, because whatever they say, the Hungarian society is getting older, we live longer and longer, but unfortunately not in health. We are going to spend more and more years in which we need to be cared for, and the budget must be prepared for that. This is not an opposition thought, by the way, which I have said, as György Matolcsy said earlier, but I do not see this coming in the budget. In elderly care, the government has a conservative ideological attitude, which, in my opinion, does not reflect on real Hungarian life, because the EMMI says as often as possible that nursing is a family task. Elderly care cannot be a family task, as many people live in mosaics and other family forms in Hungary. May I remind you that 49.7 percent of the born children were born out of wedlock last year. You may disagree with him, you can have an ideological debate about this, I just want to say that this is the Hungarian reality today. Consequently, many people do not have the opportunity to take care of their family. Moreover, in most cases it is neither medically justified nor professionally fortunate to look after a person with serious dementia at home, for example. Therefore, this is a state task that the state should perform, which the state does not do to the proper standard. The fact is that the state is essentially obligated to provide these people with a tax paid, a decent ageing after a life worked out, and they are not doing so now. We need a lot more money for this. In addition, I think it is cynical for you to say that it is a family task to take care of old people when, at present, those who care for their elderly relatives, often living with dementia, 38 thousand of them are likely to grow to 43-44 and 58 thousand forints, and this is likely to grow to 60 thousand forints. So you will receive 40 or about 60,000 forints to care for your elderly relative at home. You won't be able to do this, because this allowance, this salary for work, doesn't replace the fact that he falls out of the labour market in order to care for his elderly relative. I still find it incomprehensible that, by the way, at budgetary level, there is no significant investment that it would require, that the home care fee would rise equally to the minimum wage level for everyone, why it has not been introduced in this budget year. In 2004, when this terrible Balliberal Government was mentioned earlier, it was a fidesz amendment proposal to achieve the minimum wage level for everyone at home care. I don't understand why they didn't do that if they're still suggesting it in opposition. The fact is that without social workers, however, it cannot be a worthy elderly care, disability care, child protection. The lack of 10-15 thousand people in the social sector and the ageing of the workforce and how many people are in retirement is because about everyone in this sector is looking for a guaranteed minimum wage. They're the worst state employees ever paid. The 15 percent of what Mr. Secretary of State Rétvári is talking about is that an elderly care worker earns about 170 thousand forints today, about 180 thousand forints for a child protection worker today, so that's the case, and that's why no new people are going on the field, and there's this incredible shortage of workers that the government could solve, there's money for that, there's a thousand unnecessary things to take away, but you don't think the social sector is important. This can be seen from what they simply cannot explain, and they have not yet been able to explain why they are not giving the one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement, which they are quite rightly giving to health workers, social workers, who have also been involved in the fight against the epidemic, who have worked in the same way under the threat of an epidemic, with an enormous overtime, therefore this is absolutely incontrovertible. I would like to reiterate that when Minister Kásler understood this, I say to Secretary Maruzsa, if he is here to represent the EMMI, so Minister Kásler spoke of elderly care in the social care system when he explained why social sector workers do not receive the one-off wage supplement, saying that institutions with church and civil reserve are elderly homes, when about 30% of elderly homes have a state reserve. So the Minister for Social Affairs doesn't know that he maintains nursing homes. If it's not dilettantism, I don't know what it is. If such a mistake had been made by an opposition mayor or politician, the whole of Fidesz would have laughed at it three weeks ago. I hope that Minister will have the opportunity to say this in Parliament separately. I go on: disability does not receive sufficient resources in this budget. There are good, budget-supported parts of disability provision, and we are very happy about that, there is a tendering system, which I think works to the satisfaction of everyone with smaller or bigger problems, but basically, disability is not receiving enough support, especially, and I would like to draw the attention of the State Secretary of State to this, the medical education and the SNI education are not given sufficient resources separately. The average salary of teachers is also a joke. It's a joke! In addition, if we are talking about a government with national traditions, Gusztáv Bárczi is one of the oldest Hungarian higher education institutions, yet the largest Hungarian tradition is almost in therapeutic pedagogy within pedagogy. So if something could be supported in Hungary, then these institutions and, for example, the Pető Institute, and many such things could be said, yet SNI education does not receive the budget support it should receive, and this will never happen if medical pedagogical assistant and medical pedagogical wages are so incredibly low. In many cases, under 200 thousand forints net they receive university graduates with incredible professional skills. I'd like to move on to a few local cases. Perhaps one of the most important things is that many municipalities now had to change the previous budget and therefore had to part with things that were very important, and the local citizens had a very important service for their taxes. I'd like to start with some examples. It is not a city with opposition leadership, because I do not use the word "bleeding out" because this is not something that Minister Banai does not like, he said, the reduction of his resources earlier, or it could be said that the transformation in a way that I hope he will have less hope that this will be a proper euphemism instead of bleeding out, so this kind of new municipal budget not only hits the opposition-led cities, but also hits the Fidesz-led cities. So let's start with one of these, let's start with the town of Győr. The mayor of the city of Győr, András Dézsi Csaba said that the installation of mobile air pollution meters in Győr will cease, so there will be no air pollution meters in Győr, because the budget had to be redesigned by the city of Győr, the city which has the largest industrial tax revenue in Hungary, if you look at the population. So I'm gonna put in a budget amendment to install mobile air pollution meters on Győr. This is not a significant amount, but let the Győr people not suffer the fact that the government is taking me away from the municipalities. [[13.20]] And yet it is not such a large amount that the Fidesz Members do not support it, I am thinking of a separate Member, Simon, who has not been in the Chamber before, but hopefully will support the amendment on his constituency with his vote. I'm moving on. There are still two very important issues in Győr, which are at least as important as the new cultural quarter-győr theatre announced by the mayor, and this is such that, for example, there is something to do with the area of the old hospital in Győr. That's about 1 billion forints. After all, there are people in the government who are definitely interested in Győr because they are from Győr. For example, Minister Péter Szijjártó, so I am sure that he will use his well-known lobbying power for this matter. This is the area of the old hospital in Győr, it's a state-owned area, so there's room to talk about it here, to change it a little bit, to turn it into a public park that the city dwellers can use. Anyone who has seen it already knows that it is not in a state worthy of Győr, and it could be a public park, there could be apartments, this is very important, because the housing situation in Győr is very difficult, the property prices have been very loose recently, and it could be suitable for the reception of a new public institution if the mayor wants to give the city a new function. In fact, what is perhaps the most important of the city of Győr, even mayor has repeatedly said that this is a serious problem, and the former mayor, whose name I am not mentioning now, also said that this is a serious problem, the condition of the railway station in Győr. I don't know when my fellow Members were last there, but it really doesn't suit the quality of Győr's railway station. It's unbelievably broken, and I think we can give you a source for that. I understand that there is much left out in the series of agreements surrounding the Modern Cities Programme in a given settlement, but perhaps the need to be a cultural quarter at the Raba is all the more important for the Győr railway station to be renewed. That's what everyone who comes to town first sees. And then I must say that two other local amendments are related to the city of Szombathely. One is that I really think there could be a party political unit in this, because this is not a very party issue. Now, with the coronal virus epidemic, we know exactly how bad it is to have few green surfaces in a city, if there are few green surfaces available, if people are locked up, how serious it can cause psychological stress, and yet there are urban green surfaces that we are not really using. These are most of the rooftops on panel houses. So a green roofing programme could be set up specifically. I suggest we start in Szombathely. It would be a good example. We'll look at the experience there, it can be extended nationwide. Yet the fact is that these green roofs can at the same time be socializing, they are good for the city's climate, they can go out there. After all, this is a space that one can feel in some way within a community. I do not think there is any objection to this, so I look forward to the support of my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Hende. In addition, I would like to make one last amendment that I submitted last year, which was incomprehensible to me, neither the majority of the government nor Csaba Hende supported it, and this is the renovation of the bus park in Szombathely. The thing is, the average age of the bus park on Saturday and my average age isn't as different as we all want to be, I think. That's how I could briefly summarize this problem. The thing is, it's really unfair that the bus park on Saturday is in the same condition as it is. I suppose this problem arises in several places, but I hope that if I put forward an amendment in this regard, then Csaba Hende, who has repeatedly talked about how unbelievable it is to compromise, said this after the elections, not before, but no matter; so since the elections, he has told me how compromised, and his willingness to compromise is still a former minister, he will be able, through his lobbying power, to get an amount in this budget in Szombathely that will allow the bus park to be no longer close to my age, but, say, to the generation who was born this year and last year. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-11-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Szabó, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to budgets, I may always think about the numbers from my professional past. This is also what I do when I hear from the opposition the numbers of long ago, the past, the present and the future, and then I always realize that somehow I can't find a logical connection in these sequences, I can't see the correlations they see in exact numbers. What am I referring to here? And then let's talk about the facts, because we know that these are stubborn things. What I see in the budget for 2021 is that culture itself has 174 percent more than in 2010, 221 percent for faith life, 385 percent for sport, 139 percent for social space, 54 percent for education, 77 percent for health care. I accept all criticisms, I know that we are not at the end of the work and process, but one thing is for sure, we are heading in the right direction, positive numbers support this optimism. I would also like to refer to what our dear MSZP fellow Member in the European Union has put forward here. For me, this is strange because, as Secretary of State Rétvári said, they designed the EU cycle between 2007 and 13 and launched it. At the time, health care did not mention that instead of EU standards and applications, several hospitals would be resolved with Hospitalist. About the medical resources of Hospinvest were roughly halved, and this direction would have been a nationwide, exemplary thing. At the time, it wasn't about creating jobs, it was about giving aid. And my problem with the job creation mentioned in point 1, which is the most important for us and is included in the new budget itself, in the 2021 plans, was not about how long-term development can be maintained. It was not the case that if I gave aid or a minimum wage to everyone without work, it would be sustainable in the long term, when there would be no European Union funding, how it would sustain itself. What hurts my heart the most is agriculture. The news has just been revealed that we do not prefer to produce cheaply; EU subsidies in agriculture do not support cheap food and we can even take products produced on the Hungarian market abroad, as we admit that when we opened the European Union's big market, we were talking about letting us in because we were getting financial resources in return for catching up and repairing developments. The EU's intention to make imported agricultural products cheaper is unacceptable to me. I think there's something more we can do. Overall, the most important thing is that all budgets are sustainable. And if I may, I would like to give you an example: 110 years ago the last coherent railway system was built in Hungary and was handed over. This so-called jasziság line, the Tumosgyörk-Újszász section, was launched by the Archbishop of the county at the time, and the farmers, landowners, local leaders, then politicians began to build this railway section. The section between Jászapáti-Vámosgyörk was handed over 110 years ago. Why do I say that? Because they didn't count, they didn't think in such a way that they were sure it would pay off, but they did one thing: they started the development of an area. And today there are more cities on this railway, there are more settlements on this railway, which is due to the development, development, progress of many castles, territories, school renovations. Why do I say that? When we look at a part of a country, say, part of a county, let's assume that my constituency is the development of the Hatvan-Heves axis, the Heves 3 constituency, we cannot say just one element, we cannot highlight an element, but we have to deal with at least twenty: job creation, roads, institutions, schools, kindergartens, social services institutions. [[13.30]] For the past ten years, what this region has developed can be seen. My fellow Member, Gábor, has already mentioned this: all schools have been renovated or will be renovated, the kindergartens are being renovated, 16 of the nursery will be built only now in the next period. And what's interesting is the state of the roads: we haven't finished yet, but 130 kilometers of road has been renewed, and now we're developing 50 kilometers of road. If we project this to the national level, that means more than 11,000 kilometers nationwide. Sooner or later, we're going to make sure all the roads are renewed. And what does the new budget mean? Let's take a look at the upgrades. There's over 200 billion in it for road development on its own. Let's see, there's the Hungarian village program! It's got over 90 billion forints planned, and I know the government's thinking, if there's a chance, to raise it. These are internal and external roads, and this is one of the most important things people feel so that they can reach and reach the workplace. One fact: we must not stop until everyone finds work on the ground, at the nearest workplace, in this process. Covid is causing a slight interruption, but we will replace them, and this budget will give us the opportunity to take these steps. As I have said, we need to think strategically in the long term and in the development of all areas, be it the doctor, be it the patroness, be it the mayor's offices and be the jobs. It's just like that, it goes together and it works together. Give it to me, Lord, but it doesn't exist immediately. We already know that everything in life has to be worked for. The 2021 budget gives us the opportunity to carry out and develop this task. And if I may, at the end of the day, a serious development opportunity that I offer to all my fellow Members, especially to the opposition, is to the attention of the Members of Parliament who work there: this is tourism. In many countries, tourism is a source of income and income, which accounts for most of the GDP. Thank God, before the virus, Hungary has seen this through, that we need to develop tourism and take advantage of our talents, there is a great deal of revenue. In my area, most of the tourism developments that have now been planned and implemented are all in the right direction. Some are already being built, and some are going to be built: heated beach, development of road network, 60 Grassalkovich castle, small circles of slopes, fish staircase, development of Lake Tisza. For each of these, it is included as a tourist development of money, and all of them are either in the state of implementation or will be realized. In response to the criticisms of how much the Hungarian government is involved in this: both in terms of the use of the strategy and the use of EU development resources, because development resources can be made available both through the municipalities and through the state. However, there are two other items: one is the key items in the budget, among which we will have to look for the developments that we would like to criticize, I say to the opposition, but I would like to praise them for their good ideas; the other is the improvements on which we can say they are small, because when a village makes a playground out of HUF 34 million, it is not this, but the program that is also implemented from government sources. With my fellow Members, we often say this program, which is not an operation, but an investment and development. And when we talk about there being no funds in villages or cities, no money, then there are lines in the budget with which the government has always helped: there is no debt, there is no need to borrow, there is no need to accumulate, because I can't afford the school anymore, remembering 2009, I don't need to borrow money from somewhere to paint the doctor's office, or ask for paint, so simply going down, because there is a way to get the opportunity from the source of the Ministry of Interior or from direct sources of government, and we can solve this. If anyone goes to any point in Hungary, people everywhere will say this, and mayors everywhere will say all kinds of colors, conditions, and nothing else. The settlements are developing, job creation is going in the right direction, and the people living there are thinking more and more positively because of the family support system and the job creation, and this is noticeable and tangible. For the last time, I left an idea that I liked very much, especially on the day of national integration: István Széchenyi's idea in Credit, who referred to the fact that he did not like it when we talked about the past, he liked it when we talked about the future. Well, I would ask the opposition, my fellow Members, to support the budget for 2021, because it is actually about the future and it contains an additional opportunity. How good or how bad it is, obviously time will do, but the example of the past ten years is a positive example, and that means that the budget for 2021 is also going in the right direction. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellár, Group of Dialogues. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The first thing I would like to say in my previous speech is that there is quite a lot of uncertainty about the whole budget planning, because by this year, we do not really know what will happen at the end of the year, what the rate of growth will be, and consequently not next year. Therefore, I would like to suggest to the Ministry of Finance that it is not too late, but that an alternative programme be prepared, so an optimistic and pessimistic scenario, because there is now, overall, one scenario taken over from the convergence programme, and the probability that it will be implemented is quite small. Therefore, it would be worth thinking about now what if, let's say, this epidemic of viruses had a second round, what if the global economic crisis would be longer than what we are imagining now. The second thing I would like to say briefly is that I was very happy to listen to my fellow Member, Mr István Simicskó, who spoke passionately about the increase in military expenditure, defence spending, this increase of 28 percent is certainly necessary. What I would like to see, once in a while, is a pro-government, fidesz representative who would represent the issue of the same vehemence, say, education or health care, and would also be able to report that from one year to the next, the amount of education expenditure or healthcare expenditure has increased by 28 or 30 percent in the budget, as both areas would need it. In the current budget, it can be seen that there will be a nominal increase of 3.7 per cent for education, which will be below 1 per cent in real terms, if inflation was observed, and there is only an increase of 8 per cent in nominal terms for health expenditure, which is, in real terms, 5 per cent, but given the extra expenses they were, I think it would have been justified to set up a much larger amount, a larger increase. A recurring sentence and argument from the government side that this will be a budget aimed at protecting jobs and that, above all, the most important aim is to protect jobs, as the Prime Minister has often said. Here, my colleague from Baranya also said that the aim is to create as many jobs as the virus epidemic will eliminate. Compared to this, in the programme, the unemployment rate will be 5.6 per cent this year, and only 4.3 per cent next year, which, if we compare it to 3.4 per cent before the crisis, obviously cannot be maintained, and I have not yet said that we are now above 9 per cent. [[13.40]] This is also interesting and worrying because it is very important to deal with people who are getting out of work for a shorter or longer period of time, but in any case, to help them properly by increasing the time and amount of job search support, or by increasing the family support system, because the current family support system is such that it supports families in the top three income tenths much more strongly than those in the lowest four to five income tenths. So it simply seems that there is such a discriminatory state aid, since those in the lower layers have access to less and less social support than the wealthy, who do not really need it. This consultation was discussed in connection with Mr Ujhelyi's speech, and several of my fellow members from the party to the government said that one of the important elements of this consultation is the Soros eternal bond, which they want to ask the opinion of citizens, because this is what the European Union wants or will introduce. Well, what I would like to tell you is that a decision has been made in the European Union, and they do not want to introduce eternal bonds. If the government doesn't know that, that's a big problem. But if you do know that you did put him in the consultation, but you want to mislead the citizens, then maybe that's even more of a problem. What is now on the table at the European Union is, by the way, issuing a long-term bond with an expiry date of 2058. So it is not an eternal bond, it is a firm, albeit long-term, bond, which, by the way, puts little burden on the countries that take over in the short term, and, in the long term, inflation will obviously assess this significantly, so the burden and weight will be less and less. The next thing I want to mention is professionalism. On this occasion, too, I have experienced several times that speakers do not really comply with the basic rules of the profession. For example, Secretary of State Rétvári speaks with all courage about billions of dollars in growth or talks about percentage increases without telling us what he is talking about compared to what he is talking about. The billion-forint increase or the billion-forint expansion or some billion-dollar stock only makes sense if it determines the prices at which it is counted. However, we could experience the same from the comments of my fellow Member Zsolt Szabó, when he began to mention that he had increased by 174 percent and 221 percent, but he forgot to tell us what the reference period was, compared to what he said, and whether these are real value changes, still priced or current-price items, because it does not matter, it is not the same thing. I felt a little bit like in the one-time story when the captain yelled at me and asked, "How much?" The answer is: in 30. The rejoining answer is, what's thirty? The answer is, "Why, what's how much?" So it would be very important to use a common language here, at least in this House, when we are talking about a budget, so that we always use clear concepts and clear categories, which are comparable, comparable categories, because otherwise the whole has no real relevance. Finally, I would like to reply to Mr Gábor Bányai no longer in the room, all the more so because he mentioned me by name, but also because it is a far-reaching thing. He said that he looked at me, he felt in his speech that it was not worth paying attention to, because in recent years I have repeatedly predicted that the Hungarian economy is collapsing, and I see that it has not collapsed, and therefore my professional opinion does not matter at all. If I could ask you back, I'd like to say, in which study did I write that the economy is collapsing? Or in which interview did I say that? Obviously none of them, so he wouldn't be able to give an example. But what did I say? And I think it's more important. It means that the current government, the Fidesz government, is not using the resources at its disposal in an appropriate way. In 2010, this government received a historic opportunity. He was given a historic opportunity to achieve a two-thirds majority, and I supported and voted in favour of Fidesz, and also that the European Union has provided a very significant amount of support to Hungary during this period. From this I expected that Hungary would start on a clear, clear course of catching up compared to the mistakes of the previous period, and that the modernisation that had been delayed for decades would finally start to take place. Unfortunately, I was wrong about this because that is not what happened, because these European Union funds were not used by Hungary, the Hungarian government, to modernise the Hungarian economy. Today, the structure of the Hungarian economy remains lagging behind, one that cannot guarantee competitiveness, which cannot produce sufficient quantities of exports, because just think about it: the companies that have produced such a significant, large increase in the last 8-10 years and I do not say names or companies here, how much do they contribute to the country's exports? How competitive are they producing? How much of their production can be classified in high-tech industries? I think we all know the answer to that. So the big problem is that a very significant, very important historical opportunity has been missed by this government, and it's not about me saying that the economy is collapsing. It's not collapsing. Unfortunately, economies can operate for long, long decades at a much lower level than they can. Older people may remember that here a completely nonproductive economic system has survived for more than 30 years, called socialism. Therefore, it is still possible that there will always be enough additional external resources to maintain it at some level. But there are very good examples, and I think that this should have been a strong focus in the budget, so that this really should be the budget of renewal and modernisation in the crisis, and here are the examples, because, at the time of our accession to the European Union, both Slovakia and Poland and the Baltic States were behind us in terms of GDP per capita, all of them are now ahead of us. So we could've run a course like this, or we could've walked in, and there's no reference to the cursed legacy and all that. So the story is that there has certainly been an absence of a great and great opportunity here, as it has been written several times in Hungarian history in the last 100-150 years, and István Bibó is right when he says that he is a disfigured Hungarian figure and a dead end in Hungarian history. Well, the Fidesz government couldn't get out of this either, and that's why I'm very angry or expressing stronger criticism, because somehow I also feel that we can't get out of this old curse and really line up among the countries that are able to grasp and exploit opportunities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[13.50]]
u2020-06-11-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, representative of nationality. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-65	[[No sound.]] Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: No sound!]]
u2020-06-11-66	Just a moment, please. Let's try it again.
u2020-06-11-67	Can you hear me now?
u2020-06-11-68	I need help right now. One moment, please. And I would also ask for the understanding of my fellow Members. But help is already there. [[Ritter Imre has a portable microphone placed in front of him.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-69	Thank you very much. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten meine gestrige, 20-minütige Rede bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T-10710. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen weiter treibei. Mr President, Dear House, Please allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to continue today my contribution to the draft central budget law for 2021, which started in 20 minutes yesterday. At the end of my comment yesterday, I spoke briefly about the national needs related to the budget for 2021. On the one hand, the T/10710. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2021 contains a surplus of HUF 802 million for Roma ethnicity subsidies compared to 2020. Chapter 20 5. 1) under the title "Professional and investment aid for Roma nationalities'. We consider this to be appropriate, so we do not make any further increases or amendments to this. On the other hand, for the remaining 12 Hungarian nationalities, the bill contains a real reduction in subsidies of HUF 422 million, and the Prime Minister's Office XI. Chapter 30.1.31.4., funding of national minority institutions for investment, renovation and tendering has been transferred from 1 billion HUF 818.7 million to XLVII. Chapter 2.1.7 of the Economic Fund. The budget needs of the Hungarian nationalities in 2021 were drawn up on the basis of very detailed and thorough surveys and analyses, a major part of it even during the preparation of the draft budget law for 2020, but unfortunately it was not included in the budget law for 2020.There were also two main areas, on the one hand, the continuation of the minority educator programme and the increase of the investment and renewal self-sub-sub-funds. We have already discussed with the national national minority self-governments, with the purses responsible for nationalities, and we will also reconvene with the parliamentary factions. On this basis, 13 Hungarian nationalities intend to submit a total of HUF 1.1 billion amendments to the 2021 budget bill. The main focus of the 13 national minority change needs is this time the operation of national minority self-governments and the support of the media, as well as the institutions maintained by national minority self-governments. In advance, I must note that the last time four years ago, in the 2017 Central Budget Act, there was a substantial increase in funding for national minority self-governments, six years ago at the National Roma Municipality, the last time in 2015. However, since then, a series of legislative and economic changes have taken place which objectively justify the increase in aid. I would like to talk about these in more detail. Firstly, we would like to raise the support of 12 national minority self-governments and the media in 2021 by HUF 329.1 million, by 19.3% due to the following four factors. On the one hand, according to an objective, uniform assessment principle for all, we examined and compared the operating costs of the general assemblies of national minority self-governments on the basis of the fact data for 2018. As a result, we would like to add to the budget of the national minority self-governments operating at the lowest general meeting unit costs up to HUF 100 thousand per person per month. This includes fees, all wage costs and their contributions, costs in rem, expenses and all other expenses of the general meeting. This affects eight out of 13 national minority self-governments and requires a total of HUF 76.2 million in additional support. [[In the notary seat Dr. László Varga replaces Dezső the Believer.]] On the other hand, at the national minority self-government elections in 2019, an assembly of eight persons had to be elected on the basis of the number of persons registered in the national minority register in Croatia, Germany and Slovakia. For their part, the addition of the operating costs of the general meeting will amount to HUF 28.8 million in additional support. Third, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Following the amendment of Act No. 1 January 2018, the national minority authorities took over the right of trustee of the building and building stock of the public education and cultural institutions they maintain. The current T/10303. CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. With the adoption of a bill amending the law, on which we will vote next Tuesday, the national minority authorities will also take over the ownership of their national minority institutions after 1 January 2021. In his previous speech, the Bulgarian spokesman Varga Simeon spoke about this in more detail. By taking over the trusteeship and ownership, the national minority self-governments are charged with the property insurance fee of the institutions they reserve, which requires an additional HUF 18 million per year. Fourthly, the national minority authorities and the media require a 15% increase in the amount of support for 2020 reduced by the costs of the general meetings, amounting to HUF 206.1 million, since the operating costs of the national minority authorities have not been increased since 2017 for four years. All of this together results in a HUF 329.1 million increase in support to the 12 nationalities, i.e. 19.3 percent. At the National Roma Municipality, this means HUF 65.1 million and 15 percent support. As a second area, we want to raise the support of national minority authorities and their reserved institutions by HUF 572 million, to HUF 1 billion 731.7 million. This means an overall increase of 49.3%. The increase in aid is justified by the following five factors. Firstly, with the already mentioned institutional trust rights and soon ownership, the annual depreciation obligation of 2 percent will be HUF 231.1 million, which will require an increase of the same amount of support, given that the national minority authorities do not have their own revenue and that the maintenance and renewal of the institution is a task taken over by the State. [[14.00]] We are talking about 39 institutions with a book value of more than HUF 11.5 billion. In this connection, there are also open regulatory issues that we are currently negotiating with the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, in five national minority self-governments, Bulgarian, Croatian, German, Ruthenian and Slovak authorities, nine new ethnic institutions have been created in the last two years, or significant scale improvements have been made in existing institutions, the annual operating costs of which are to be ensured. This total is 131.1 million forints. Thirdly, the five permanent so-called stone theatres maintained by national national minority authorities have received part of the operating costs since the Bulgarian, Croatian, German, Serbian and Slovak years through individual grants, the possibility of which does not allow the theatres to operate in a planned, economical and efficient manner. We therefore consider it necessary to plan these individual grants, which amount to HUF 99 million. Fourthly, T/10098 on the transformation of the civil servant status of persons employed in cultural institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural laws adopted on 19 May 2020. According to bill No.1, civil servants employed in the cultural sector should be granted 6 per cent back-to-back wage development as of 1 November 2020 and their status as civil servants should be terminated. In the cultural institutions maintained by national ethnic authorities, the combined amount of the 6 per cent wage development and the cultural allowance granted so far with individual support is HUF 26,5 million, which must be guaranteed by an increase of the same amount as in 2021. For the Roma ethnic cultural institutions, this amount is HUF 0.2 million. Finally, we consider it necessary to increase the overall operating support of national minority authorities and reserved institutions by 7.5 percent, which is HUF 84.2 million for the 12 nationalities and HUF 13.7 million for the Roma nationalities, because, as I said, no increase has been made since 2017, four years ago. These five factors make up the need to increase support of HUF 572 million for 12 nationalities and HUF 13.9 million for Roma nationalities. The national minority authorities and the media, as well as their national minority self-governments and reserved institutions, provide a total of HUF 901.1 million for the 12 national minority self-governments, HUF 79 million for the Roma nationality, thus totaling HUF 981.1 million. In addition, we intend to raise the Prime Minister's Office by another HUF 121 million. Chapter 30/1/31/1, on the allocation of operational expenditure for the following two uses. On the one hand, we intend to provide an extra HUF 50 million for the scholarship of the higher education student from 1 September 2021. On the other hand, we intend to provide HUF 70 million to ensure the staff and material conditions necessary to improve the quality of the training of minority educators who are expected to be 140 persons higher from 1 September 2021. I'll talk about this in more detail tomorrow. I am therefore a little sorry that Minister of State, Mr Maruzsa Zoltán, yesterday, when I reported on the results of the pedagogical programme to date, and tomorrow, when the additional tasks and the survey carried out in recent months, he was not here. However, let me take this opportunity and thank you, because in 2016, we first discussed the framework of the national education programme with Deputy State Secretary, and in recent years we have received very serious assistance from both him and his State Secretary that we were able to achieve those results at the minority educator's allowance, the launch of the national education student scholarship system that we have achieved so far, so I would like to thank you publicly and in an unusual way. And then, going back to the budget with one sentence, all of this together makes up the HUF 1 billion HUF 100.1 million increase requested for 2021, which I would like to ask for your support to accept. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-11-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group.
u2020-06-11-71	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would like to draw up once again the debate with the Secretary of State and take up this thread, because we are obviously in a debate on why I say that this is a cowardly and weak budget for the future. I would like to state once again why we should continue the debate in this sense. He is a coward because he refuses to take into account the fact that the world has changed, and in this changed situation, there have been very many people at a disadvantage, and you refuse to confront yourself with this disadvantage. It's weak because they can't even find a solution to that, but it might be worse because they're not looking for it. Because what do they do instead? They're running a model, the point of which is that they decide everything from a centre, they don't seek consensus with anyone, they want to distribute resources to those close to you, instead of being market-centred, as state-centred. And that is why they are causing enormous damage to what they are doing, because they are essentially leaving Hungary on the side of the road. That's what they did in crisis management. For example, in crisis management, the opportunities offered by the common federal system in the European Union are ignored. Why do I say that? Because you claim that there are contracts that have already been concluded in advance. And, Secretary of State, tell me how much free money is that which, by the way, is not contracted, which could easily be redirected to the possibility of economic rescue, so that by the way, hundreds of thousands of people are not unemployed. That's why I say they're cowards, because they refuse to face what they have, and they're weak, because they can't solve what they need. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-11-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Simicskó, KDNP Group.
u2020-06-11-73	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Just let me respond to my colleague Varju for one sentence. I think it is a thoughtful and responsible budget, because it is a budget for economic protection, for the protection of families, for keeping jobs, for creating jobs. So it is a brave budget, in a crisis situation, and I think it is a great job, and I would like to thank you; Mr Secretary of State, please hand it over to the staff of the Ministry of Finance. But I'd like to respond to Tamás Mellar. I'm sorry he's not here right now. Agreeing and thank you for acknowledging my vehemency here, which meant discussing the positives of the defence budget. Forgive me, I'm a little committed and biased about the Hungarian Defence Service. I agree with him that efforts should be made to ensure that the level of defence spending is not the only measure of security, because it is the safety-conscious thinking, education, the role of international organisations, wise diplomacy is all about security and can strengthen the security of a country. But the fact that we finally have a strong Hungarian defence, I think that it is necessary, and the historic moment has finally arrived, that we can do this, that we can build it. [[14.10]] Let me respond to Mr Ritter Imre, a little, in agreement with what he said, in the sense that it is the year of national cohesion. The memorial session was not so long ago, on June 4th, when we heard a very beautiful, touching and wise speech from the Speaker of the House. I think it is important that as many of us recognise that Hungarian ethnicities are communities that enrich Hungary's values and culture, it is important that we help keep their mother tongue so that they can preserve their historical traditions and culture, because Hungary is also growing. We are Hungarian citizens here together, and we can strengthen this community. They mean value to us. The subsidies which are set out in two items here have already been drawn up by the spokesperson. I trust that the budget will be acceptable to them as well. In particular, I find the fate of those who do not have an external mother country very difficult because subsidies are coming from there, just as Hungary is helping Hungarians across the border, for example in the case of Ruthenia. They need special attention, too. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Thursday, 11 June 2020 139/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2020-06-11-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches announced in writing will now follow. I give the floor to Congressman Károly Panczél, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In the year of national cohesion and a few days after the painful Trianon commemorations, allow me to talk about the national policy aspects of the 2011 draft budget. Ten years ago, we began the reunification of the Hungarian nation, and as part of this, we established a system of national political institutions, which will enable foreign subsidies to be implemented in an institutionalised and coordinated manner. Over the past ten years, we have made more progress in the reunification of the nation than in the 90 years left behind together. We have been able to increase our resources to support Hungarians across borders in the last ten years, and we have been able to accept the budget of the Hungarian nation, not Hungary, for many years now. Thanks to the national policy activities of the past years, we can finally say that being Hungarian in the Carpathian Basin is once again an advantage instead of a disadvantage, and being Hungarian in the region today is not less, but more opportunities. The budget ahead is proof that the challenges posed by the epidemic are no obstacle to continuing to set our targets in a national framework. The programmes that have been launched and have been operating on a systemic basis for years, and the strengthening of Hungarian communities abroad will not stop in the following year. Thanks to proposals and support programmes under the professional supervision of the State Secretariat for National Policy, the programmes of 3,200 Hungarian institutions and organisations from abroad can be implemented each year in the Carpathian Basin and in the Western Diaspora. Thanks to the funds provided in the budget, the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and the Petőfi Sándor programme will continue, which will help 220 Hungarian organizations operating in sporadic and diaspora, and hundreds of thousands of people will be able to provide and communicate with the Hungarian experience in the sporadic and diaspora. Within the framework of the thematic years of the National Policy Secretariat, the Carpathian Basin Entrepreneurship Network, the construction of the Carpathian Basin Patronage and Pediatrics Network, programmes for families with small children, camps and events have been launched in recent years, and several good practices in Hungary have reached the broken parts of the nation. We consider the continuity of programmes that have been running for years to be essential and so we continue to operate them. The next program I would like to talk about is the Unlimited!-program, which will help to increase the number of students in Hungary who have direct experience of the cross-border parts of the nation. In the last academic year, 2019, 100,000 students were able to travel across borders, and since 2019 the support for high school students' travel has also been implemented. At the same time, the building of relations between young Hungarians from abroad and the young Hungarians from abroad can continue to grow, as the programme also supports the travel of foreign student groups to foreign student groups in addition to the cooperation of secondary schools. I consider the kindergarten development programme in the Carpathian Basin to be very important, where the last developments have already been completed in hundreds of parts of the Carpathian Basin. Within the framework of this programme, 130 new kindergartens and nurserys were built and more than seven hundred were renovated and expanded. We have the right to be proud of this, since Klebelsberg there has not been such a degree of public education institution development in the Carpathian Basin. The Economic Development Programme in the Carpathian Basin operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. This has led to unprecedented enterprise development projects in recent years, which have contributed significantly to the creation of a single Carpathian Basin economic space and to the preservation, prosperity and growth of the homeland. By continuing all this, we can take another step towards the economic reconstruction of the Carpathian Basin. In addition to the programmes set up to support foreign Hungarians, funds extended beyond the borders can be implemented in 2021 to achieve national reunification in the fields of education, culture, ecclesiastical affairs, agriculture, conservation of monuments or tourism. Some examples of these programmes, which are included in the budget in various ministries, let me mention separately. Support for cross-border higher education tasks has been recorded in the chapter of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. Next year, nearly HUF 800 million will be available for this task. It used to be in the chapter of the EMMI. One of the most important items of national policy in the budget, since the replacement of Hungarian intellectuals across the border is also of paramount importance in the national strategy. The aim is to provide support for at least one training centre per region and to ensure the mobility of 300 students from abroad and in Hungary in the Carpathian Basin in 2021. So the main goal is to maintain and increase the number of Hungarian intellectuals living in the minority and to promote their spiritual development. A new budget line was first published at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade last year, namely support for the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme. Last year, the amount and apology for this year, 500 million forints, 532 million forints, will increase three times in the following year. Unfortunately, Csángóland was beyond the Carpathians, where one of the most neglected parts of the nation lived. I think that with this support we can also contribute to the development of Csángóland, so that economic development, education and traditional preservation programmes can be launched there. The Ministry of Human Resources includes the management of support for cultural tasks across the border. With some 121 million HUF, the Ministry supports the professional program of performers-art organizations, theatres and dance ensembles across the border. And the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is also involved in the unification of the nation, as their budget includes the support of Hungarian scientists and scientific organizations across the border. This appropriation includes the source of the academic programme supporting Hungarian science beyond our borders and the support of the Cluj Academy Committee. Finally, I would also like to say and highlight one flagship of national policy, Bethlen Gábor Fund and the manager of this fund as an economic organization, where 33 billion forints are spent in the budget. [[14.20]] In this framework, there are various national policy programmes and the support of the Rákóczi Association, as well as the financing of the Unlimited! programme. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2021 is therefore a guarantee for the continuation of the unification started in 2010, and a hundred years after Trianon, the Parliament can once again adopt a budget aimed at strengthening the united Hungarian nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-11-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I have had the pleasure of taking part in budgetary debates since 2010. I can recall a whole series of labels from these years, labels with which my fellow members of the government have marked the budget for this year and for the following year: stability, grabbing, progress, progress, work, family, countryside, and even today we have heard that we are discussing the budget for justice. Unfortunately, however, in the rarest case, these labels reflected reality, real content, or at least this is our experience, especially when the year on which the budget is spent is passing, and we can draw conclusions. It would have been more realistic and realistic labels if we had talked in recent years, say, about Ripper's budget or about the Orange Baron's budget. I would therefore like to highlight, therefore, parts of agriculture and rural development that I think are the most burning, show the greatest shortcomings and, most importantly, the hypocrisy and contradiction that these labels represent. Since we became a member of the European Union, the agricultural sector has been influenced by the current government with three sets of instruments. These are: legislation, land policy and aid policy. All three main groups are characterised by the fact that the budget has a major impact on these options, these instruments, as the budget is also a law. It is clear that in 2021 you did not even think about, say, creating such legislation, creating agricultural legislation with real content, i.e. with budgetary resources. For example, the budget we are discussing is already forecasting that next year there will certainly not be legislation to support family farmers living on the ground, because this does not have a budgetary resource; just as the rethink of the long-promised cooperative model, its form adapted to the EU framework, will not happen. Without these, real progress in the Hungarian countryside is certainly not expected in the Hungarian agriculture. In the explanatory statement, I saw some half-phrases of where the lines that were included in the previous budgets as at least a separate line were placed. I am thinking of supporting the Hungaricums, supporting Hungarian beekeepers or Hungarian aquaculture. There was no significant source for this in previous years either, there were no significant lines, but at least some kind of guarantee, some kind of predictability for those in the sector in question, if they saw the amount of money in that line for them. Compared to this, we should now come up with a large, combined amount of money to figure out how much you're going to spend next year, say, to support and help beekeepers. This is certainly a concern, and, overall, together, you can see that this is a step backwards. There is no reason why they dared to name these sectors as separate lines now. I have talked about property policy as the other large package of tools, which would give you the opportunity to make a substantive contribution to what is happening in the Hungarian countryside. The numbers are talkative here too. Forints 3.4 billion are planned to buy land next year. From this amount, there are different levels of land coming out in different parts of the country, but we are talking about a few thousand hectares overall, this is how much the Hungarian state would like to interfere with what has happened in the countryside. In addition, if we add that a significant part of these land purchases will probably be made out of some kind of investment, otherwise they will have nothing to do with real estate policy, thus giving us an even sadder picture. Of this amount, of this barely more than HUF 3 billion, it is obvious that young farmers and families will not be able to help. Obviously, there will not be any agricultural-generation change programme, which would also be urgently needed, and which we are talking about here in Parliament week after week, by the way, and you are constantly mentioning from your benches as a completely legitimate problem, but clearly you do not want to use the means to resolve it. And the third such area, which I have already referred to, is aid policy. Obviously, a large part of this, which concerns rural development and agriculture, is an EU resource, so there is no point in talking about it now in the context of today's debate. However, it must be mentioned that, for example, what is the situation with the Hungarian village program, which has been praised so much today. With regard to the settlements that I have information about and the needs of which I can really assess, I can say that, adding the possibilities of the Hungarian village, it will be enough for about 7 percent of the needs of the settlements. And this isn't some kind of land-flinging, huge, unreal needs, I'm talking about everyday, tiniest improvements, even repairing a few meters of pavement. So about 7 percent of the total needs of the Hungarian settlements, smaller and medium-sized settlements, will perhaps be fulfilled by the Hungarian village. If my insight is real, then this is very worrying, and if not, then I am happy to see you join the debate, correct it, and have a meaningful discussion about how much it is really enough for the Hungarian village programme, which is constantly being enlarged here. And if we put this aside in parentheses, with what restrictions are now coming for the municipalities, then that 7 percent could melt a lot more. It can therefore be seen from this that the government has decided and follows the previous line, the kind of South American model where natural resources are concentrated in the hands of a narrow elite, and they do not really deal with the livelihoods for large rural masses. For example, in my amendments, I envisaged the development of the Nebih tool. This is also a problem that comes back year after year. The Nébih and the competent Secretary of State declare that we are unable, for example, to establish that a honey or wine is false, while the technology would otherwise be available. I am trying to provide funds here with this amending budget. This alone would constitute a significant market protection for domestic beekeepers and winemakers. [[Dr. István Simicskó is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Some thoughts about the cavalry, perhaps. They started to take a national cavalry program to government level and to adopt it, and in practice it became very quickly that some local entrepreneurs could join in the renovations, the business, and for the average Hungarian people, for horse life, it was not a real step forward. So much so that we have come to the point that the proverb or the image of ourselves that we are a horse nation is so false that in Slovakia there are more people in order to be able to, say, ride or have daily contact with the horse. So there are serious delays in this area. I am very sorry that the budget here is unable to jump on its own every year, unable to make progress. In the absence of my time frame, these were the most important cornerstones that I wanted to point out, and to which I wanted to draw attention, as regards the Hungarian agriculture and the countryside; and a few words about my narrower country, Győr-Moson-Sopron County, should also be heard. [[14.30]] I may be biased, but I think that there are few areas in the country where thinking in unity or thinking in a single tourist destination would be such a great opportunity to make progress. We observe trends, we also see on our own customs that tourism shifts in the direction where a family tries to see as much as possible in a given region within a few days or weeks. Since we do not have a sea, this is even more exponentially true for Hungary, and there is a very mixed picture of what interested people, tourists, are curious about. There are very few people who wish to see only the built cultural heritage, or just nature, in general the picture is more mixed. And that is why we are saying and saying that we need to think in unity, and we need to create a destination where all this is given to interested people, tourists. As I said, my region would be extremely capable of doing so. Even ten minutes would not be enough to list in headlines the number of attractions that Győr-Moson-Sopron County and its surroundings could and can offer, but until the state summarizes this in a framework and we create a unified picture, it will be less attractive for tourists. I have also tabled a number of amendments in this respect, and I hope that at least the relevant pro-government MPs will vote in favour of constructive amendments to their own district. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-11-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, allow me to inform you that the Group of Dialogue has informed the Registry Bureau that their further timeframe for today will be passed on to the MSZP Group. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-11-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The coronal virus epidemic is a major challenge for countries around the world. The negative effects of the global epidemic have also overwritten the economic outlook in Hungary, so the primary objective of the Hungarian economic policy is to preserve the results achieved so far, to protect jobs, to create new jobs, to protect and restart the economy. Thanks to a consistent economic policy over recent years, the corona virus epidemic hit a resilient, balanced economy in March 2020. The government's aim is therefore to allow the Hungarian economy to return to an outstanding growth path at European level as soon as possible. In addition to protecting and relaunching the economy, the preservation of Hungarian national values and our sovereignty is also of paramount importance for our country to remain a strong and safe country in all respects. Maintaining the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people remains one of the most important challenges due to the threat of immigration to Europe, the associated threat of terrorism and the adverse consequences for public security. Hungary is located on one of the most pressured migration routes, which is why the government will continue to ensure the amount of resources for public security and defence in the following year. According to the bill, spending on the protection and security of our country is increasing by more than HUF 984 billion compared to 2010. In addition, I think it is important to emphasise that institutional assistance for Christian communities with persecution and discrimination is essential for the security of Europe and, therefore, of Hungary. The threats to human safety include war, genocide, a mass loss of the right to food, health and housing, as well as a crisis caused by natural disasters. These factors are clearly consistent with the causes of the refugee issue and economic migration. Among the appropriations of the Prime Minister's Office in the year 2021 with a chapter management, the programme "Hungary Helps" is among the priority areas and aims, with the Hungarian government providing the financial background for the coming year. The main objective of the programme remains to alleviate and reduce the international migratory pressure on Europe through direct humanitarian assistance on the ground. The educational, humanitarian and reconstruction projects of the Hungary Helps, in the religious, cultural and economic sense, serve to assist, remain in the homeland of vulnerable, persecuted and needy Christian people and communities living in crisis zones, while at the same time strengthening peaceful coexistence between different religious and ethnic groups. It is also a professional goal to draw the attention of international communities to the fact and extent of Christian persecution in order to ensure that other governments and organisations in addition to Hungary participate in humanitarian and value-saving work that requires urgent and decisive action. The expected result of successful domestic and foreign thinking is therefore not only the broadest possible awareness of the persecution of Christians and the strengthening of humanitarian thinking, but also the prompting of concrete engagement and cooperation in the spirit of assistance. I think it is particularly important to draw attention to the scholarship programme launched in 2017 for persecuted and discriminated Christian young people, which aims to give Christian young people who are excluded from higher education an opportunity to continue their higher education studies in Hungary. The training of Christian young people not only promotes the education and skills of Christian communities, but also facilitates local prosperity in line with the objectives of the Hungarian Helps programme, thereby reducing the migratory pressure on the European Union, and can further increase the long-term economic relations between the issuing countries and Hungary. According to the bill, the budget for 2021 amounts to HUF 3 billion for HUF 800 million in support of the Hungarian Helps programme. Ladies and gentlemen, In the following year, our country will carry out a number of high visibility Presidency tasks. The Hungarian Presidency of the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee will take place between May and November 2021. The quality management of the Council Presidency of Europe is not only a government interest, but also an opportunity to represent a number of Hungarian priorities, national and national political interests. In the framework of regional cooperation, Hungary will take over the V4 Presidency on 1 July 2021. The draft professional programmes have been completed, and the preparations for their implementation will start at the beginning of 2021 with the active participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. In 2021 it will be a priority event for the Budapest Sustainability Expo and World Meeting, which will take place in November 2021, with the aim of promoting sustainable development in the Central and Eastern European region and strengthening Hungary's central role in green thinking. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the Paris Climate Summit in December 2015, there was a concrete commitment on the source of climate finance for developing countries. Hungary, which has signed the Paris Convention, has also undertaken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address the issue of adaptation to global warming. Hungary's climate change situation is unique and Hungary's share of global greenhouse gas emissions is marginal. In the last 20 years, only 21 countries have been able to grow their economies by reducing their CO2 emissions. Hungary, as well as Austria, the Netherlands and Germany, is one of these countries. In line with the European Union's 2030 climate and energy targets and orientations, Hungary has developed a second national climate change strategy for the period 2018-2030, with a view to achieving a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of between 52 and 85% compared to 1990 by 2050. In addition to the national decarbonisation roadmap, this strategy also includes the national adaptation strategy and the, together with the climate-related approach plan. In order to implement the targets set out in the Second National Climate Change Strategy, three-year climate action plans will be prepared. [[14.40]] An important task of the first climate action plan is to identify the optimal emission reduction pathways that are cost-effective, most conducive to sustainable development. In this document, Parliament has declared its commitment to climate protection, to participate in all international and EU climate protection processes and to meet its obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to increase carbon dioxide absorption. The Decision empowers the Government to carry out the tasks set out in the Second National Climate Change Strategy, which include, inter alia, ensuring the production of the models needed to assess the effects of climate change, continuous updating, methodological and technological development. In order to achieve climate protection objectives, it is necessary to help finance building energy investments, in particular for residential buildings and public-service institutions, and to encourage the effective implementation of climate change approaches, as the aim is to achieve Hungary's climate neutrality by 2050. The Hungarian government has created a programme to ensure that by 2030 the energy produced in Hungary will be 90 percent carbon-free. In addition to further reducing the emission levels, the priority is to align energy security, climate protection and economic development objectives and to protect our created environment, supported by concrete measures in the climate and nature conservation action plan. In particular, I would like to highlight from a number of actions in the Action Plan that the marketing of disposable plastics will be banned from July 2021, in particular the use of plastic cups, cutlery, plates, straws and shopping bags. To this end, the Hungarian government will support businesses with a significant amount in the development and production of new products replacing single-use plastic products. The budget proposal provides a duration of HUF 2 billion 528 million for the operational expenditure of energy, mining and climate policy tasks in the energy and sustainability sectors, among the chapter-led appropriations of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. In 2021 it is a priority to collect and exploit waste from products subject to product charges and to support related waste management developments and to carry out public awareness-raising tasks. It is also important to carry out planning and development tasks related to the documents setting out the strategic objectives for waste management and to finance the public development of priority economic zones. For the financing of sustainability tasks and utility services, the budget proposal envisages HUF 20 billion of HUF 668 million. The main sum of the Hungarian stockpiling budget in 2021 for the energy and climate modernisation system is HUF 34.3 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The focus of energy policy is on ensuring Hungary's secure energy supply at all times, taking into account sustainability, consumer resilience and competitiveness. The aim is to secure, environmentally sustainable and competitive energy production and distribution, as well as to improve energy efficiency and reduce our energy dependency. The policy objective is to promote energy efficiency, energy saving, energy Racialisation, climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector and increase the share and use of renewable energy sources. I am convinced that they represent the country's fight against climate change and are worthy of humanitarian aid, in which Hungary represents local assistance as one of the most important instruments for preventing migration, through the Hungarian Helps programme, in order to safeguard the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-11-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of Parliament, MSZP Group. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2020-06-11-81	Mr President, Thank you very much. Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! We're discussing our country's budget for next year these days. The negotiation of a budget is traditionally: the representatives of the governing parties highlight the advantages of the government's budget and the opposition tries to point out the shortcomings. But if it's mechanical, and it's the only way, it doesn't really unfold what we think of our country. In fact, a budget is not simply a set of numbers, there must be a concept behind it, and this concept is nothing more than the idea of the responsible government and of the responsible opposition as to how it intends to govern and change its own country. Therefore, I do not think that it is only for each other to be confronted with a praiser and a reprehensible one, but we are trying to put this in a framework that makes the conceptual difference between us, which is also understandable. You, the honourable party, the government and its representatives, obviously have a kind of vision of the country's future overall, which is presented in the form of a proposal for next year's budget, and we, the opposition, in different groups, obviously have a different position. I would now like to look at the aspects of education, including public education, in such a way as to project and get out just a little bit, and only from the competence of a specialty, especially a ministry. However, I have to say, we do not get very far if this is... of course, I was once involved in budgeting, I know chapter assignments, but our country as a whole consists of chapters that are not adjacent to each other, it is not possible to separate how we imagine only, and only in the traditional sense, primary school education or, let us say, adult education, kindergarten world or universities. Therefore, what I am saying there I will try to expand the narrow area of expertise a little, but still highlight three specific issues relating to education, including the world of public education, about concepts and differences between concepts. The first is teacher rental and the promotion of teachers in recent years and as this is next year's budget in the future. A politician who is not happy and does not support the fact that if any of the social groups are involved, the central budget will have a higher share if he receives more salaries. However, what you are leading up to with teachers, built up in communication, I must say, is that your promise is being made in breach. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] In order not to make this a political statement in itself, I would like to present this in detail. In December 2011, a law called public education was adopted, which, for more than twenty years, broke any dispute we had with each other in the field of public education. The implementation of this law, which is not part of the budget on one side, I have to say just because of understanding, was nationalisation, and the state reservation of the public education institutions, which had so far been maintained by the local government, in the management of the institution-support centre named after poor Klebelsberg. This method has failed since then, but it was said at the time that they could realize the idea that I was talking about, there must be another leg of this law, more money for the string, more honey for the string, and this was called a teacher's career model. [[14.50]] This career model had a particularly prominent part. This prominent part was that the minimum wage is inserted into the A1 category, in Hungarian, as the minimum wage rises, so the salary bill of teachers is automatically and pro rata, according to the table. This is something that honourable pro-governmentists do not have to deal with public education for a round of two academic years, almost respected for three calendar years, and violated in 2014. This agreement was not simply published in the budget for a law or for a few short years, but you, not personally, though I know that there are Members among you who voted in favour of it at the time, because they were already Members, but also signed in the form of an agreement in education, including with trade unions in public education, signed in the physical sense of the word, not only stated in political terms, they not only gave three interviews about it, but agreed and added their word, writing and signature. It hasn't happened since 2014, and you've broken it. The minimum wage has been removed from category A1, and this is not only being continued in the next year's budget, but also being said in category 63. According to §, the project fund of teachers remains unchanged, still 101 500 HUF in 2021. This, honourable members of the government, means that the salary, wages, if you keep your own promise that if you are faithful to your own signed agreement, is 32 percent higher than in the reality of the career model you have glorified. You are proud to implement this staged career model, tell the public every year how much the teacher's wages are now rising, and again, it is better if nothing has been done, but compared to their own promises, it is far from what they have promised, what they have accepted and what they have signed. That's not the opposition's demand, honourable party, that's your promise, that's your signature, that's your agreement, that's your 2011 law. All I ask of you is your own promise, only your own vote, only your own signature, because you will not fulfill it, and after you fail to do so, in the midst of great cheers, you will tell me how good it is that you are doing, which is significantly less than what you have signed, by the way. It's not okay. Therefore, we recommend that you keep your word. All I ask of you is your word in words, in writing and in law. I'm asking you to keep what you promised in 2011, you kept it for a few years, and then you left your promise, your agreement, your signed word. The second question, also related to public education, is the knowledge of Hungarian students, the youngest generation of foreign languages. In this regard, let's be honest, your ten-year policy is a failure, an obvious failure. At first, in the autumn of 2010, we were able to abolish the so-called zeroth grade of language brought and introduced by our governments, but instead they didn't, because they didn't come up with anything, they only came to the point of abolishing it. Then, after they realized that there was a big problem here, because they had no concept of foreign language teaching and learning foreign languages, they created a so-called academic rescue program, with a budget of HUF 3.2 billion. That, please, failed so much that it can't be much more spectacular than that, because they just barely applied for it. Of course, if you didn't apply, you couldn't win it, if you applied, only a fraction of you got your degree. Ghostily, after this graduation program failed, the graduation program II was introduced, obviously inspired by some medium-level American TV series. The second part of the graduation program was an even bigger failure than the first one, because then the efficiency was only measured by a thousand percent. As a result, your decision, namely that access to higher education institutions was subject to a minimum secondary language examination, was forced to be abolished in the autumn of last year, because it simply did not work. Ten years' worth. Therefore, obviously the figures shown in the budget are behind people, possible careers, lives. I must say to you that the last ten years cannot be undone, but I suggest that you consider what the MSZP's education programme contains, namely, that the foreign language zero grade be restored. That's, I'm sure, because I know it's cheaper in the language of the budget than the amount of money that's been squandered so far. That it's more effective, and I guarantee it, because it's been working for two years. Each year ten thousand young Hungarians received a minimum secondary exam, up to 15 percent higher education. Compared to that, you'll pay for your language exams. But since they can't get to the language exam, they can't get a language exam because they won't get it, so please consider this proposal. They have an idea, which is also included in the budget, that for the time being two classes of young people in public education are being taken abroad to foreign language settings and camps. I think it's good, just because we said it first. It was in our 2014 election program, the idea itself. So that after six years or five years, you have reached the point that this thought has come to you, that is to be praised. But I know that now, who are sitting here, there are more of us who speak a foreign language, and consequently have learned, and I know that there are people who can teach and teach a foreign language. I'm asking you to consider what I'm about to say. You would take tens of thousands of Hungarian students to foreign language settings for two weeks and 14 days, mostly in English, German and, for example, Spanish and Chinese, but who speak foreign languages at any level, but let's say, at a level like that, I know that there are people here who can stand up, and this speech could now continue in some other foreign language, believe me, I am one of them. You can't learn a foreign language in 14 days. I also understand that this is not intended to go anywhere in 14 days, starting from zero, to hope for some middle degree, because once again, I have some experience, but in 14 days it cannot even seriously confirm a foreign language knowledge, moreover, and since we are in the debate on the budget, let me say for 90 billion forints. For HUF 90 billion, they want to strengthen one Hungarian student once more in the foreign language knowledge of the order of ten thousand. One opposition should say to each item of the budget that there is little, little, little, more, more, more. But in this case, I'm saying it's a waste of money, so that they can do better with our common money. There will be no confirmed foreign language knowledge. Either they take the young Hungarians out for at least two months, take fewer students or put more money into it, because for 14 days it is not worth teaching Hungarian students in a foreign language in the Netherlands, England or China, because there will be nothing of it, we will just throw 90 billion forints out the window. [[15.00]] I'm asking you to think about that. Finally, is there any innovation in your education policy in the language of the budget and on structural issues? Or will one year take over his previous legacy and leave it to the next? And this is going beautifully every year, while the world is passing by, and there is an emergency situation that is going to bring us into Hungarian education within this, to implement a practice that, although it could not have been prepared, it is certain, but it is not prepared, and then it is the truth, and then, at the same time, the pressure of coercion, really from one day to the next, even from one hour to the next, tens of thousands of students and teachers are switching to online education. Your budget is proud of the system of free textbooks. In itself, it is right that we started it, you continued and extended it. I would like to ask you that, by the way, you have considered that the world is slowly moving beyond the system of printed textbooks. They remembered that the students we were talking about were seven years old, nine years old, and I don't even talk about the thirteen-year-olds, and they didn't take the best of their knowledge a long time ago, like us, our fathers, and our grandfathers; our acquisition of knowledge is much more similar to the acquisition of our grandfathers' knowledge than the acquisition of our children and grandchildren' knowledge, who don't learn that way. The vast majority of their knowledge comes from a different source. Therefore, I do not condemn the free textbook system, so please do not cling to it, do not hang on to it, and do not try to say that I condemn the free textbook system, but I say that a little more innovation! A little more flash-forward. When you look at your smartphones, just remember your child and your granddaughter. Shouldn't we switch the free textbook system continuously and gradually to the free laptop system? I would like every Hungarian student to have a laptop in their hands within a reasonable period of time, and this is on the central budget, plus software. This is how Hungarian public education could be set on a modern course, or at least adapted to the new system of knowledge transfer and transfer. I would like to ask you to accept these proposals as a proposal from the opposition responsible for the Socialist Party, a proposal that is mostly about citizens, teachers, children and students and not our fellow politicians. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-11-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Maruzsa, Secretary of State, who obviously wishes to respond to what has been said. Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you to remain still in your seat, and then later, when you have finished answering, you must be kind enough to change. [[Dr. István Hiller: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-06-11-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, According to a summary of the Ministry of Finance, educational expenditure will increase by HUF 80 billion in the next year's budget. I think it's even more favorable than that, by the way. But let's go over the elements here. On the one hand, the budget includes the coverage of teachers' wages, which have increased by 10 percent since 1 July, at least by 10 percent in public education, which is 18 percent in the case of starters, as compared to the guaranteed one, which has already increased in January, this 10% increase is based on this. This is covered in the budget. It is also the amount of resources available to support the professional tasks of the Education Office, and indeed, as the Member said, it also covers the provision of completely free textbooks. We're talking about a back-up system, and we're gonna get to the end of it from September this year, but we're gonna be covered next year. And it also includes, according to our internal calculations, the HUF 35-45 billion that we are planning for this year's foreign student travel program. It was clear in the communication that the programme would cost 90 billion if everyone was travelling, but since travel is not mandatory and surveys show that not everyone was planning to travel, so the 90 billion cannot come up as a full cost, but it also includes next year's budget as well as this year's coverage, which was used to calculate the release of this programme. Also, this year's and next year's budgets include the funding of the Lázár Ervin programme, where we wanted to ensure and plan the visits of the theatres and museums for primary school students to become cultural consumers once in a school year. This year, we had to stop these two programmes, the foreign language learning programme and the Lázár Ervin programme because of the virus situation, and we had to turn the available coverage into something else, as appropriate. In the 2021 budget, however, the intentions, the plans are the same, and I think that we need to make it good news that these programmes are also available to cover, so we can continue to develop the public education system where we have otherwise stopped in the pre-poverty period. This will also be further supported by the European Union's resources which, as a result of the change in the euro exchange rate, are now falling in at the end of the previous cycle, and by the end of next year, we are confident that the relatively high resources of the next EU cycle in the field of education will always traditionally be able to support. What do these few items I've just listed mean? These surpluses are available. In my view, it represents the financial stability of the education system; it must report, because otherwise, financial stability exists everywhere in the background institutions, and this can be said for the entire education system. No debt. I would like to highlight this only because there have been a lot of budget debates in the last ten years where the funding of the operation of the education system has always been in question, and the question was how many billion forints of debt the system has rolled before 2010, only at the time, I think it must be said honestly, in the same spirit as the Member said. It also means the stability of jobs, and I would very much like it to appear, because this is something we should highlight. Now, even in dealing with the epidemiological situation, we have not been divorced from any of our colleagues who are in the status; neither has the state reduced the funding of the kindergartens for the municipalities, the maintenance staff, nor has there been any change in the financing of public education institutions of state, church or private maintenance which would otherwise have meant the loss of jobs. I'd like to, by the way, if we're talking about the past, that's what we're talking about. It is radically different from what happened in 2008-2009, and I must say that I did not envy the Minister responsible for education and culture at the time, because I know you, and I know that he did not give his own motivation to reduce the pay of the teacher at the time by taking the 13th month's wages, because in the crisis management at that time the salary was reduced, and the educational portfolio did not come up with it on its own initiative to reduce the number of colleagues in the stock with about 15,000 teachers, because it also happened factually. But at the time, the economy was so weak, and after six years of government, the budget situation was so weak that in the crisis management at that time, without having recourse to the IMF, which came here and told us exactly what measures it was expecting... so I have to say, in addition to the greatest good faith, that the country was in an emergency situation at the time, and that the then government was forced to achieve, in terms of job cuts and cost savings in the field of education as well as in terms of employment. Today, after ten years of civil governance, he is not in a position, thanks to God, the Hungarian budget and the economy, to put teachers' posts at risk in addition to the expected economic slowdown and the changing budget revenues. [[15.10]] The budget is not in a position, and I am pleased that the education sector is not arguing with the Ministry of Finance about how much it will decrease and how many thousands of people will be less next year, but, on the contrary, the introduction of an additional 10 per cent supplement, which is not guaranteed in a legal form, but which, by the way, is still in the government decree, on which, if we had asked 100 people on the street, I do not think that half of it would have accepted during March-April whether it would otherwise be insured. We have also received a number of questions about whether the government will keep its word in relation to the decision taken in February, or whether the epidemiological defence will also wipe out the budgetary coverage of this. I would like to say that this is not the case, and the government has kept its word, and, despite the epidemiological situation and the robust expenditure involved in public education on 1 July, wages are indeed being raised, and this is being covered in the budget for next year. He spoke about the state of language learning and language learning. I would like to highlight two figures, and this is why I am helped by a regular Eurostat survey of the state of the population in terms of language skills. In the 2008 survey, 25 percent of the Hungarian population said that they speak a foreign language, 42 percent said the same in the 2018 survey. So there's a robust improvement. Of course, this has been greatly contributed by the past, and I am consciously saying that decades have developed in terms of language education. In addition, in the field of textbook provision, they are also included in the world-wide language learning, not only in language books, but also in software, knowledge elements and even online development tools. It's in there, by the way, and we intend to include the new program that we started, which, unfortunately, we had to cancel this year. I think that it is worth waiting for this programme to be measured to see what effect it will or might have on those who will benefit from it. It is our intention that the government will allow all high school students to participate in this two-week programme, which is indeed, as the Member said, and pointed out that this is also part of the truth, not to transfer them from zero to secondary language, but to reflect on the government, which clearly comes out of the surveys, that Hungarian language teaching focuses too much on grammar, too much on vocabulary development, not on communication skills, and that this can be done in the most live foreign language environment, all the surveys confirm that the profession has always made requests in this direction. I think that we have reflected on this, and it can be useful to provide an intensive two-week language programme as soon as the epidemiological situation allows young Hungarians to do so. There is another element of this programme, which I have read less criticism of, but this is also intended, and this is also being prepared, and this is also the sending of teachers to two weeks abroad to the target language country. I consider that, since criticism does not usually reach this part, then perhaps everyone can agree with this, because we also know that Hungarian language teachers are talking about about about about 18,000 colleagues in the case of a very complex background from which and with what preparation they teach the language today. Here we can really talk about colleagues who are the youngest and the most newly prepared colleagues from universities, who were trained from Russia at a relatively high speed, but all of them, on the basis of every survey, require that they take part in courses that are foreign, or very far from the traditions of Hungarian language teaching, using innovative language teaching methods. We're starting this program, we're working with this Tempus, the Education Agency. Besides the English, German, French language area, however, we feel it is important to address Spanish, Italian and Russian relations, and we will also launch this programme element. We expect a lot from this program element, by the way. With regard to the provision of free textbooks, I am pleased that there is agreement in the intention, and I would like to underline that we are not just thinking about paper books. If someone has also followed the development of the past weeks in the context of the fact that we opened up the National Public Education Portal several months before our plans, about 80 smart textbooks that have already been made on HTML basis, with videos and task banks, I think they have contributed greatly to the fact that the state textbook portfolio could also be used in this new digital working order outside the classroom, this on the part of the opposition, and I can even say that it has remained uncritical by the press. This is always such a feedback to us that it certainly does not contain huge errors, and it can even be said that something good was able to get started in this area. I can report that we register between 80 and 100 thousand visitors per day on these sites, for example, these digital textbooks, so-called smart textbooks, and we are working with great forces to create as many digital versions of textbooks as possible in parallel with the introduction of new academic regulators along the paper recast. So there is no debate between us that, in addition to the provision of textbooks which I think are necessary in paper form for a number of years, we really should go in the direction that the Member has raised and, of course, we will also provide the necessary resources from budgetary and EU sources. And I am also very sure that this will have a very positive impact on the readiness of Hungarian students in the field of digital competences, in the field of professional knowledge and, of course, in the area of language skills, as these developments are also taking place in the language field. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a rural representative, allow me to talk about the rural development of the region in relation to the 2021 budget. I believe that in the life of the countryside it was a turning point in 2010, because since then the countryside has been given more attention, the government pays particular attention to the development of the Hungarian countryside, and in particular it is committed to developing settlements with a population of less than 5000 people. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I am the representative of the westernmost constituency in Hungary, where there are 127 settlements, 125 of which belong to this locality. The aim is to halt the harmful demographic process that can be felt throughout the country, to reduce migration, to reduce population loss, to halt it and to turn it into a positive process. Our aim is to assess the disadvantages that can befall rural people, people living in small towns, and improve the quality of life in this local community. This is why the government created the Hungarian village program in 2018. This affects about one third of the domestic population. The main objective, therefore, is to strengthen, promote and help rural housing in the form of small settlements, in addition to maintaining the population. What we want to achieve by the programme is that the choice between villages and cities should not be a choice between quality of life and quality of life, but a choice between lifestyle and lifestyle. Let us say, for a few words, that, indeed, the Balliberal governments had a village-destructive activity, which was linked to the weakening of the institutional network, the liquidation of the institutions, and the inability of the municipalities. On the other hand, the Hungarian village program has a broad support system, it has three main elements. The first main element is the village CSOK, the family support system; it is a housing program that provides up to 10 million non-refundable grants to builders, buyers and HUF 5 million in case of renovation. [[15.20]] So far, ten thousand families living in small towns have claimed some HUF 50 billion. The company also has an interest rate subsidy: if you buy a flat, you can use the interest rate subsidy in the order of HUF 10 and HUF 15 million, and after a loan of HUF 5 and HUF 7.5 million if you upgrade. It is a new option from 1 January of this year, so that VAT can be refunded in the settlements affected by the village CSOK in the order of HUF 5 million. Renovation of lower roads is another large circle of support. In 2019 and 2020, a total of HUF 100 billion was renewed 800 kilometres for four- and five-digit trips. In my constituency, 15.5 kilometers were renewed within the framework of this program. Perhaps the most important programme for mayors is to support small-scale rural development aimed at improving the quality of life. In 2019 more than 5 000 beneficiaries spent nearly HUF 60 billion on 16 aid areas. In my constituency 118 applications were met, worth 1.37 billion: 19 settlements received medical equipment, municipal roads were renewed worth HUF 140 million, events strengthening identity and community spaces were supported by HUF 61 million, and tools for the maintenance of public areas were implemented in HUF 118 million. I point out this because this form of support is increasingly important with the fall in unemployment and the disappearance of public workers, so that modern means can be used to maintain public areas. But service apartments, kindergartens were renewed, sidewalk construction, mayor's offices were decorated with this support. In the 2021 budget, HUF 90 billion is available for this purpose, including the village road base, the renewal of the side road network and small-scale improvements. The funds for home creation are marked in the budget, almost HUF 250 billion, including the village CSOK. We consider it an important step forward that the amount added to the innovative, one-man social care system created by Bertalan Kemény is now 4 million 479 thousand forints per service. So there is a clear government intention, there is determination, but success also requires professional implementation. Vice-President Alpár Gyopáros has done excellent work because they have taken stock of the cumbersomeness, slowness and inanimateness of the European Union support system, and have corrected them: there is a fast tender system, it takes just over two months to decide, they provide pre-financing, which is also a great help to the municipalities. In general, we are talking about two things in this year's budget: the protection of the economy and the maintenance of the epidemiological preparedness. It is safe to say that this package also serves the protection of the economy, and it is easy to see that the investments involved are stimulating the economy. However, in an unusual way, I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that this will also contribute to the maintenance of the epidemiological preparedness. Why do I think that? If we consider the causes of the successful epidemiological defense, the government measures taken in time are certainly there, the preparedness of the health care system, the discipline of the Hungarian people, but let us also mention the Hungarian settlement network; the Hungarian settlement network has also contributed. We do not have megapolises, and you can also see on the epidemic maps that in this settlement network, where the number of contacts is clearly less, it was easier to defend, and indeed in the Hungarian villages it was possible not only to survive, but also to live during the epidemic. When we talk about villages, we always mention the name of a person, and I do this: the famous sentence of Péter Mihályi, economist, sounds like:. The village is a medieval tradition, why should it be maintained? Most of them are less than 300 people, unviable. Now, for example, let me cling to the latter, the word "viable" and in a different interpretation, I specifically say that the Hungarian village is viable, and in the event of an epidemic it is almost only viable. I'm one of those people who thinks that if we go to the same place in the world, we carry it the same way, if we have to, if we don't have the products, and we change hands with the services, then we can have another epidemic. In such a way, I say that with every penny we spend on maintaining this settlement network, in which there are a significant number of small settlements, we also maintain a settlement network that represents viable villages and which can be lived in the event of another epidemic. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-86	Thank you very much. Welcome. Congresswoman of the Democratic Coalition, Congresswoman Anett Bősz. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Six years before the summer break, the budget will be presented here in Parliament, which you have always been proud of, but I say that now that we are at the very beginning of the economic and social impacts of the human epidemic, this is not necessarily a sign of courage. 2020 is only the beginning of the economic downturn, and what is important in particular is that we start with the responsible and consensual restructuring of this year's budget, and then we can continue with the draft budget for 2021. We do not yet see clearly that the epidemic will return, we do not know that it will return, if appropriate, during the autumn period, to a quarantine that will lead to the economy slowing down again. At the moment, we can only hope that when our schools, a kindergarten, a nursery, and a nursery are barely restarted, that the newly deprived families will soon have new jobs created on a market basis, income from which they can support their children, and the situation is ready that they do not need the help of the state or the municipalities. We have only estimates that tourism will be able to recover this year. We can also only estimate when sectors that have almost completely stopped or slowed down to a dangerous degree will start again to a sufficient degree. I think it is our shared responsibility to work on these re-launches and to make as responsible decisions as possible. I am aware that, thanks to its two-thirds power, we cannot at this moment change the fact that, in the autumn session, when the second or no god is already available, we should decide how the fiscal corner numbers will turn out in 2021, but if that is the case, then I would like to share a basic principle or some practical aspects with you. [[15.30]] Basically, I think that what Minister Mihály Varga said in his exposé is that he is counting on an increase in GDP of 4.8 percent, a deficit in public finances, an inflation rate and a fall in government debt, I respect very much the optimism and professional experience of the Minister and the Secretary of State, but these cannot be clearly stated in this situation. The OECD forecasts that our country will drop by at least 8 percent with a 6 per cent contraction in the global economy and that we can estimate a budget deficit of up to 10 per cent and also a shrinking labour market. Although I myself consider the OECD's disdain to be excessive, I think that somewhere between the two we should be able to find an estimate that will certainly be closer to reality and on which we can really plan a responsible budget. I think that we are all here, in this House, to help our country to prosper, and to put not only our speeches, but also our amending proposals, so that we can get out of this crisis as easily as possible. I have stated these thoughts because I think that, although we are not engaged in a national economy, but in a budgetary debate, we cannot ignore the fact that I believe that there is no one among us who can tell us, even in September or December this year, what data this little open economy will have to offer for a world economy that is in real trouble. By the way, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to respond to these thoughts, because I think that is what we should be able to discuss above the budget debate, what numbers we can think at all and what we can farm from. Minister, he has provided commendable figures in the areas of retirement, education and health funding, which he has confirmed in his recent reaction. I am pleased, however, that, compared to this year's plans, they want to increase expenditure in these sectors, but I did not express my concerns about the performance of the national economy, the shrinking labour market or the main figures of the budget; I think that we should be able to think about this, and we should also be aware that if these plans fail, then what are the minimum budgets from which we can still manage. That is why I am arguing that it is not a good thing that we will have this budgetary debate so early, as in the last five years, but I would like to turn to a more detailed and still general set of comments, because there are fundamental differences in the approach of the government and the opposition, which I think it would be much more important to have more detailed debates and even to the depth of workshops. I regret that, at the moment, this is not possible in the Commission sections, at least that is what I have seen; it would be good for this to change. The restoration of revenues from the central budget is largely carried out with the long-term contribution of the municipalities. The withdrawal of the car tax will remain permanent, staying with us for years, until 2024, which is worrying because the citizens will choose new local leaders, and if, for the whole cycle, the message that local leadership has been unable to finance its own operating costs in many cases, apart from its own faults, is a very ugly political game, and I have yet to put it very delicately in relation to the government's current policy. Although they may say that I am young and that I have not seen many things, I certainly have not seen that the results of the elections are to be beaten by the central government in some way in local leadership. I would also like to say to you that, although it may be possible for time and time to think that the destruction of the municipalities is equivalent to the destruction of the political actors leading the settlements, I would argue that the destruction of the municipalities is equivalent to the destruction of the lives of the citizens, and ultimately means no respect for the decision of the citizens. However, it is a clever solution in the budget not only to list negatives, that some revenue losses are being compensated by the government, but it is worth examining the effects of this in a short time, in my opinion, because there is a chance that the retail tax will carry out further destruction in the SME sector, which is already affected by the crisis, not to mention that in many cases there is a possibility that such retail taxes will be transferred to consumers. If, at the moment, they did not have time for impact assessments because of the rapid deception of the crisis, it would be worth reconsidering this in a few months' time. In order to compensate for losses in government revenues related to consumption and retail payments, it is essentially unique. Instead of the previous HUF 43 billion, HUF 160 billion is expected during the payment of the solidarity contribution. I am aware that you argue that the payments made by individual players are lower than before, but at the same time increased the number of contributors, and unfortunately, there are also municipalities that have been included in the group of contributors, which, in the past, have to go to the wall when planning their operating budgets. In fact, sometimes there are settlements on the brink of a solidarity contribution obligation that have traditionally expected some central budgetary revenue to cover their operating costs in full. I think that in this form there is no need for further explanation as to why it is not acceptable to the opposition. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are saying that the policy of austerity is a bad direction and that measures for growth will be able to solve crisis management. In this, as a liberal, I can agree with you if this does not affect the growth of borrowing and/or public debt. I don't think you'd like that, either. This is the part, Mr. Secretary of State, in which we cannot agree, because the government has apparently made it awkward for the public not to be directly burdened with burdens they immediately feel in their pockets, i.e. it seems that you cannot be accused of preparing for austerity or of making cuts, but at the same time the settlement of the revenue side of the budget involves measures that will eventually reach the citizens' pockets. I have already talked here about taxes on local governments and special payment obligations, as well as retail taxes, and I would like to go into more detail on why I say that citizens' lives are directly affected by the withdrawal of funds from municipalities. It is important to know that municipalities have voluntary responsibilities in addition to mandatory tasks, such as the care of the elderly, the care of newborns, families, the support of homeless people, the operation of libraries and cultural events, the support of pensioners' clubs, NGOs, support for sports clubs, support for Olympics, paralympics, crime prevention, guarantees of the security of citizens, the operation of the youth self-government, i.e. the promotion of the democratic and social development of young people, and the voluntary municipal task of helping churches, but also the operation of local media. If operating grants fail, I know that you argue that there are available development resources, and in this you are right to develop, but also to live, and the tasks listed by me, which the municipalities once again volunteer to carry out, and in many cases the citizens do not even know, because the everyday part of their lives, I think that there is a very important difference of opinion between us, which will specifically destroy the lives of Hungarian citizens. I would like to go further, because the Democratic Coalition and the Liberals had a joint proposal, which meant that there should be a third 1% of personal income tax, which could be offered primarily specifically to civil society organisations that helped municipalities to mitigate the consequences of the economic and social crisis. I am very sorry that this did not find consensus at the Committee on Budgets, but at that time we promised our colleagues that we would submit a further proposal for the 1 percent that were not offered. I am very confident that the pro-government colleagues will be open to the fact that the significant, otherwise billions of forints each year that are not offered from personal income tax, in the framework of some kind of consensus with local governments, we would be thinking of delivering to civil society organisations which have undertaken essential tasks to curb the development of the social crisis. The last topic that I would mention and perhaps still fit into my time is the social groups that do not enjoy the government's support sufficiently not only during the crisis, but, to put it this way, in peacetime. [[15.40]] I think that the best way to describe the state of a society is how it treats the fallen and the minorities. This House has debated the setting up of the school guard this week, but I say that this debate involves a system error, namely that the pedagogical services have been completely destroyed due to serious underfunding, so that teachers have not been properly helped to avoid the formation of ghetto schools, that complete regions should not start to get so fussy that the middle class can almost rescue their children from there, and that you do not think there is a huge difference between us at this point in time, that it is only the setting up of the school guard that can solve the everyday lives of children of desperate social groups, where appropriate, of school violence. I think that this is not a solution, and the solution here, as my fellow Member, István Hiller said, is that the approach of the education system to the current government is inadequate, so I would like to argue that those who serve the school system outside teachers are not properly appreciated. And I believe that social cohesion, by the way, is indeed served by at least this amount, which you now intend to set up for the school guard, to allow those social groups to catch up after many decades, which have always been released from their hands. Allow me one last thought. I think there's still some wounded. I have traditionally taken account of the principle of equal dignity and equal treatment here, and of the budgets that you have submitted so far, I can say that whether people with disabilities or those living in spectrum disorders have suffered such serious disadvantages in this society from childhood onwards, and unfortunately I do not see the steps taken or the guarantees of this in the next year's budget, in which not only everything needs rethinking, but I do not think we can say that we are living in the same Hungary. I think that this should be the first thing to change, that this country, this country, has the same face for all of us. That way, you would be credible in wanting to be a government of citizens, a government of families. I think we need to become everyone's government. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-11-88	Thank you very much. Before I pass the floor on to you, Honourable Parliament, I would like to inform you that the provisions on certain house rules are set out in Article 10/2014. OGY Decision 36. § 6 of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party on the Central Budget of Hungary for 2021 T/10710. During the general debate on the legislative proposal No 35 minutes of the remaining time frame for today's sitting will be transferred to the Fidesz Group. And now we have further contributions from representatives. Congressman Richard Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, The parliamentary debate on Hungary's central budget will take place as usual in early summer, but we are in an unusual situation, because the protection against the Crown Virus has brought new aspects not only to the government but also to the Members in the process of drawing up the draft budget. Many of the issues have already been addressed by my fellow Members today and yesterday, so as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, allow me to talk about the EU dimension of the budget with an eye to its practical appearance. Ladies and gentlemen, The importance of EU transfers in relation to the epidemic situation, and notwithstanding that, I believe that they are of particular importance in the draft before us. Following the presentation of the budget, there were also opinions in the press that, for example, this budget was opaque. I am convinced that this statement is not true, especially in the case of EU transfers, that this is unfounded. It's just because, for example, of the 19th century. In addition to the structural part of the EU's development, which is set out in section XLVIII. The basis for the anti-epidemic aid from the European Union is designed to keep separate the expenditure, the revenue from which the non-refundable aid from the EU budget is granted to Hungary in connection with the coronal virus epidemic. At the same time, it is important to note that the EU development section also follows or responds to the specific situation caused by the coronal virus. The operational programme for the development of human resources, which is simply shortened to the EFOP, does not only contribute to social inclusion and strengthening the social role of the family and strengthening social inclusion, but also supports the measures needed in the emergency situation caused by the Covid-19 epidemic in order to slow down and eliminate the spread of the epidemic. Thus, in practice, we have been able to make use of EU transfers in two ways in order to combat the dangerous consequences of the epidemic in the budget before us. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also apparent that the amount of Union transfers in the budget is lower than in previous years. Well, in the previous EU seven-year budget cycle, the operational programmes had a total of almost EUR 25 billion, while next year we can count on EUR 3.5 billion. This is not the waiting for the whole seven-year cycle, but the indication that there will be certain expenditures of the Hungarian budget, technical or competitive activities that will not only require the management of the advance accounts, accounts, projects and the necessary funding, but also the future, however the EU's seven-year budgetary negotiation process develops. It is right, therefore, that the rapporteur's attention was extended to this. Ladies and gentlemen, Another positive ambition of the budget is that the government pays attention to the support of direct EU programmes. I believe that the HUF 3 billion included in the stand-alone article will be a good place, since the period between 2014 and 2020 has shown that our country will benefit from direct-led EU programmes to a lesser extent than the proportion of its population. I therefore believe that there must be adequate support for the preparation of proposals or the financing of self-forces for which, unfortunately, self-force or resources for preparation cannot always be provided alone. I note that we have also discussed this on a number of occasions at the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, Until the EU seven-year budget can be adopted, a number of questions will remain pending. It should also refer to the processes that have progressed, in principle, independently of the new budget, but in close unity with it. Here we will need great attention and effort to achieve results because of its impact on the Hungarian budget, and I believe that it is important to say a few more words about these too. The consultations on the multi-annual financial framework for 2021-2027 were also soon linked to the recovery plan. According to the Commission communication published at the end of May, EUR 500 billion of grants and EUR 250 billion of loans were planned, which, together with the budget of 1100 billion, constitute a package of EUR 1850 billion. [[15.50]] These are nice numbers. However, it should also be noted that neither the adjusted EU seven-year budget nor the so-called new draft will benefit the Hungarian budget. As Minister of Finance Mihály Varga stated at the EU finance ministers' video conference on Tuesday, Hungary is of the opinion that the European Union should act fairly and proportionately to mitigate the damage caused by the coronal virus epidemic. The Commission's allocation of funds has been severely restricted by a number of Member States with lower income levels. We need a real recovery programme that also takes into account the fact that restoring countries with disciplined fiscal policies, but with a less developed, open economy, could be a much greater burden later on than for example for Hungary. Despite the decisions that threaten Hungary in Brussels, I believe that we can make progress even in this uncertainty, and I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance for that. Dear House, Whatever the fate of the EU budget, it is important to say that we are not only struggling in Brussels to achieve a better position in Hungary, as we have done, I remind my fellow Members of this before the decision of the 2014-20 EU seven-year budgetary framework, but, after the epidemic, I still believe that we are paying serious attention to developments in a rather difficult economic situation. In 2021, the total expenditure of domestic and EU developments will be HUF 3653 bn, which shows a small correction compared to this year, as EU development expenditure will be reduced from HUF 1694 bn in 2020 to HUF 1600 bn in 21. However, it is also important to say that it is safe to say that the government is spending HUF 90 billion more, or HUF 387 billion, on very nice road and rail development for my heart than this year, because the Hungarian accumulation and budget for road development There are 203,7 billion for rail development and 183 billion for rail development. But let's not forget the bikers, whose options, I understand, can be improved with HUF 9 billion. For my smaller Patria, Zemplén and Abaúj, tourism is also very important, and here I mention the 45 billion in the tourism development target, and the budget, as mentioned by my fellow Member, provides HUF 90 billion for the development of small settlements in the framework of the Hungarian village programme. All of these, along with many other items, are remarkable amounts, I have calculated: HUF 2050 billion will be issued, which, in addition to the reduced EU funds, I believe is a major opportunity for us, especially for Hungary in the countryside. Ladies and gentlemen, Zemplén and Abaúj have been winners of a number of important investments in recent years, it is enough to mention that we have renovated our railway, the Sátoraljaújhely-Mezezőzombor line, which has supported, for example, climate goals, built and built a highway towards Košice, so our cooperation with V4 will be strengthened, as well as our region is strengthened from a tourist point of view: castles, castles and various tourist attractions have been built from Füzér to Tátoraljaújhely. Just highlighting the EUR 29 billion support for the railway line, I think that we in Abaúj and Zemplén have set a good example of what is worth using EU and domestic development resources. Therefore, I am convinced, Mr Secretary of State, that whatever the next EU budget is, we will be able to meet the new priorities and objectives in the same way, and I believe that this can be said on a national scale. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-11-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Opponents' speech. A representative of the LMP, Congressman Csárdi, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I think that we need to talk over and over again about the budget for 2021 about municipalities; because I think that we have heard nice sentences, that the funding of the municipal chapter is increasing by 122 billion. With this, the government will try to explain everything once and for all. Let's start the story from the beginning. We all know that there is an epidemic in progress, as a result of which there is an economic crisis, and it is expected to continue in the future. It is worth looking at what the authorities have done, what they have done to protect themselves from the epidemic in general. I think that it is not possible to deny, to deceive people, and we must be able to say that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide older people today. I think it's right, it's up to the local authorities to quarantine those who are partially sick or risky in terms of treating their patients. And yes, the municipalities have also undertaken to carry out the task of providing protective supplies to the population, because the government has not done so. When we talk about the financing of municipalities in the budget, let us not forget that these tasks, including disinfection and all the tasks that the municipalities have done to prevent the epidemic, cost money. Yes, please respectfully, it costs money. And compared to that, it is worth considering that the government has decided to divert beyond these expenses that I have just mentioned, the remaining part of the car tax, compared to this, the government has decided to make parking free of charge, and compared to this, the government has decided that businesses can use municipal public areas free of charge. I am not here to open a debate on whether the outcome of these decisions is right or wrong from a public health point of view. The only thing I would like to point out is that any decision I have listed is costing or loss of revenue to the municipalities. And I think we need to look at the numbers we see in the budget in this framework. And then I will also repeat, specifically for the sake of my fellow members of the Government, that there is 122 billion surplus in the chapter municipal funding section. What is not mentioned in government communication is that 35 billion has been withdrawn; or I am sorry, I was wrong, because government communication talks about it, quite precisely Fidesz's lead speaker said that the protection in 2021 was ensured because this 35 billion HUF was taken from the municipalities. But let's keep going. They do not like to talk about the fact that the solidarity contribution has quadrupled. And I think that the scale of this is very serious, it's basically one-on-one, the increase that we find in the chapter increase. [[16.00]] So the surplus of the solidarity contribution is exactly as much as the budget spends more money on municipalities. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that municipalities with better economic opportunities are losing revenue, and small settlements, and settlements with the lowest tax capacity, are not expected to change their budgetary situation to a large extent. When I get this far in my speech, it is necessary to state that the epidemic mainly and largely affected larger settlements, mainly the costs generated in larger settlements, and that government decisions mainly caused a major loss of revenue in larger settlements. If we put these two factors side by side, it will be clear that the government has launched a frontal attack on larger municipalities with the budget for 2021. I think that this is not without reason, because if we look at the results of the municipal elections, we will see and we will be able to read from the data that the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance has suffered the greatest losses in the larger settlements. Ladies and gentlemen, here is Fidesz's response to municipal elections. We have heard that there will be consequences for this result, and at the moment, the quantifiable, tangible results of this result can be found in the draft budget for 2021. There's no need for that to happen. You spend thousands of billion forints to your friends through prestige investments. It would not be necessary to do so, but you are, in a well-prepared manner, constantly reducing the powers of the municipalities, because you feel precisely that the social dissatisfaction that is virtually visible among the inhabitants of the cities can materialise in the municipal elections and in the operation of the municipalities. Therefore, you have decided to try to use powers, severely reduce decision-making opportunities, and now, by narrowing down their funding, to disable larger self-governments, and then the government machine, the Origo or any other pro-government medium, will be able to lead by saying that, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition cannot run a city. These city councils were really out of their league during the plague. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: her district introduced the pandemic allowance. Annex VIII is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. The district also paid a social contribution to the economic victims of the epidemic. But so did the I. district, as well as all the districts along with the capital city. Reductions have been introduced in economic areas that, for example, the rent of municipal rentals has not been paid, slid or reduced in recent months. The municipalities have done your job, my honourable pro-government colleagues, and, as they say, this is gratitude. There's money in this budget for Chinese rail development for millions a meter. I stand about four metres from the Secretary of State, and if I were to be financed by the Budapest-Belgrád railway, that I would walk back and forth, then the road back and forth could bring us a profit of tens of millions forints. This is how expensive the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is. But beyond the fact that this investment will never pay off, it will also show us what we can think of other ways of financing our favourite oligarchs, when you are encrypting the investments made from our common taxforints, and you have money to pay for your small taffirunging. I think it is only a matter of political will that it is the people who work for them, and it does not matter whether they have money to finance government or opposition governments. The municipalities have proved themselves in recent years. The Hungarian government does not deserve to put them in such a position. Therefore, I should say in a friendly way that I would like to ask the government to speak as an opposition representative in a way that I demand of the government, but I still say that they should think of their conscience. Think of the people in your constituency as I do, and note that putting the municipalities in such a serious position will not make it impossible for their political opponents, but will cause difficulties for the people who live there. Let us not forget that social care is a mandatory municipal task, let us not forget that elderly care is a mandatory municipal task, and let us not forget that the provision of public catering also goes through the organisation of the municipality. But that list could be extremely long. When you cause economic difficulties, in extreme cases, you put local governments in a close-up situation, and you take the resources away from these tasks. It is worth looking at the process that has unfortunately been going on since the change of regime, which shows that less than a third of the local government's GDP-related costs have been reduced since the change of regime. Notice that dozens of tasks and powers have been lost by the municipalities. At the moment, we stand to be sure that in Budapest, the Fidesz-KDNP government has made decisions that have swept away all obstacles to the economic interest groups behind the political community of Fidesz. In comparison, the budget for 2021 has been submitted, which will continue this process. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This process must end once and for all. The parliament of Hungary cannot afford to adopt a budget that puts hundreds of settlements in an extremely difficult position, which only makes up for this by tender, I would like to waste a sentence for small settlements. I think that the local government is perfectly opposed to the fact that you are trying to provide funding to the elected municipalities by hand through a personal contact system. Because that's what this is all about, and we have ten years of experience with the application system. You are avoiding opportunities to provide general funding to municipalities, which is equally accessible to government-led and opposition-led municipalities. That's why they came up with the weird tender method where, if you're good with the government, you can get money, if you're not good with the government, then we're gonna take away the development money that we've already decided on. [[16.10]] That's what happened to VIII, isn't it? and IX. During the period of the pandemic, one lost more than HUF 1.1 billion in this way, and the other lost HUF 400 million in this way. I think that this procedure, this exercise, can't go on like this. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It would be my request that they feel the responsibility that is on their shoulders when deciding on the budget, not to meet their political superiors, but to meet their electorate. I think it is absolutely shocking that they do not help the municipality with improvements such as the renovation of the Chain Bridge and, I know, there is 6 billion forints in a development of about 40 billion. We would like to renovate a bridge, and I am not only talking about the capital led by Gergely Christmas, but also the municipality led by Lord Mayor István Tarlós wanted to achieve it in the same way, but he also did not have the necessary amount of resources for it, for which I think that when István Széchenyi dreamed this bridge, he dreamed the unity of the nation, it is indeed a symbol of Buda's and Pest's union, and you who love and often apply the politics of symbolism must see that this bridge also symbolizes the unity of the nation. And how much funding is missing from this renovation, do you know by heart? About 25 billion forints. Can you tell us how much of Hungary's budget is? We know exactly how much money there is, and quite precisely Lőrinc Mészáros takes out about this magnitude of income from his companies every year, and its operations are largely due to the operation of the Hungarian state, and yet you are trying to prevent these renovations by saying all kinds of political horse-zung. I respectfully ask you not to look at local governments on a political basis, not to decide developments on a political or political basis, but to see what is in the nation's interest, where the nation's unity appears, and not to distinguish between small towns, big cities and villages, and to make no distinction between government and opposition-led municipalities, because I think it is even unworthy of you. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] Thank you very much.
u2020-06-11-92	On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő requests the floor. Here.
u2020-06-11-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the last, almost two days, much has been said about the burden of municipalities on the epidemiological situation and about the development of municipal funding in 2021. I am sorry that the arguments and facts that we have said in the last few days have not all the Members in the benches wanted to hear. I promise you that I will not repeat the information that has been given many times, and I will try to complement it so far in terms of the transformation of municipal funding. First of all, however, I must thank all local government leaders for being partners in the fight against the epidemic, whether they are specific actions or whether they have been accepted by the local government leader: they have to participate in the expenditure related to the control of a major epidemic. I think that this financial burden was proportionate. Why do I say that? This year's planned municipal revenues account for around 1 percent of the vehicle tax, the transfer of which we are talking, and in 2021, in the absence of a vaccine, we still need to maintain the epidemiological readiness, and we will be counting on this car tax next year, although, if I have already said one percent, only the expenditure known for the control of the epidemic exceeds 600 billion this year, this is more than 3 percent of the consolidated expenditure of the central budget; and I have not yet talked about what expenditure the government is paying this year or next year to restore the economy. The first word is, therefore, thanks to everyone who accepts that, in the present situation, we all need to take action to deal with this situation in health and economic terms, be it the central government, whether it be local governments, businesses, workers or families. What I have asked for, in fact, is that the Member has made these changes seem to be purely political. Then allow me, Congressman, to draw your attention to some facts. First of all, the financing system that takes into account the tax power of the municipalities was basically established in 2013, the so-called solidarity contribution tax that you are now attacking has been in place since 2017 [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] Mr. Congressman, you've been alive since 2017. The specific extent of this tax system, the solidarity contribution, is determined by a formula. There was only one municipality that did not pay its contribution according to the formula, and according to the budget of 21, it does not pay its contribution on the basis of the formula, this is Budapest capital, which receives a 15% discount from the solidarity contribution in 2021. I would like to record this before we bring in all kinds of political voices: 2013 when the so-called compensation system is in place, which means that in the case of state aid, we take into account the fiscal capacity of the municipality and 2017 when the solidarity contribution system is in place. So what's this about? What is behind the significant increase in support of the budget in the municipalities and also the solidarity contribution? Please, what is behind this is that we are trying to balance existing tax differences with a transfer mechanism by which the mandatory tasks are performed, not on a political basis, based on a formula. Mr President, if you look at the draft budget law of 2021 before us, you will see that the funding of municipalities with less than 22 000 tax powers is improving, regardless of their leadership, and you will see that, yes, the richer settlements must contribute to these burdens, I repeat: to a lesser extent than the formula in Budapest. Here is Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, you can ask why there is no such discount in Székesfehérvár, or why there is no such discount in Győr's case. I therefore think that the political aspect should be taken out of this issue. Then a professional aspect, Mr President: let me tell you about the distribution of the population and tax bases in Hungary. 17 percent of the population lives in the capital, 37 percent of the business tax base is here; 20 percent of the population live in county-righted cities, 24 percent of the business tax base is there; 31 percent of the Hungarian population lives in small towns and villages, 12 percent of the tax base is there. If you compare the tax power between the capital and the villages, then the difference is 5.6 times! If we compare the situation of county towns and villages, there's a three-fold difference. I have here an OECD statistics on how these territorial, material differences are in OECD countries. In Hungary, despite the changes in 2013 and 17 that have already been mentioned, there are still large differences, so when we talk about the need to carry out public tasks even if a municipality has little tax revenue, even if there is much, because kindergarten and nursery must be operated, there must be public lighting, then it makes sense to look at its tax power and to shape funding, among other things, the draft budget law 2021. I can reassure everyone that this proposal ensures that the resources needed for compulsory municipal tasks are available and that municipalities in poorer or more difficult financial situations can do better because of the security of their mandatory tasks. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-94	Thank you very much. We will return to your speeches. Congressman György Hubay, Fidesz, here you go. [[16.20]]
u2020-06-11-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I would like to share with you a few thoughts on the safety-related issues of the bill on the 2021 central budget before us in the next few minutes. As we can see, the budget for the 2021 budget is clearly the budget for economic protection, since its main objective is to reduce the negative effects of the coronal virus epidemic and to start the economy dynamically, of course, so that Hungary can retain its prominent role in the region and in Europe, which we have been able to achieve in recent years by working together. However, we cannot go without saying that the 2021 budget also seems to pay particular attention to the area so important to our country, i.e. the issue of security. Security expenditure will also be maintained and increased in the areas needed in 2021. This is the aspect that has been one of the government's priorities for many years, because without security there is no excellent economy, no peaceful society, and no peace, because peace and security are at hand. Today, Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe, and Budapest is one of the world's safest capitals. We would not be able to say that we have achieved this jointly if we had not gone along a well-thought-out and professionally structured government policy over the past ten years. It is also clear that the budget planning of the Government of Hungary has always been based on conscious, determined objectives and careful calculations, thanks most to the outstanding economic success and security of our country in recent years. The pro-government members of the Defence and Police Committee and the National Security Committee are pleased that security as a aspect will not be overlooked in 2021. We, who are members of these two committees, can see from week to week how hard efforts and sacrifices are being made by law enforcement, defence, or even our fellow countrymen working as part of the secret services in order to protect our country's security from pressure on us at the southern border and to maintain the country's internal security. I am convinced that security is an essential part of Hungary's strengthening and further growth, which is why spending on public security and defence will continue to be a priority in the budget of next year. Let us not forget that the expenditure on defence has increased more than three times over the last ten years compared to 2010, while the expenditure on law enforcement has increased significantly, as the total cost exceeds HUF 953 billion in 2021, which represents an increase of HUF 504 billion compared to 2010 and HUF 93 billion compared to 2020. Besides, we can't leave without saying what serious investments the government is making as part of the Ladies and gentlemen, I think the numbers just presented speak for themselves. It is clear and clear to everyone that, unlike the Socialist-Free Democrat governments, we are not only concerned with defence and police at the level of words, we are not imagining the appreciation of those working in the field at the level of the well-sounding sentences, and we are not lying about our large-scale developments in the morning, night and evening, just to quote a person who has been led down by the military and crime in Hungary. Initiated career models, a number of infrastructure improvements, the aforementioned defence and military development programmes or even the continuous replacement of the police's motor pool will help to work in a cultured and respected environment. Without an estimated human resource, there is no well-functioning law enforcement or defence system, so it is clear that we also need to pay particular attention to this. It is clear from our country's 2021 defence budget that the government considers strengthening public security, protection against international and domestic terrorism and illegal migration as a priority issue, the development of disaster protection in order to protect human life and values, as well as the detection and enforcement of criminal offences. In the settlements of the country, the permanent police presence is ensured primarily by the district agency service. In addition to the massive illegal migration that has been permanent for years, which is thus a constant challenge, effective protection of the state border is also guaranteed. In my view, maintaining public security is based on ensuring a continuous public police presence, and it is essential to keep in contact with local authorities and organise other public security forums and consultations. With regard to the results and objectives mentioned above, I would also like to recommend some figures to your attention. Expenditure related to the housing of professional staff and to professional careers proposed in 2021 amounts to HUF 17 billion of 181 million. The proposed budget for Home Affairs in 2021 amounts to HUF 857 billion and HUF 595 million, which was HUF 12,6 percent, i.e. HUF 96 billion and HUF 206 million more than in 2020. It's a very remarkable piece of data, in my opinion. And if all these positive results were not sufficiently supportive of good government policy, I would like to mention that the budget of the home affairs institutions proposed for 2021 is also increasing, since it is worth HUF 679 billion and HUF 685 million, which was 5.8 percent, with a figure of HUF 37 billion and HUF 292 million more than it was in 2020. On the basis of the above, it can also be concluded that the government also pays particular attention to national security services within the competence of the Ministry of Interior, so that their daily operation, personnel, preparedness and technological upgrades can lead to effective work without exception. I would also like to refer briefly to the Information Office, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, with a few brief thoughts. A few weeks ago, we discussed the Information Office's activities in 2019 in a closed session, which, we can say, was the first year when intelligence was fully under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Obviously, in a public debate, I cannot tell you too much information about the agency's activities and the details of the report, but I can safely say that my fellow Members have made sure that the office is on a very good track, that its staff are prepared and that its management is setting realistic goals against the organisation, which will make a significant contribution to Hungary's security and international success. Newly developed, modern and up-to-date reports, the number of significantly expanding foreign positions and the improvement of the ability to obtain information through technical developments will help the Information Office to become a key intelligence service in the region in the short term. The Office has significantly improved and improved its cyber security capabilities and has put building modernisation concepts on the table that can significantly reduce their operating costs in the event of implementation. I am also proud to say that it is not classified information that the 10 percent increase in salaries implemented this year has contributed significantly to the reduction of turnover and, in parallel, to the tangible rejuvenation of the stock. [[16.30]] In addition, the management of the Office will pay particular attention to improving working conditions and to keeping women and young people at work. A gymnasium, a recreation center has been established, their shooting range has been renovated and outstanding health services are operated. It is also an essential part of the development to create a new, modern educational building for modern training of future intelligence. The Information Office's budget for 2021 will ensure the effective and increasing quality of statutory tasks for the Office in this international environment of security challenges, in which we Europeans have to live in recent years. Its budget will increase by HUF 2 billion to HUF 23 million, i.e. 13 percent for 2021, after which it will finance its annual tasks from HUF 17 billion to HUF 580 million. It is undoubtedly a fact that a strong Hungary must have strong national intelligence, which requires the provision of highly qualified personnel. In order to achieve this, the planned budget, which included both the possibility of increasing numbers and the financial coverage of resources to ensure the professional staff of law enforcement bodies on the career path, was worth more than HUF 1.5 billion. Finally, but certainly not least, allow me to switch from civilian intelligence to military for some thought. For Hungary, the priority should be to support work in the field of military intelligence with appropriate budgetary resources, which, in my view, is provided at several points by the programme Zrínyi 2026. It can also be concluded that the approved appropriations of the Military National Security Service in 2021 include the resources necessary to carry out the basic tasks imposed by the National Security Act. The budget seems to allow room for the development of objects used by the personnel of the Military National Security Service, as well as the possibility to perform and continuously upgrade cyber security tasks, thus contributing significantly to the development of the Hungarian Defence Agency's intelligence capabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to multiply the word any longer, so, to sum up my thoughts, I would just like to say that we should do everything in the future to ensure that Hungary remains a peaceful and safe country as it has become over the past decades, and that we should continue to be one of the most prominent players in international tourist destinations, since everyone is happy to travel to a safe country. We Members of Parliament can contribute only by supporting the budget presented by the Government of Hungary for 2021, as it contributes not only to the development of our economy, support for families, or to the reduction of the effects of the coronal virus epidemic, but also to a high degree to the protection of our borders against illegal migration and to the maintenance of our internal security. In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2021. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-11-96	Thank you very much. We have a two-minute speech. Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to speak to you, Mr President, because your previous statement as a Member has inspired me to give you two thoughts. You said that grade zero, which is a very good language training, should be restored. There is no need to restore it, given that this training is still in place. Before 2018, until I was a Member of Parliament, I was the director of the Thuri György High School in Várpalota. We have continued this training since then, and we still have this training, but it is not called the zeroth grade. And I agree that it's not called grade zero, because grade zero suggests that this training is in front of primary school, but this training is in front of high school. So right now, right now, it's called a language prep class, very good training. Those who take part in this training do not go to high school for four years, but for five years, and, as is the aim of this training, they do learn very few other subjects, but in 18 hours they learn a foreign language, and this is a very, very good opportunity for them to take the exams with an established knowledge of foreign languages. So this training exists, a really very good training. And the other: as a German teacher, let me speak to him and defend the foreign language two-week foreign practice. Students who go out for two weeks after years of language learning into an environment where they do not speak Hungarian and enter a family where they are forced to use their foreign language skills can be a very good training. They're learning a lot in two weeks, and I think it's a very good training. I agree with Mr President that if students do not go abroad this way, but a group of four or five friends go abroad, and this is considered to be a party, and they speak a lot of Hungarian, then obviously this training does not reach its goal. That's where schools, teachers and professionals come in. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is what they do to choose the first variation. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-11-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am honoured that you have inspired my opinion to speak. Please understand that I have no way to reflect on this as president of the House. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, in two minutes!
u2020-06-11-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr Secretary of State has just spoken about the fact that the following year will actually bring Canaan to the municipalities. I think you may not have been told, but the reason for the transformation of municipal resources is not what you were talking about, but to punish the opposition-led municipalities. And it is very positive that in settlements of less than 22,000 people, funding may be increased; the municipalities led by the opposition are typically located among cities with county rights. So I think you've said exactly that, yes, the reason for these resources conversions is to punish the opposition cities. From the other side, of course, it is also a well-evolved direction to ask for money, and that if someone behaves well, they will receive money, and this, of course, includes the Fidesz municipalities, and of course, will include the opposition cities that will accept, where appropriate, the rules of the game that you set out. So I understand that suddenly justice has broken into the Ministry of Finance, but if I understand it correctly, this justice has not touched the Ministry of Finance in recent years, but only now. And I would like to add one more thing: probably everyone is stupid, all the people who speak in the municipalities, and no one understands this well, not even those who do it on a daily basis, because interestingly, they always say that they will get less money, this will mean operational problems for the municipalities, and you are the ones who keep saying that this is not the case. So in Hungarian: everyone is stupid, everyone is wrong, except you. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-11-100	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, DK, in two minutes!
u2020-06-11-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State has returned to us, even because I would like to continue our debate that we had earlier, within a few sentences. This is about the figures that have become controversial between us, who consider which is important for the development of the economy, and what situation they have brought about, including the fact that you have had a long debate. And the perception that this design shows is that they are expecting the slightest drop and the fastest bounce back is that the debate between the Ministry of Finance and the Hungarian National Bank has reached a point in this regard. However, this debate did not reveal how much you want to use the European Union funds, let us say we have the opportunity to make use of them. We believe that Hungary could make better use of this opportunity, and if it were better to take advantage of it, then just the small businesses I mentioned to you earlier that there is an opportunity to support small businesses under five, which are not included in the statistics, would not suffer as much in the future as they do at present, having no idea what is happening to them. Therefore, I think that the potential of EU transfers for crisis response should be used much better, but I must say that if you do not want this, you are not brave enough, and I could say that you are cowards in terms of facing the situation that, yes, this must be used and can be. Thank you very much. [[16.40]]
u2020-06-11-102	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai, please.
u2020-06-11-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very sorry that Congressman Attila Mesterházy has asked for the floor without paying attention to what I said, and beyond that he has not been sufficiently familiar with the draft budget law before us. I would like to say that in terms of municipalities, I did not say that there would be a Canaan. I have repeatedly said that I trust that we will be able to handle the crisis well, and that the expansion of the Hungarian economy in the coming years will be similar to the EU average over the past period. If so, the financial situation of the municipalities will also improve. I would remind the Member that between 2014 and 19 local industrialisation tax revenues, which constitute the main revenue of the municipalities, increased by 50 percent again, by 50 percent. The Member probably did not pay attention when I said that there was a substantive change in 2013 and 2017 taking into account the tax power of the municipalities in the current financing system. It had nothing to do with the election. And the congressman did not listen, and I do not see him listening when I say that this motion improves not the financing of settlements of less than 22,000 inhabitants, but the financial situation of settlements with a tax power of HUF 22 000 per head is improving. Please evaluate the bill before us in the light of these additions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-11-104	We return to the speeches by Members: István Bajkai, Member Fidesz.
u2020-06-11-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. First of all, I would like to thank the government, all of its staff, for the responsible work that has been required by the preparation and planning of the budget, especially in the context of this difficult, globally devastating coronal virus epidemic. After all, this unexpected, world-wide, changing and exaggeration-free coronal virus epidemic has put the Hungarian economy, employers, workers, families, to which the government had to take immediately important and effective measures. I believe and this is supported by indisputable facts that the government has responded without delay, with proper, firm and correct measures, to the eradication of the epidemic, which is one moment after another, and to the protection of society and the economy. The 2021 budget before us is also intended to preserve the values and achievements of our farming and the economy in difficulty and to establish the basis for further development and stability. In the next few minutes, as a Member of Parliament in Budapest, I would like to talk about, among other things, capital investments, the programme of the Budapest Healthy and without the need for completeness, some cultural initiatives. As you know, health and culture are not only an important measure of civilization, but also a creative and nation-sustaining force. Each budget is not just a system of plans for farming, but a philosophy of a government, a community of values, translated into the language of numbers and appearing in the budget lines. Predictability, security, family focus, value creation, building a work-based society, economic stability and development, transparency, national retention, health protection, care for disadvantaged people, civilised community life. Without completeness, these concepts could summarize the philosophy and basis of the budget. In my speech, I would also like to touch on the issue of support for national political programmes, which is highlighted in a strange light, given the 100th anniversary of the shameful robbery of Trianon. Over the last ten years, the Fidesz-KDNP government has multiplied its resources for national policy, and we are also planning to give priority to this sector in the draft budget for 2021. Finally, I would also like to say a few words of support for a sector that, due to the coronal virus, stopped overnight, almost entirely. This is the performing arts sector. And now I would like to talk more about the substance. The Róheim villa, located at 45 Hermina Road, was built in 1900 on the basis of the plans of Mano Pollák, by Samuel Róheim's wood dealer and wife. The villa has neobaroque style marks. From the end of the 1960s, the building was managed by the State Institute for Disabled People, who built an elevator for the rear facade, as well as internal modifications. Most people don't know the Róheim fork from here. 102 years ago, on October 31, 1918, in this building, the extremely wise and European-sized Prime Minister of Hungary, Count István Tisza, was murdered. One of the prominent statesmen in our history could not, or it may never, be revealed, because during the horror of the shameful and murderous Council republic, the Communist Korvin Otto took the investigative records into his possession and supposedly destroyed by the Red Károlyi government, who took on the bestowal of Hungary as almost a creed, did not want to defend them. The well-organized execution with assassins was rejoiced by the entire left at that time, along with the deluded, triumphed, since István Tisza was the person who represented power against the left-wing punch. István Tisza, as a real world-visioning and deep-historical statesman, well anticipated that where the left appears, he always has anarchy, destruction, upheaval, worthlessness, economic bankruptcy and anti-nationalism. And history has indeed justified István Tisza's psychic thoughts, as it has always happened without exception when the left came to power anywhere and at any time in the world. After the death of István Tisza, the left who dug the grave of the nation, with lies, decades of smearing politics and unhistoric twists, tried, regrettably, to incriminate István Tisza, who, as well as the faithful supporter of the Soviet Union of Stalin, the red Count Károly Marx, who was also known for his depraved way of life, said Sigmund Freud, who could hardly be accused of right-winging: "I have never been an absolute believer of the ancient antique, but I doubt that he could be considered a sign of political wisdom, that the smartest of many Counts would be killed, and that the dumbest of them would be made Prime Minister. Yes, generations have grown up during the education policy of the left so that they have hardly heard of István Tisza, or, if so, only in lies. On the other hand, anti-national Michael Károlyi erected a statue, and the almost celebrated gathering place with the Communists was the SZDSZ, which had never seen the depth of education. I have already said in this Parliament, I apologize if I repeat myself, but the two components of the left, MSZP and DK, have not yet been confirmed by their legal predecessor, because, at the time of the MSZMP, Tibor Sztanykovszky was granted a special pension in 1963 by the then party leadership, given that he was involved in the action against István Tisza. [[16.50]]
u2020-06-11-106	I am interested in the Member's discussions, but this is the debate on the budget. So, please, according to the house rules, I'm really historically interested in what you're saying, but please tell me how this relates to the 2021 budget. Maybe you should go to the budget. It's my duty to draw your attention to the house rules.
u2020-06-11-107	Thank you very much. This is also part of it, since the support of this fork is on the budget line.
u2020-06-11-108	I'm looking forward to it as soon as the congressman gets here, so get there. [[Defiance.]]
u2020-06-11-109	The next paragraph will deal with this, Mr President. You can see that this paragraph is making a fuss. The reconstruction and exploitation of the Róheim villa was encouraged by the government and previously declared in a government decision. With regard to the authorisation design documentation submitted, the construction permit issued became final on 25 May. In the draft budget for 2021, Mr President, now listen to me. [[Defiance.]] With a HUF 4.2 billion appropriation, the monument villa will be one of the jewels of Budapest again, and after the reconstruction it will be a worthy home for the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board. Another part of Budapest's investment is the Efficient Budapest programme. Before 2010, left-wing governance took over 600 billion forints out of health care. In 2017 the Civic Government launched the program "Efficient Budapest" program. This started the biggest hospital development program in the history of the capital and the Central Hungary region, exclusively from Hungarian budgetary sources. More than 700 billion forints of center hospitals will be established by 2026 in the framework of the, the South-Pest Centrum, the North-Pest Centrum, the New St. John's Hospital and Specialist of the North-Central Buda Centrum, and 11 other national medical institutions and 13 hospitals, including church institutions and 32 outpatient clinics, providing a higher standard of health care for 4 million inhabitants. During the coronal virus epidemic, we have seen that there is nothing more important than a sound health infrastructure on its feet. To this end, the work of health professionals, whom I would like to thank for their almost superhuman achievement over the past period. It would be a long time to mention what improvements have been made in the last three years in the framework of the. Healthy Budapest, but to mention only a few: IT developments, the acquisition of medical technology, the planning of the development of many hospitals and clinics, including the National Institute of Pediatrics of Pál Heim. The nearly HUF 80 billion foreseen in the draft budget for 2021 is expected to be used for the following purposes. Developments in outpatient care are completed by the procurement of planned medical technology tools and IT instruments in the I, XXII, VIII. in the district, Budakeszin, Biatorbágy and Pilisvörösvár, and continue and complete the developments planned for the IV, XIII, XIV, XVI. in the district of Dunakeszin, Gyömrőn, Monoron, Szigetszentmiklós, Vecsesen and Veresegyháza. Larger-scale architectural investments will begin at the Hegyvidék Specialist in the Northern Central Buda Centrum Hospital, II, XI, XVII, XXI. the renovations of the district and the hospital in Cegléd and Vác. As a result of the development of the program, hospitals and specialized clinics will be established and renewed, which will be prepared for a new naturally undesirable epidemic, such as immediately isolated classes and building wings, in addition to their respective supply tasks. Thanks to the developments, in the near future XXI. The quality of patient care is achieved in the first century, the satisfaction of patients and the working conditions of health workers are further improved. A few days after the 100th anniversary of the Trianon Robbery, it is not possible not to remember the national policy measures that the Fidesz-KDNP government has implemented in the last ten years. Just to mention a few, it has contributed to the sustainable functioning and continuous activities of 5,000 Hungarian institutions and organisations from abroad. The National Assembly accepted the amendment of the Citizenship Act, which allowed for the simplified localization of Hungarians abroad, thanks to which 1.1 million Hungarians from abroad became our countrymen. In 2010 the Unlimited!-program was launched in order to ensure that all young people in public education reach the Hungarian population areas of neighbouring countries at least once with the support of the Hungarian state. During the 2019-2020 academic year, hundreds of thousands of students were already supported, while between 2011 and 2018 the number of traveling students was 300,000. In the draft budget for 2021, thanks to the HUF 5.2 billion planned to support the Unlimited! programme, it is hoped that more young people will be able to visit foreign areas. In addition, an additional HUF 17.5 billion would be allocated to support for national policy purposes. This amount allows the development of the kindergarten program in the Carpathian Basin, the program in Hungarian, and the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme in Hungary. The coronal virus epidemic has put our art institutions in a particularly difficult position. With the entry into force of the restrictions, almost all revenue was lost, and the existence of artists and employees working here was threatened. Life and theater go hand in hand. Perhaps it was only at the time of the siege of Budapest that the lectures had to be canceled. It is our duty to reduce the damage caused by the plague as soon as possible. The government regards the actors in the art sector as a priority, and therefore plans to increase the amount of the 2020 law from HUF 17 billion to HUF 830 million in 2021 to HUF 21 billion for HUF 139 million. This represents a surplus of more than HUF 3 billion. In my constituency there are three priority institutions that can be considered as highly culturally important. One is the world-famous Hungarian State Opera House. The Opera House on Andrássy Road is being renovated. The Pest Hungarian Theatre in Erzsébetváros has been a symbol here in the district for more than a hundred years. The most important tasks are the diverse representation of the diversity of stage genres, such as classic and semi-classical dramatic works, the presentation of Hungarian and foreign contemporary plays, the presentation of children's and youth productions, and, in pursuit of the achievement of the civic theater idea, the European and the world's modern theatrical works reflecting the civic ideals, and the repertoire of the best stage works of Hungarian civic development. There is also the Budapest Operetta Theatre in Terézváros, whose history dates back over a hundred years. The country is unique in processing Hungarian and international operettas and musical pieces. The resources foreseen in the draft budget can be established and facilitate the implementation of the professional tasks, the artistic concept and the smooth functioning of these institutions. I trust that the audiences will soon be full again, and the high-quality Hungarian culture, filled with inimitable, deep understanding and artistic message, will be able to flourish undisturbed. Ladies and gentlemen, By adopting the budget before us, I believe that we will be able to restart the economy after the coronal virus epidemic, and that the operation of our farming, jobs and work-based society will once again return to its revival and continued growth, as usual during civil governance. In order to do this, we need investments that, as we have just said, are also included in the programme "Healthy Budapest." Many times the Hungarian society has experienced how the left is distorting or paralyzing the formulation of institutions, budgets, defence capabilities, and how it undermines our financial and organizational traditions, our value-building processes. It has been said many times today, the left has already demonstrated what it is capable of: bankruptcy, destruction, lie classic: morning, night, evening, salutation, dissipation, unlimited service of foreign false consultants and institutions, reduction, dissipation and looting of health resources, social insensitiveness. [[17.00]] Based on the historical experience and common sense of our recent history, we will do the right thing if we support the Hungarian government's eternal task, the budget for national survival. I therefore recommend to all my fellow Members the adoption of the budget with respect and good heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-110	State Secretary Tamás Vargha asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó emphasized on several occasions, in several places, that we conduct, do Hungarian foreign policy with Hungarian interests, and that national security services, including the Information Office, play a key role in protecting Hungarian national interests and enforcing Hungarian national interests. That is why I am pleased that my fellow Member György Hubay has devoted time and space to the budget in the context of the budget negotiation, as it is important that the government also considers it important that our colleagues feel the attention and appreciation through improvements in order to keep up with the challenges of the Office. Not only as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, but regardless, a new political and security environment is emerging in the world around us. A new global competition will be launched, which will make it important to have strong and efficient independent civil intelligence, as the competition for investment will be strengthened. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned the increased role of cyberspace and its protection, and we believe that the provision of budgetary resources to the Information Office, civil intelligence, is a good investment, as was the decision taken two years ago to continue its work under the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, under the direction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There are many parallels in the operation of the Ministry and the Office. Today, with a fashionable expression, these synergies, which are strong, must be exploited, and this cooperation will enable effective national and foreign policy enforcement. It is also visible and we also perceive that the Office can respond well to changing security challenges if it has additional resources, and Mr President mentioned that the budgetary resources of the Office are increasing. Allow me to give you two more thoughts. I was very pleased that this morning a fellow Member spoke about a very important development for me, this development and investment in Székesfehérvár, which was carried out within the framework of the programme of the Árpád-ház, as a result of which, on the 800th anniversary of the publication of the Aranybulla, the exhibition of the work of the Árpáds will be opened in my constituency in Székesfehérvár in 2022. The project is the renovation of the former Cistercian Order, which is now the building of the St. Stephen's Royal Museum, whose importance is that this exhibition can be opened to the world in 2022, but today, after the coronal virus epidemic, it is also of particular importance that this investment protects jobs and creates jobs in Székesfehérvár, the museum of Székesfehérvár will be renewed as a result of a HUF 5.5 billion investment. And if my colleague Péter Banai spoke to me during the debate on the municipal budget, yes, Székesfehérvár would be pleased to receive such discounts as Budapest's capital from the solidarity contribution. But I would like to tell you that we in Székesfehérvár, when and after we learned about the budget, did not do nothing, but calculated how the changed budget affects my city, and I think that we really hear a political hysteria from the left-wing benches behind us, because the simple mathematics operation we did shows that the plus and minus side of the changes is not in balance with each other, but, according to the first calculations, my city receives 220 million forints more funding from the state than it did in 2020. The loss of business tax in cities, cities and smaller settlements will not be due to the government's decision, but due to the economic downturn caused by the Crown Virus, the business tax paid by companies will decrease to varying degrees in different cities to varying degrees, but this year. We know this, we are prepared for this, and we are confident that, as a result of effective defense, after winning the first battle against the Crown Virus, the economy recovers, recovers, and municipal revenues will also return to the level that they were in last year. Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I have read this budget before this House, and I must tell you that it has been a very instructive reading. It is educational, because at last I have seen what Hungary you want, what Hungary you imagine in the coming years, for you and your families. If I had to make a single sentence of judgment and opinion on this budget and presentation, then this single sentence says: this is an evil budget, and the government that is presenting this budget to the Hungarian Parliament is an evil government. You can smile under your moustache now, Mr. Secretary, but that's the thing. I will not give you the opportunity and the pleasure of discussing with me the elements of the budget in a row in the next few minutes. I will not spend this precious time arguing with each other about why you spend hundreds of billions of forints on your lie factories, meaningless and unnecessary visual investment, or even the recapitalisation and recapitalisation of your new national capital class. That will not be the case in the next few minutes, because I would only give you the opportunity in this debate, and an evil government does not deserve any escape. We must not be lost between the lines, but we must make a fundamental criticism of this evil proposal, clearly and clearly uncovering the government's inhumane plan as a budget. This is the only responsible opposition behaviour. And why I'm saying this? Because the fact is that this budget that we have here is not fair, it is not solidarity and it is not modern. The person who wrote this budget is interested in keeping Hungary a vulnerable and hopeless country. He was interested in continuing to be two kinds of people in this country, one that trembles for the sake of the gentlemen, and the other that had resigned to everything that was going on around him. This budget is not fair, because it helps the hardworking not in the work, but in the licking of the feet. It is not fair, because the pay for the work is not proportionate to the social and economic usefulness of the work, and it is not fair, because it is working on the welfare of the few, not the survival of many. [[17.10]] In contrast to this proposal, we want Hungary to have a fair budget that will help it to grow and leave no one on the side of the road. But this budget is not solidarity either. It's not solidarity, because anyone born in bad circumstances doesn't lift it. It's not solidarity, because anyone who gets into a difficult situation and trouble without his own fault won't help. And not in solidarity, because its primary objective is not to create general prosperity, but to maintain your corrupt system further, regardless of crises. In contrast to this proposal, we want a truly solidarity-based budget, which provides a helping hand to all those in distress and seeks a truly fair public burden. But this budget isn't even up-to-date. It reflects the thinking of the old world, and it does not want or intend to meet the challenges of the new ages. He doesn't give us a future because he doesn't invest in education. It does not give a future, because it does not care that Hungarians can live in a healthy and healthy environment, and it does not give a future, because it does not see this in its interest, because it does not expect thinking, but obedience, from its citizens considered to be subjects. In contrast to this proposal, we want a truly modern budget for Hungary, a budget that finally gives future and hope to this country that has suffered a great deal, which has suffered for ten years under its own governance. [[István Jakab is the vice-president of the Parliament.]] Minister Mihály Varga is one of Viktor Orbán's, if not his best Janichar. Janicsár, who was born as a Christian and Hungarian child, but then served the Turkish sultan, and now with this budget, he is going to attack his own troubled country. Reading this budget seems to me that you have completely lost touch with the everyday reality of Hungarian people. [[To Attila Philip:]] You, too, Secretary of State, who is now smiling in the front row and explaining to us without blinking. [[It's grumpy.]] Whether it is to my fellow Member Peter Ungár, to anyone else, to catch up with social workers, to settle their wages, or even to those people, to our fellow countrymen who care for their fallen and sick relatives in their homes. Do you even know what's going on in this country? Do you know how many lost lives are around you? Do you realize how many people in this country are watching with their arms spread out in the middle of the crisis and looking for their own future and their family's future? I don't think you have the slightest idea. You don't know that. The man who has been sitting there for ten years, in that particular red chair, and makes you believe, all of you, that he is smarter than all of you, that he is more talented than all of you, that he is smarter than they all are. He only knows one thing, but really, to wipe out all the talents that threaten his corrupt power around him. But I think you guys know that much better than I do. I'm telling you to be brave for once. Not in the way your boss tells you. Let them be brave indeed. Notice what this country, this nation, is really dreaming for itself, what tomorrow it wants for itself, for its children, for its parents and for its country. Notice that this people don't want to rule, but they won't continue to serve. And one more thing: note that if this is more than two, these people will come here, here, in this square, and not a few opponents in this field and in this House, but thousands and tens of thousands and tens of thousands. And no, they're not just gonna demand their reward, they're gonna demand their truth. These people will want justice, solidarity and a future for themselves. And yes, they will want your lying and corrupt world to end once and for all. Notice that before it's too late. Face that tyrant over there in the red chair, stand by the people and withdraw this budget. You, all 133. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-11-114	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State. Before you say anything, Congressman, the style is the man himself; I say it in the expression of "smile." Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-11-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman, allow me to start by saying that just because something sounds good doesn't mean it's true. You've made an extremely vocal statement. I'm very sorry that you couldn't support them with one fact. So I understand that you're looking for a better future because you can't find where you belong, but please note that in recent years the economic policy of which you have made a substantial part of the budget has resulted in an increase in employment of 840 thousand compared to 2010. After all, it has resulted, not in one or two social groups, but in the national economy as a whole, in the average salary of the population, the people from work, for nine years. increased. Please note that the minimum wage for 2010-2020, any group we look at, in real terms, for the childless, for children. The three - child minimum wage earners are not the ones you named, the three - child earners with minimum wage earners have increased their real income by two and a half times. And please note that the family support system, which has benefited from hundreds of thousands of families, has resulted in a much lower financial burden today than before, and the government intends to provide all families with assistance in order to prevent childbearing from being a financial impossibility. They characterize government policy, the priority of work and family, this is part of our social philosophy and economic policy. The proposed budget law of 2021, I believe, wants to support everyone who wants to work and who wants to ensure not only himself but also the long-term survival of the whole nation and the survival of our economic system in order to have children. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-11-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-11-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Just one thought. We are in the budget debate, and I thought that Mr Stummer, as President of the National Security Committee, would talk about the budget and the security of the nation, and he would comment on this. I was wrong, but instead we could hear an angry, demagogic outburst, which, I think, had nothing to do with the budget, the facts and figures of the budget. Peter Banai, my fellow State Secretary, has the honor of protecting the budget numbers, but we have not heard a word about it. If I may make one comment as a linguist, then the correct address is to address you, and not to you, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Attila Philip, Secretary of State, Ministry of Human Resources.
u2020-06-11-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, If I have been addressed here during this speech, let me say that I myself am always here with confidence and preliminary expectation when we can talk about the affairs of the country, and I have the opportunity to express my opinion, but the fact is that, in general, with regard to the area of social protection and child protection that I represent, I have always somehow left with the feeling that the triangle of opposition, numbers and credibility is somehow an increasingly unstable and fragile geometric figure, and I have not been able to feel any different here after the last few minutes. [[17.20]] So the truth is, when it comes to budgets, we can say the following in the budget, if you mention the issue of the care fee and the child care fee. In 2010 there was HUF 15 billion in the budget for this purpose. This means that there was a title, the care fee, and that's all they got. Today, this seems to have a total of HUF 58 billion of funding available under the budget of 2021. This means that this amount will increase from HUF 15 to HUF 58 billion, i.e. it will quadruple, thanks to the introduction of the weed, and the amount of the weed in 2021 will be 141 680 HUF, so there is definitely progress and there has been serious progress in this area. The other thing you mentioned was the earlier speech by Mr Ungár Péter, which also applies to wages. Here, let me have a number. I would like to say to you once again, as I have done before, that, in terms of wage increases, progress has been made in the social field in recent years. This year's 14 percent wage increase is included in the budget, thanks to which budget support for both public institutions and non-state human supporters is increasing. In figures, this appears to have been more than 100 per cent between 2010 and 2020 in this area, otherwise it has not reached 60 per cent in the previous eight years. I think that the basis for the appreciation of those working in this area is to talk about factuality in terms of numbers, because I think that this is how we can show our respect for them in the first place. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Happy, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-121	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ten years ago, thanks to God and the voters, I have been able to participate in this beautiful building, where we also hold the Holy Crown, in the debates, including in the budgetary debate. I have to say, in ten years, only the style has changed. In ten years, the government's budget that we generally support has simply failed to find common points with the opposition. Sometimes they even had some pretty good suggestions, which might have been eligible, but the style, as they perform, unfortunately, is changing more and more, and I've always wondered why it comes from, what it is due to. I, a Christian with a national creed, have the creed that the first is God, the nation, the country and the family, from this point of view I am looking at the budget, and from this point of view I must immediately realize that we cannot agree on these things anymore, so that if the budget that we have prepared is going ahead with these aspects, then we cannot agree in the first place. After all, if we say that religion, religious institutions, ecclesiastical institutions must be supported, we cannot agree with the opposition on the left either because they disagree. If we say that we should support the cross-border unification of Hungarians, Hungarians living outside our borders, just like those living within our borders, we cannot agree on this either. Nor can we agree that Hungarian families should be supported, since neither the single-key tax nor the family tax or the CSOK have been voted by the left-wing parties. So from this point on, if we start from this point of view, it is clear that this is why they have never been able to agree with anything that is in the Hungarian budget for ten years. What are they saying now? Congressman Stummer called it a budget of evil, an evil budget, according to him. I think this budget is evil because it supports Hungarians across the border, supports Hungarian families; that must be why it is evil. But some said, "I'm sorry, it was László Varju who said that the economic policy of the last ten years has failed." I would like to tell you then how the Hungarian government's economic policy has failed in the last ten years and what is expected in the coming years. I'd like to start with a quote. Endre Paksi, the singer of Ossian, says in one of his songs that the winner will be the one who stands still. I have to say that we Hungarians have survived many, many national tragedies, and the current budget shows that, not only will we stay on our feet, but we will improve, just as we have improved in the last ten years. The opposition says that the settlements will lose and that they were losers, that economic policy was bad. I come from an area that is not the richest area in the country. Indeed, unemployment in this area was significant in 2010, well over 12 percent, and there were a lot of poor people. 20 out of 23 municipalities were indebted to the municipalities. Over the last ten years, more than HUF 100 billion has been developed in this area, of which more than HUF 50 billion have been received in the last five years. And in order to reduce unemployment significantly by more than 60 percent, businesses that have successfully applied for more than 13 billion forints to create jobs and provide a better life for those living there. They said that health care isn't improving. The opposition is constantly talking about health care, that health care is in ruins. Please, when I became a Member of Parliament, in one of our cities, Mezőtúr, one of my first roads led me to the rescue station. I met two things at this rescue station. One of them was a Toyota Hiace type ambulance that had 990 thousand kilometers at the time, and they begged to leave the garage with it. I'm reporting that this rescue station came to the point that two weeks ago, we replaced a 90,000-mile-long ambulance with a brand-new one. This is a whole different quality, and the important thing is that we can keep it. This has been the result of so far's budgets. At this rescue station, I was under conditions that the rescue station itself was almost unlivable, and the workers were under unworthy circumstances. What's today? Today, please, with a HUF 130 million grant, the city has a beautiful rescue station that corresponds to the 21st century. Company. And not only did we change this one car, of course, but all the cars, and soon an even more modern car will arrive at this rescue station, which meets all the requirements of XXI. In the century. But to stay in health care, 20 out of the 23 settlements have been renovated in medical clinics and clinics. We spent over 600 million forints on it in the last ten years. Indeed, the Titans are very pleased that Csépán XXI. You can go to the doctor's office under centuries of age, but the Cibakházis, the Cherkeszőlős, the stirrups or the two-poos, where they last handed over the doctor's office. I think it is important for these medical clinics, of course, to include instruments. These applications included instruments, and this is an important thing. Of course, I trust that in the 2021 budget we will be able to renovate the medical clinics in the remaining three municipalities, because this is a very important thing, and I see that the budget has a resource for this. But let's go on to what the last ten years contained: in 15 of the 23 settlements, 17 nursery schools were renovated or built, or are in progress. We spent over 2.5 billion forints on this. [[17 .30]] Then let's move on, after the daycare, the kindergartens. We have renovated kindergartens in 12 settlements from nearly 800 million forints, and it was really nice to see the kindergartens either at the Master's residence or at Mezőtúr or in Oradea, where, for example, a playground is being built from the Hungarian village programme, how happy they are to take over the new buildings. But it is good to see the kindergartens in the city, of course, because we have also renovated kindergartens in Homok or Törökszentmiklós. And while we are talking about education and children, we must definitely move on to schools, because you always have the idea on the left that Hungarian education is not good. Please, I think Hungarian education is good. Nearly two billion forints came to the region for school renovation, including primary school and secondary school. Investment is ongoing, village schools have been renewed and urban schools have been renewed. I think that this result is very important. The renovation of the Teleki Blanka High School will soon start in Mezőtúr, the Hajnóczy High School has been renewed in Tiszaföldvár, but the renovation of the Rákóczi High School is on its way to Mezőtúr. And, of course, we also renewed rural schools. And to move on, because time is moving on: what else have we spent in the country? I have to say that from the 23 settlements all 23 settlements have been improved, even in the smallest settlements, there has been a development of over HUF 100 million in the smallest settlement in recent years. Tourist development is carried out in Cibakháza, Cserkeszőlő, Kunszentmárton, Mezőtúr from more than 1.5 billion forints. We will continue to do so in 2021, as the budget gives us the opportunity. But we have also made a lot of progress in the field of culture, as cultural homes have been renewed from more than a billion forints, in villages as well as in Szelévény, Armenian, Bipo, and cities. Of course, thanks to the Hungarian village program and other programs, we have renovated marketplaces, and we also thought that those who live in farms can be helped, because it is important that they can join in the life, so we helped the local governments buy cars in Cibakháza, Mezőhek, Szelesvény, Tiszainokán, Tiszakürt. Yet, one of the most important things in the countryside is the state of roads and sidewalks. We also tried to take the lead in this, as in Cibakháza, Cserkeszolo, Kuncsorbán, Kunszentmárton, Mezőtúr was renewed from nearly two billion forints. I think this is very important. And the cycling path network of the region is also developing well, as cycling paths are built in Cserkeszolo, Martfű, Mezőtúr. I think this is very important. But in order for the region to develop further and to move further further from the budget in 2021, it is important that the M44 road and M4 road are being developed in the region. This could really bring a lot of investors into our area, and I think that both roads will be completed by 2022. We have the hope that after the settlements have prepared their next ten years of development plan that the bridge between Csongrád-Csépa and the road leading there and the bridge connecting Szarvas-Mezőtúr can be built in the next ten years. This is an old desire for the two regions, as it would make transport between counties and between municipalities much easier. I hope that we can start building the M4 road in this cycle until the new village of Berettyó, and I believe that this is also possible in 2021. I think it is very important that the road to Szentes bypassing the Kunszentmárton be able to start this investment. This is also possible under the 2021 budget. Overall, I can say that in the last ten years, municipalities have been constantly receiving more and more resources, and they will receive more than HUF 100 billion in resources next year. I think it is important to tell you that the creed I have told you distinguishes us, nationals and Balliberians. I trust that, as in the past ten years, with the help of God, thanks to the work of the Hungarian people, the budget of 2021 will be exactly as good as it has been overachieved in recent years, and then there will be even more resources to help the Hungarian families, the Hungarian nation. I ask all my fellow Members to support the budget for 2021. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-11-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After a happy Congressman, István, it's hard to speak. I really think you should pray a lot in the next period. He's gonna need it. And then let's talk about the budget for 2021. The 2021 budget shows that the government not only abandons the groups and members of society that help the government when the wagon runs, but also when there is a real problem. Although the draft states that the coronal virus epidemic has overridden domestic economic and social processes, it is even stated that people's protection is being put at the centre, protection against a global coronal virus epidemic, it is not possible to see any meaningful measures in the social field. In a crisis, the social network must always be strengthened, not allowed to continue, especially if the government expects 4.8 per cent economic growth, 6.9 per cent income growth and 3 per cent inflation. And we have a wasted, wasted social net full of huge gaping holes, with tens of thousands of people lost and left without care or, you might say, on the side of the road in the last ten years. Because of the current epidemic and then the government's misdecisions, tens of thousands of people will be left without annuity or aid in the coming months, those who are not helped by the amortization moratorium, whose work has ceased overnight or who have not yet had adequate legal relations because they have not been announced. Only a well-enhanced social support system could help them. Compared to this, we see that the government does not touch anything in the 2021 budget, so much so that the bill setting up next year's budget does not affect either the social law, the child protection law or the family support law. The pension law is also being changed because of a technical clarification, but not because of the catch-up of low pensions or the increase in the minimum pension. So, apparently, according to the government, everything is in order in the social and 13-year-old family support system, otherwise it would not leave the legislation governing the area intact. But, above all, the government spends billions more on the elements of the family protection action plan for the better. One of these grants is car shopping support for large families, which is rising by 50 percent. This may not be the point of support that needs to be raised so much in times of crisis. Compared to this, there are minimal differences in macro-data, but no meaningful breakthrough can be seen. According to the tables on the consolidated expenditure of public finances, 57.5 percent of expenditure will be spent on welfare expenditure next year compared to 56.4 percent this year. According to nominal figures, there is almost HUF 700 billion more for welfare expenses and functions. At the same time, if we calculate the expenditure lines in proportion to GDP, we can see that this year 25.36 percent of GDP has achieved welfare functions, but next year it is only 24.79 percent. So even though the government is talking about protecting people, it also uses less in proportion to its rising GDP for welfare functions, education, health care, social care and so on. Let's talk a little bit about how we're doing on family support. As in previous years, the amount of baby bonds will remain unchanged for the future. There is no change in the support of children in need twice a year. In the case of family allowances with the right of the subject, and in the case of social benefits whose specific amount has not been increased for many years, the lines of expenditure do not fall everywhere, but do not change in a leap. This may be the effect of the continuation of the crisis, but the difference is minimal, and we already know that an increase in the amount of individual benefits is not expected. Here we have been saying for years that the government should touch the family allowance that has been unchanged for ten years. For families with one child, raise the family allowance to HUF 24 400. [[17.40]] For a single parent with one child, HUF 27 400, HUF 26 600 for a family with two children, HUF 29 600 for a single family with two children, HUF 32,000 for a family with three or more children and HUF 34,000 per child for a single family with three or more children. In the case of a permanently ill or severely disabled family, as well as a permanently ill or severely disabled child living in children's homes or social institutions and in foster care, it should be increased to HUF 46,600 and to HUF 51,800 for a single child who is permanently ill or has a severe disability. We keep saying it every year, and we also present this amendment that it should include a 13th month family allowance, which we say would be given to families at the end of August. What you always communicate about the early arrival of the family allowance for September in August is not enough. We say we should introduce an extra family allowance to help families. Here, in return for the baby bond, they do not deny that the baby bond was introduced by the Socialist Government, although this amount has not changed since then. It would be very important to raise family support that the government has not been willing to raise in ten years. Here, allow me one more item to tell you that we have initiated several times to extend the catering allowance to high school students, which means that anyone in need can receive the one-time hot food and the brunch and snacks for free. We've submitted this several times, but you've always voted against it. We can see that next year's budget has disappeared about HUF 12 billion compared to this year, which is linked to a nursery development program. There would still be a great deal of work to be done by the Ministry to build the amount of daycare facilities so that we can provide adequate care for the children of daycare and build a nursery where it is specifically needed. More emphasis should be placed on this in the 2021 budget. Let me get back to the children's meal. This year's children's meals were planned for HUF 82.5 billion, and next year's budget is HUF 86.2 billion. I'd like to know what kind of residue was left in the food supply because of the coronal virus epidemic, because the kids were at home, and they didn't get it. You had the opportunity to ask for a free meal during this time, and I will not deny that you could have used it if you wanted to, but what we see is that if only in your own living environment you asked for the data, the number of children who used it during, say, the coronal virus epidemic was minimal. There are several reasons for this. We should see how much remains will remain during this period. I think we're talking about tens of billions of forints left over in these narrow three months, and we should check it out. We also initiated that some kind of support should be given to parents, these families, because the biggest burden during the coronal virus epidemic was borne by Hungarian families. Even if you look at education, if you look at catering, or if you look at losing jobs. Here, I would like to highlight specifically the mothers who, in addition to, say, studying with the children, even had to do the eating tasks, because they could not use them at the educational institution. During this period, Hungarian families had a tremendous burden. I asked you a written question about what you know about how many children have used during this period and how many have been left out and what will be the amount remaining here that has not been spent on the children. What we see is that the social meal planned for the summer holiday in the budget for next year is still not growing. Here I tell you every year that there is a small gap in this summer's social catering, because it is not automatic for children, but for parents to claim it. A number of surveys have been carried out that many tens of thousands of children fall away from a summer social meal only because they may or may not know how to use it, and the other is that they are ashamed that they belong in this area, that they should ask for this care for poverty reasons for their children. However, the government has an existing database of how many children should provide this care every year. I think that you could finally promise to be automatic about who gets this social benefit in the summer, and you shouldn't go to the town or town clerk with all kinds of requests. There is much to say about what is missing in social benefits and has not changed in the last ten years. Here, let me point out that the corona virus epidemic has shown how many holes there are, whether in child protection or in social care, how many holes there are in the family support system and in nursing care. Allow me to give you one example. There are surveys of 30 percent, at least 30 percent, of cases of domestic violence detected. We have repeatedly debated how this problem should be solved, whether it is now necessary to ratify the Istanbul Convention or not. From this side, we keep saying that you must, you reject it, and even now a political declaration has been made that the Fidesz-KDNP government refuses to ratify it. On the other hand, let us agree on how to strengthen the signalling system and not only domestic violence, but also how to strengthen the protective women's network. How should the paediatric network be strengthened? How should the child protection network, how should this part of the police be strengthened? This part of the courts, who deals with these cases, is all about this, and the coronal virus epidemic has very much highlighted which layers in Hungary are the most vulnerable. I think it is precisely the social area that has been left out of the next budget for 2021. This is the part that should best be strengthened: the protective service, child protection, the paediatric network. Yesterday I told you about the shortcomings, we're talking about a million people who can't get access to basic daily medical care because they don't have a home doctor in the area, and we're talking about worse data every year, what a shortage of pediatricians, we can't even tell you about dentists. So, there is something to be done, and I think that there should be a lot more budgetary resources in this area, precisely because we have just come up with the shortcomings that have been missing in the last ten years. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-11-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-125	[[While he's trying to pin his microphone on:]] I didn't think it would be my turn so soon...
u2020-06-11-126	Congressman, I'm asking you to understand, I've been looking at my own document, and there's been a change on the screen, and I'm sorry. We're about to make a statement, Congressman Vinnai. I beg your pardon.
u2020-06-11-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The negotiation of the budget is always an important event for the parliamentary session. For years now, we have been discussing the budget in the spring session and thus giving more security to next year. [[17.50]] This is a special budgetary situation, because we're discussing it in the middle of an epidemic. It is therefore very important that the budget, which has already been said by many in the budget for economic protection, is prepared to maintain the epidemiological situation, and this debate shows that we need a budget with transparent and clear targets in 2021. Several people have mentioned that it is also a budget for families and security. I will talk about education, higher education, research and development and innovation opportunities, and I would like to say that there is more resources in all areas, including education. If you look at the main figure, this is HUF 80 billion, and higher education, the university world, the world of research and development, and the world of innovation are important because if we invest here, we can have great results. I do not distinguish it from the left as a knowledge-based or work-based society, but I say that it is a knowledge-based and work-based society, because if we create a qualified, qualified workforce, then it finds work. The figures also show that graduate unemployment was the lowest before the crisis, but now there is a special situation. If we look at this, Hungary's budget in front of us, as the Minister of Finance said in the expo, is a shock-resistant, crisis-resistant budget, because the economic funds are good, the economic foundations of the last eight to ten years, so this budget is, in my opinion, a well-designed, viable budget. I am sorry that Anita Potocsány Kőrösi left the Chamber, whom I have seen since this morning. In yesterday's comment, it was a little difficult for me to understand when he said that this budget was opaque and incomprehensible. In fact, about higher education, he said that it is not true that there is more resources for education, because less resources are available in the field of higher education. I would like to tell Anita Potocsány Kőrösi that we are in a model change in higher education. The Corvinus model is well known, and the six universities that are going to start operating as foundations were just before this House. This also changes the system of support, the system of expenditure revenue. They no longer require as much expenditure from the state as they manage their own income. But I will discuss this further in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year's budget in the field of higher education includes sufficient resources to ensure that the higher education, the university and college world functions in a stable and proper manner. The country's financial and economic stability in recent years has enabled us to devote the utmost attention and resources to the functioning of the higher education system. Therefore, we have had a number of successes. However, it is a fact that the real challenge of university education, research and development and innovation is taking place in an international competition whose actors and regularity are taking place in a global world and are constantly changing. If they are constantly changing, they therefore require permanent renewal from institutions operating within national frameworks. Ladies and gentlemen, I've heard from several people here about Trianon, the situation after Trianon. Allow me to make a short parallel. After 1920, Kunó Klebelsberg, Minister of Religion and Cult, was Minister of Education and Culture, as he was then called, and he was also a Member of Parliament, as Minister of the Bethlen Government, said about the university sphere: it is very important for universities not only to educate, but also to focus on research work, to be the base of research work. I, too, admit that basic research and applied research must also be carried out in universities and other research institutes. What kind of training should our universities offer? They should contribute to the development of the Hungarian economy and the Central and Eastern European economy with renewable, competitive and flexible training that adapts to market needs. In several disciplines, they can launch training, accredited training, day, evening and correspondence. And once again, I stress with Széchenyi that there is a need for educated heads of people, knowledge is needed, today's Hungarian higher education must be knowledge-based, but this knowledge base should not only appear in theory, but also help the work-based society, full employment. Like I said, there's a change of model in the university sphere. Corvinus University sets an example with a new model, and it has not been so long since been accepted that six other universities operate as foundations. This means greater autonomy for universities, but they will also have greater responsibilities, as competition-based perspectives of development open up to them, which requires adaptation, change of perspective, bold innovations, performance and cooperation skills. This is the new college world. We are not going to talk about the scholarship and PhD training, see the Bokros package, we are not going to introduce Bologna, see the trainings that students are unable to work with, or we are going to give over-training in some areas when the goal was to get the input, but the output was no longer interested. We do not want PPP programmes in the university sphere, which this government must now replace at an expensive price. In recent years, this has been done not only by experimenting, but also by a number of concrete examples. In next year's budget, according to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the expenditure is HUF 473 billion, the revenue allocation is 324 billion, and the subsidy appropriation is HUF 148.3 billion. There are several numbers, various grants, and the main numbers of the university sphere and research and development. I brought the Ministry chapter because they're exact numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to next year's budget, I have to say what objectives can be set in this sphere. One is to improve education infrastructure, improve R &amp; D, research and development infrastructure and strengthen IT services. I don't think I have to explain on either side why it's important to strengthen IT services. It is precisely the epidemic that has demonstrated the importance of having adequate tools in digital education, online learning in the university world, or even in the world of public education or vocational training. In universities, of course, modern educational and student spaces need to be created and expanded, and a modern infrastructure for research and innovation must be developed. Let me also speak about Community higher education, because there are regions where Community higher education needs to be created so that higher education can be offered there. Ladies and gentlemen, For all of this, excellent teachers, I would say, are needed, so the budget includes increasing the number from 1300 to 2 000 in doctoral training. That's a 2 billion surplus. This includes PhD students' scholarships and training grants, i.e. HUF 2 billion. In order for students to be motivated and committed, a scholarship increase is also required. On 1 February this year, the scholarship increase was 40 percent, and the surplus is also found in next year's budget, which, of course, will be extended to HUF 424 million, and the maximum budget for many areas of training has been increased to some HUF 3 billion. [[18.00]] But to highlight specific points to you, I would like to list only a few items of infrastructure without the need for completeness. As part of the programme, the University of Pécs launched two major programmes: the expansion of foreign language training and the expansion of the conditions for practical medical training and research. I note in parentheses: it also brings money to foreign students, by attracting medical students from abroad, who pay for training, so it is in Pécs, so it is at Semmelweis University, so it is in Debrecen. So I can say that, for example, the University of Pécs costs 650 million HUF; there is a 700 million HUF expansion at the University of Debrecen; there is the establishment of the Mádi Wine Academy, support for the research activities of the Academy; the student Olympics are insured with 293.2 million HUF; and the Centre for Design at the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, art education is also an important HUF 545 million. Allow me to speed up a bit, because I would like to say a few words about R &amp; D and innovation, and I would also like to say a few points of thought about this, because I believe that in R &amp; D we Hungarians have always been strong and that basic research needs to be strengthened. This has the right framework, such as the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund, to provide the specialized resources on which companies in Hungary can undergo technological and efficiency development and renewal. It is only a list of the popular programs that are being supported from this fund: market-driven corporate research and development, the, SME Start, or research related to the virus situation, we have heard about the vaccine, that Hungarians are also at the forefront of this, that serious research is being carried out in the viral situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have mentioned a few specific areas, let me now mention some priority sectors, where research and development and modernisation will take place in the framework of the economic protection action plan, and this will play a major role in increasing innovation potential: the health industry; the food industry, this is a very important area, and I think it is important to pay attention to it; other agricultural areas, agriculture, are doing well in this difficult situation; construction, I come from the area of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, the neighbourhood of Nyíregyháza, where construction plays a very important role; and transport and logistics areas are also important. The good news is that next year's budget will provide an opportunity to increase the total R &amp; D and innovation expenditure in Hungary. I would like to highlight some specific areas where R &amp; D appears. For example, the appropriation of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office provides the, and here I say only one thing: the laser researcher in Szeged, the ELI in Szeged, the laser researcher, which I wrote to myself, that there is a very large number, which, of course, has an EU source, to be developed at international level, but the Hungarian budget also adds 240 million euros to its part, which, if I count correctly, is 90 billion forints, 90 billion forints, this laser research center itself, its creation, its operation and the support of research there. Dear House, What is the aim of R &amp; D? This may be summarised as the contribution of R &amp; D and innovation to the development of products and services that can be used for society and the economy. Accordingly, the aim is to create a framework, a knowledge environment, where public and corporate investment is increasing and resources are being used with increasing efficiency. I would also like to tell you that there are three major areas where resources are available for achieving the goals: one of them is the National Intellectual Property Office, some HUF 4 billion, it operates from its own revenues, there is no budgetary support; the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund, where HUF 137 billion is found, has its own revenue of 120 billion; and the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, where the expenditure is HUF 23 billion, and of which the state aid is HUF 21.2 billion. So you can see that the state, the government, can say that the state is responsible for its part in research and development. To conclude, before summing up, I would just list the programmes that the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund currently runs for this purpose, for example, the basic research component includes the following programmes: a new programme of national excellence, a programme of excellence in research, a programme of mecenature, a programme of excellence in thematic areas, an electronic information programme. I have already mentioned market-driven corporate R &amp; D support for the innovation fund, the SME Start-up programme, the Accelerating band programme, the Start-up Factory programme, industrial law, and I could go on and on for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you, the left, to support this part of the budget, the budget as a whole, because in my opinion, if you look at education expenditure, if you look at educational developments, then this budget is a good investment in the future, which aims to make Hungary a country where the graduate workforce, at all, the workforce, the right knowledge, is valued at a high level by society. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, the DK Group, is now speaking again, and I would like to ask you to take the floor.
u2020-06-11-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, For the budget, I think the magic words have been spoken from both sides, so it is not so easy to comment. For the municipal chapter, Section IX. I would like to comment on this for a longer time, as the Secretary of State thought or suspected, but I would still like to look at one or two other areas in such a cut-off that my ten minutes will allow. Dear Secretary of State, I think that the preparation of the budget at municipal level and at parliamentary level, i.e. at government level, is the biggest event in a management year. There is no way to know what the farming year is here, because it is regulated by the municipalities, but it can be here at the beginning of the year, at the end of the year. If we are serious about what we are discussing now, we are discussing the 2021 budget in such a way that we are now implementing the 2020 budget and we do not know the end of the 2019 budget; we are discussing three years' budget in such a way that we practically have to believe it because there are no relational numbers, no balance sheet, that the figures that have been announced, written down, are authentic, we have to believe that they are authentic, because otherwise, there are no accounting figures to support it, so there is obviously no baseline number, and we do not have a maximum of one or two specific experience or from these production reports that we have heard here, we know where the current implementation is going. One thing is certain: the municipalities I know better, the metropolitans and the district and the agglomeration. [[18.10]] I have to say that the Secretary of State has brought in a new style, and it is good that there is a real debate because he stands up at intervals and argues, so he doesn't listen for two days, and then he takes care of the budget in ten minutes, which I thank you for, because he makes a real debate about the budget by negotiating this method. It takes courage to do so, because there are other disputes that can be provoked, but this is the real trial. You can also consider this to be a compliment from an opposition representative. I think it's a good style. When we talk about the budget, and we say that that philosophy is in this budget, the IX. In the section of Chapter III, for municipalities to have task funding, many people think that the task that the municipality has to carry out is still financed. Yesterday, I wanted to say his name suddenly, Mr Érd, that he has a budget of 41 billion for Érd, of which 38 billion is added by the state. I said I'd go under the bench, there's no way there's a city like this. But the thing is, if I don't have a local knowledge, I don't know if that 38 billion exists, but that's an investment in the city that the city manager had previously had to do with, the current city manager is not really negotiating, but is building something that has already been built there, and beyond that there is a budget of around 14 billion for the city. But the local congressman didn't know much about that. So I have to say that the task funding today looks like the municipalities with higher tax powers have now taken it down so that even more municipalities can be involved by net contributors to the state, in Hungarian, pay more to the state than they get back, in addition to the fact that there are these tightenings or scissors, or I don't know what we call it. Thus, the municipality pays VAT in the same way, one of the largest revenues in its tax revenues to the State, the municipality pays VAT, sija in the same way, and pays this solidarity contribution. And if you look at what this budget itself returns in normative terms in terms of task funding, you can see that we pay more net than we get. And what you're financing now at the nursery is a tiny shift, which is usually 60 percent, so at best 60 to 65 percent of the job if it reaches what the state has financed. Although this is a mandatory task, the rest must be supplemented by the municipality, and we will never speak of it when solidarity comes. This is also a solidarity to complement the mandatory task by 35 or 40 percent, depending on what it is, because there is a tiny normative in older care, there is much higher so-called solidarity, with which we complement it. We've been talking about culture, we've heard beautiful words about culture. It is important to know that the cultural normative of a settlement of eighty or a few thousand inhabitants is HUF 16 million, with a cost of 800 million; it has a normative value of 16 million. So it's frivolous what we've heard here, how much goes to culture and how it's grown. One of the former mayor's colleagues here praised how beautiful cultural development is. Cultural normatives of local governments do not get almost anything. The same is also surprisingly true of the fact that the sports normative is almost zero. The normative of student sports, the normative of children's sport, is quite a symbolic thing for a local government. It's true that this includes our children being transferred to the institutionkeeper, the Klebelsberg Kuno, kindergarten and so forth. For sports clubs, amateurs, leisure sports associations, it is a normative form of sport for 12 million forints. At the same time, such private businesses appear in the same district, which operate from Tao, have paid people, we have nothing to do with them to report. Surprisingly, though, farming is very confusing, trust issues that are very difficult to tolerate in a budget negotiation. I would like to mention that it is good to hear that there is a village program. We are not involved, if I am talking about Budapest and its districts or the agglomeration, there may be a village or two in Pest county. But there is a program of modern cities, which we have heard quite marvels about, for example, in the case of Kaposvár. Here at the production conference, the congressman reported a sum of around 200 billion Kaposvár. He put it together itemically, honestly, how it all worked out. But at the same time, there is a program in the budget that affects the capital city, this program for Healthy Budapest. At this program for Healthy Budapest, I had a surprising experience of how to obtain this money, as the question of how to obtain it is the question of all three chapters. Is this public? Is this decided by some committee, or is this part of the deal between the congressman and someone else at this program for Healthy Budapest? I watched the news last night, and I saw Mr. Secretary Bence Rétvári holding a press conference with one of the Fidesz politicians in my district, showing that he will be in this program for 400, I don't know how many million. The then Fidesz MP came to me and told me to make an agreement. What I could do was not agreed with me, but I'm not vain when it comes to my district, let's do it. We signed it, everything's fine. We arranged the design, 60, I don't know how many million forints we paid for the design, and then the election came. In the election, it somehow turned out that I had moved from mayor to congressman, the congressman had left out, and since then the programme was no longer needed, and since then there has been no "Efficient" programme. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Yeah, I know. I'm sorry. Dear Government, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that there are a number of things that are said here about the tightening up of the local government, which says that these municipalities are okay with it and they are not overwhelmed. I have a feeling that the municipalities will be too vulnerable and they will be in a close-up situation. Don't have to read that back to you from the record. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the DK and MSZP lines.]]
u2020-06-11-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-131	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I am pleased that towards the end of today's debate, and I have the opportunity to address a number of items with which we have conducted here with Mr State Secretary, if not an accounting debate, but, in any case, we have explored the possibility that on the opposition side, the Democratic Coalition clearly believes that this budget cannot be held in this form, and on the other hand, that we see much greater potential in the use of European Union funds. It is also part of this, and I said that the debate could be discussed at the beginning, because there is uncertainty in this budget that they do not know exactly yet, but on Monday we will be able to hear from Prime Minister at a meeting about the negotiating position of the Council of Europe that they will create the best opportunities for Hungary. The use of these resources can create new opportunities for Hungarian people, which can mean businesses and could mean, let's say, families. Therefore, I urge you to make better use of this opportunity, even if you can then ask in this federal system what you have used these resources for, you have used these resources well. So in this sense, I am in favour of this solution, and I am in favour of it, and I recommend it to you. I hope that tomorrow's debate will help to clarify more aspects. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] [[18.20]]
u2020-06-11-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, Mr Secretary of State spoke a few times earlier about the fact that the opposition is seeing the social indicators completely wrong here. In fact, and I repeat this once again here in the debate, more than once, that if we were listening to you, we might actually feel that there are no poor people in Hungary, no workers' poverty, absolutely good, everyone lives in happiness, with the right salary, job opportunities, all the data has improved fantastically since you have been here, and in fact in connection with an earlier debate, Minister Bence Rétvári replied to me, it is true that I did not say what he said, but I am sure it was the right answer, but what I asked him did not give me an answer. These problems related to the poverty gap have deepened in Hungary over the past period. I would also be interested to know what you think about, for example, the fact that the degree-poverty has increased significantly in Hungary compared to 2010 or that workers' poverty has also increased in Hungary. And if we also go around the country and meet families and people, then this optimism is not reflected in these conversations. And even though the situation has indeed improved in some indicators, even by analysing EU statistical data, and for some other indicators it has deteriorated. I would merely like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not choose between certain data that support your right, because we can unilaterally select and provide other data that specifically justify our right. Probably more complex and colorful than that. So it would be much better if, in the debate, at least on the part of a secretary of state, a more sophisticated approach was taken and we could see it, because there is nothing wrong with the fact that poverty has not been fully eradicated in Hungary, I mean that there is no problem, of course we do not expect that this will happen in a year or in four years, but it does not have to be denied either: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There are still many problems. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-06-11-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Before the coronal virus epidemic, tourism was one of the leading sectors of the economy, providing jobs for approximately 400 thousand people, making a living for 400 thousand families, and in December tourism already gave 13 percent of GDP. This year seemed to be the best year for tourism, which lasted until mid-March, the Covid-19 crisis. The epidemic has eliminated the sector, but the government has provided a lifeline for businesses that live on tourism, which could develop in the form of tender opportunities; but these improvements could not only be achieved by the government, but also by various self-strengthening improvements. A lot of businesses, companies did this on their own. As an example, I can mention the Hotel Captain of Sümeg, the Castle of Sümeg and the Castle Csárda; this is the business of a family who made a HUF 200 million development on its own. They were able to keep all 170 workers and employees, and this is a very important step for the city of Sümeg, because we are talking about the largest employer in the city, paying the biggest business tax, so the largest entrepreneur. The primary objective of the 2021 budget is to restart Hungary's domestic tourism and to strengthen the traffic of the summer season. I can confirm this, because in Badacsony this weekend, I found that the room rent and catering pension owners are all full by July and August, and these services are full, so you can see that tourism is starting and there is a good chance that the season can still be brought back in some form. In the budget for 2021, the government aims to restore the Hungarian economy to its former high growth path at European level as soon as possible. This is the goal of Hungary's biggest economic protection programme, which will continue to be implemented in 2021. The 2021 budget is therefore a hope that the sector will recover from the crisis. Our aim remains to strengthen domestic tourism, but it is also a natural goal to bring back foreign top markets. In 2021, tourism resources will increase from HUF 69 billion in 2020 to HUF 90 billion. This is very important for us in the Balaton Uplands, as Balaton is still the second most important tourist destination in Hungary after Budapest. Dear fellow Members, In 2021 tourism can start a dynamic development again, with a lot of development and investment in our constituency as well as in the Balaton Uplands. The airport of Hévíz and Sármellék will be developed; the renovation of the Sümeg castle and the castle of Nagyvázsony will continue. The renovation of the Sümeg Castle begins tomorrow, we lay the foundation stone, and in a month's time, the renovation of the Castle of Nagyvázsony. The Badacsony developments continue and the downtown of Balatonfüred can be renewed. In recent years 55 beaches in 30 settlements in Balaton have been renewed. These renewals can continue, and they can also be enriched with experiential parks. The Kisfaludy program continues, where hotels, pensions, guest houses, private accommodations, camping can be expanded and beautiful. The development of cycling paths continues. This is important in the area of Lake Balaton because it also affects the bike ride, which hugs the Lake Balaton, and we hope that it will be completely renovated the following year. More for the gastronomic and wine development. The development of the Bahart port and fleet, the development of the Balaton shipping, the renewal of Szántód and Tihany's pilot environment will be completed. Compared to this year's amount, there is a greater source for the.Hungarian village program. This is a very important programme for Hungarian people living in the countryside. And I would respond this morning to the reaction of my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, who said that the amount is too small, that few improvements can be made, and that is not what I am experiencing. 57 out of my 60 settlements are involved in the..Hungarian village programme; all settlements will receive a source by the end of the year and can accomplish something. Of course, not everything, not as much as you would like, but I am quite sure that this development is for good purposes. The renovation of Tourinform offices, including the Badacsony Tourinform office, will continue. The road development and the expansion of the road network will continue in the framework of the Hungarian village. In my constituency, the roads have been renewed for HUF 2 billion, and this will continue next year. In 2021, we can hand over part of the Csabrendek-Sümeg, Nyirad-Sümeg and Nyirad-Ajka Road, as well as the side roads of the Balaton Uplands. From the budget of 2021 it is clear that support for small and medium-sized enterprises will increase; more resources will be allocated to the Hungarian village programme and to the development of roads. Wages will continue to rise; taxes will continue to decrease next year and support families will increase. Tourism can emerge and emerge stronger from the crisis. With the development and investments, Ajka, Tapolca, Sümeg and its region can continue to develop in 2021, as well as the Balaton Uplands; our villages can develop further. Dear fellow Members, On these grounds, I am in favour of the budget, and I ask that my fellow Members act in the same way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-11-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Steinmetz, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the budget for 2021 before us, what is really going on here. We are talking about spending 23 373 billion forints here. And before the debate is conducted, I would consider it important, and politeness also wishes us to thank all the taxpayers and all the companies here in Hungary who pay taxes, so that we can use them to distribute and use the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian people, and the development of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. And then I'd like to open a parentheses: if we're talking about people, then it would be worth asking people's opinions about spending public money. I am very sorry that in this budget too, although it is a significant resource, there are many, many billion forints available for government communication, but the question of what public money would be spent on and what it would not be. [[18.30]] So I'm asking you, and I respectfully recommend that you take this into account in the future. Staying on the budget, creating and implementing the law is a responsible task, especially now, during the economic crisis caused by the Crown Virus, when tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people are virtually unemployed, companies are being destroyed, they are going into a very bad state, they are going into bankruptcy. This is why it is very important, and I therefore call on the Hungarian Government to do everything in its power to make much more effective use of both EU and public funds and to act much more effectively against those who do not use these funds properly or fraudulently turn them into private assets. I would also like to make a message, a request, to my fellow opposition Members, here in the debate of the law I would also like to lead by my own example, in order to show restraint. If we imagine this 23 000 billion forint as a cake, and we would like this cake to provide a thicker, thicker slice of certain tasks for certain purposes, then we also need to think that it will or will not get a thinner slice for other purposes or other tasks. So, in view of this and in this spirit, I would like to make proposals to this House and to my fellow Members, and I am proposing constructive proposals to you. What can I start with, as with health, because our health is the most important value. Speaking of budgets and finances, allow me to introduce this subject with a well-known saying, which is to say, "health only," and we'll buy the rest when we have the money. That is why health care is very important, because healthy people also need an adequate health background, so that if these people get sick, they get professional care as soon as possible. But what we see is that this sector is extremely underfunded, and we do not need to be a health professional to admit that it is so, even if the budget for this year seems to be an attempt to strengthen health, I do not dispute that, by the way, the epidemic has shown that this is necessary. But, continuing with the idea of why this is visible to non-professionals, a living example is that our hospitals are indebted year after year and must be consolidated at the end of the year against the central budget. The second is the situation of the longer waiting lists, which is clearly due to the lack of specialists to treat patients, for example, as you already know, waiting 15 months for an eye examination in Marcali. This is one of the most serious problems of my narrower country, Somogya. For this reason, I believe that the government should support this hospital, which has been promised for years, but has not performed, such as the purchase of a CT device, the purchase of medical devices, which could not have been carried out as the site of the hospital in Kaposvár. I go further, I do not reveal a great secret by saying that my heart is a sport, and I am particularly pleased that the Hungarian government now has a strategy for the automotive and motor sports sector and are planning to build a new MotoGP track. By the way, more than 20 billion forints are earmarked in the budget, and it is addressed that this will happen somewhere in Eastern Hungary. On the one hand, I am glad that there will be a MotoGP competition, because this has been a long-awaited demand and that our country can host another international sports competition. I can't agree with the location, because such an investment was already built at the border of the village of Sávoly, in a 20-30 percent state of readiness. I think and believe that this money should be used to complete this project, because it would clearly serve the recovery of both the region of Sávoly and the region of Balaton, since my fellow Member has just spoken about tourism here, and I will talk about it, too, if anything. Then you can see that I'm constructive, what can be taken from, and what can't. Turning to agriculture, I believe that we can agree, regardless of party affiliation, that agriculture should have a much greater emphasis on the flowering of our closed manufacturing industry, which was privatized in the early 1990s, and this is also true of the Balaton wine economy that everyone knows, which took place abroad, even though it had previously provided the livelihood of thousands of families. I think we should buy this back. In the past, there was a demand, a political intention, and now there is even a intention to sell on the part of the owners. So we should take this into state property, and I'll tell you what it's about: the money from the sale of state-owned land that we're selling right now. Therefore, these funds should not be used primarily to repay public debt, but, for example, to strengthen the manufacturing industry. I hope that you will also obtain the purchase of the site and part of the plant of the Wine Farm in Balatonboglár, which, given to local producer groups, would increase processing, bring more added value, job creation and higher wages. There is an untenable condition that 70 percent of the grapes leave the wine region unprocessed in an area of such a past. And then I'd be on my way, and we'd have to make a run for it. Instead of or in part, instead of supporting the Budapest-Belgrád railway that never returns, I would rather stay on the ground and advise that the M7 motorway should be extended twice to three lanes. We have heard here days ago that there is no government plan and government intention in this regard, which is unfortunate because it has been a recurring problem for decades because regular plugs from the beginning of June to the end of August make it difficult to get to and from Lake Balaton. Experts are also of the opinion that this is an untenable situation, which should be changed. But in the same way, the condition of road 68 must be changed, which is a national road connecting Lake Balaton to Croatia for more than 90 kilometres. There have already been plans to renovate this road before, and there is an enormous amount of freight traffic on this road. We would also like to see progress in this, and we would like to see a resource in the budget. It's a great pleasure to talk about positives, that the refurbished road 67 has already been extended to two lanes. I'm hoping and asking you that after 67, 68 is next. In order not only to talk about major projects, it was mentioned that the Hungarian village program and the renovation of inland roads were included. This is a very useful programme, I believe, but it must also be seen that the municipal needs are far above the resources available in the budget, which is not proportionate. Not least, I would like to say a few words about tourism, and here my pro-government colleague rightly said that after Budapest, the region of Lake Balaton is Hungary's second largest tourist value. That's right. But we must not only think of the narrowly taken Lake Balaton, but also of the so-called backup settlements. [[18.40]] These settlements, too, I think, need to be given a chance and a source of opportunity to live from the tourism on the shore of Lake Balaton with these opportunities, to attract tourists there. This would also have the potential, since there are many castles in the southern part of Lake Balaton, which is doomed to destruction, has been unexploited for years. I am thinking only of the Zichy Castle in Polskót, the Hunyady Castle in two places, which is otherwise capitalized, and the Somogysárdi Somssich Castle in Somogysárd. I ask you, if we already have a national castle and castle project, then these castles should be included in this program. It is unworthy that virtually no castle from the South-Transdanubian region is part of this programme. As I said, I have tabled amendments. I would like to ask you with great respect that when you take part in the work of the committee responsible, you should consider these proposals. I ask you to support it, because these are absolutely realistic and legitimate demands, I think. I am very confident that, taking this into account, it will be incorporated into the next year's budget. Thank you in advance for your constructivity, and thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-11-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of Békéscsaba and its surroundings, I would like to comment on next year's budget by presenting the topic of cycling to our settlements. For us in Békés county, cycling is a very important tool and opportunity. A tool and opportunity to preserve the values of the past, a healthy lifestyle, relaxation, active recreation, leisure sports; the possibility of going to work and school every day, developing tourism, protecting our environment; the possibility of a more relaxed life and shaping our children's attitudes. Today Békéscsaba is one of the most bicycling county seats in the country. More than a third of the 60 thousand people living here consider it a primary means of transport, or use the bicycle several times a week, even daily. This indicator is equivalent to the relevant data of the European Union's two leading cyclists, Denmark and the Netherlands. In the international comparison, not only my narrower living environment, but Hungary is also in a good position, for example, we are in the 8th place of the European ranking in the statistics prepared recently by the European Cycling Association, taking into account five aspects. Dear House, Safety is obviously of paramount importance in the case of transport on a two-wheeled vehicle. The number of accidents may be reduced by magnitude if cyclists are allowed to travel on a dedicated route separate from vehicle traffic. In view of this, the large-scale bicycle road network development programme, which has resulted in the construction of 750 km of new cycling paths in Hungary since 2015. There is currently a 9350 km long cycling route in Hungary. The development programme of the last few years will be implemented with 200 billion Hungarian and EU funds, and Békéscsaba and its region will have benefited from it, and we are working to ensure that it will continue to benefit in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, Compared to this year, every priority area can expect more money next year. A financial framework for family support, education, health, pensions, the public sector, law enforcement, social security and welfare services, economic protection and support to municipalities will be increased. Similarly, we can manage cycling developments in the 1st constituency of Békés County in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the key objectives of the concept of the development of the bicycle network, adopted by Békéscsaba, is the interconnection of inland cycling routes. With the construction of new cycling routes, with the partial renovation of the existing ones, the county seat will build a network of about 80 km long, which affects the whole city, not only allowing safe transport by beam. The investments in the area in progress or before the start of the project will be completed by the end of next year. Another step forward is the bicycle roads to be built and renovated in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. In order to approach industrial parks by bicycle, sections will be renewed or built. In doing so, the government and the municipality of Békéscsaba will help the employees to get to work safely. We can finally renovate the bicycle roads running towards Gerlai, the part of the county and the road to Kétegházi. Thanks to the support of the Hungarian government, the development for tourism can also be launched within the framework of the programme. Modern Cities.This is the construction of the Wenckheim Cycling Road. The nearly 20 km radius connects the built heritage and castles connected to the Wenckheim family on a route that, in addition to the natural treasures, also shows the heart of the county seat, the city's values. It is an important element of this project that it is planned that a bicycle route will finally connect Szabadsánkos to the county seat. It is a fitting addition that Endre Krajcsovics and his Sons Technical, Industrial and Commercial Company, founded in 1936, started manufacturing and making the unique production of the KREFI brand bicycle, which is now found in the local securities deposit box in Pécsaba. It is also part of the past related to cycling that Csaba built the first bicycle track in Hungary at the time, which was completed in 1890. It is interesting that the Millenáris bicycle track in the capital was not handed over until six years later. Connecting the values of our past and our natural treasures with cycling routes can offer unique tourist attractions for those who want to enjoy active recreation. The outline of the green corridor project would provide hiking opportunities between Békés, Békéscsaba and Gyula along natural living waters and rivers. Cycling trails with service points between cities, rest areas, lowland wetland habitats, animal and plant life can offer many experiences to visitors. It can lead to dynamic growth of investment in tourism and related economic sectors, catering, service sector. These projects can benefit not only from the central peace area, but also from the county of Békés. Békéscsaba, Békés county has a built-up bicycle route, which allows road traffic to travel safely, along the southwest of Telekgerendás, across Orosháza to the entire Csongrád counties. There is a HUF 500 million TOP amount available in Kondoros and its wider environment. The continuity of the Körös-Völgy bicycle network will be ensured between Békésszentandrás and Békéscsaba after the end of the investment in the spring, including Tésopronyt and Kondoros. The county seat also connects by bicycle route to the settlements in the northern direction, Peace and Box. The design of the Körös Valley and the Bihar-kör cycling routes are being considered at the level of a concept. By adding the length of existing and soon-to-be routes, we get more than 250 km of bike routes from Békéscsaba, which are cut off from road traffic. The resources of the bicycle transport development programme announced by the Hungarian Government for the period 2014-2020 are being used effectively. For example, the bicycle route connecting Gerendas and Csorvas was completed. Békéscsaba has recently won some HUF 6 billion for bicycle projects. [[18.50]] In connection with the M44, the external connection of the traffic of the highway connecting to the city from the direction of Csabaszabai to the motorway network will be built. A bicycle route and a service road along the eight kilometers long stretch will allow bicycle transport. This investment, which is expected to be completed in a long period of two years, will help to transport people living outside the city and working in the industrial areas of the region. However, the picture would not be complete if we only connected cycling with tourism, everyday transport and work. One element in reducing emissions from polluting gases is less driving by motor vehicles and more using our bicycles. Dear House, By using cycling routes, children can get used to cycling from a very early age in safe conditions. We can teach them not only a healthy lifestyle, love of movement and nature, but also the basic rules of transport. There are several points in the KRESZ park for schoolchildren, where children can learn about the content of the text written to primary schools, showing the rules of walking and cycling. The digital version of the educational workbook with the involvement of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and six other organisations is already available to some educational institutions with a test character from this year. Another important fact is that Békéscsaba has committed to expanding the local bicycle park for cycling. We are therefore entering into a partnership in the national and European Union endeavour to strengthen cycling and to take advantage of its potential. Perhaps it should be noted that of the settlements in the agglomeration, thousands of people work in the county seat. At work, many people use bus and rail services in long-distance transport, while at the same time driving by bicycle to the stops. There are hundreds of bicycles on weekdays at municipal and city bus stations or railway stations. During the next period, we will also find a source to build modern bicycle reservoirs in New Snake, Kondoros and Csorvas, which also protect the two-wheel vehicles with their cover. Next year, therefore, as indicated by the Minister of Finance's exposé and the State Secretary's contribution, the municipalities will receive an additional HUF 120 billion subsidy compared to this year's framework. What is also particularly important for my comment is that there will also be targeted resources for the renovation and construction of bicycle traffic facilities, and there will also be a significant amount of money from this framework for us in Békés County. I therefore consider next year's budget to be supported in this respect as well. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This is Thursday, approaching the end of the sitting, and I am in a lucky position that the deadline for the submission of amendments has expired. Obviously, several of my fellow Members, a number of groups, have already been able to send their amendments to the House's system, and I can report to my fellow Members that the MSZP faction has tabled comprehensive amendments concerning complete areas of expertise. Analyzing the situation of our claim, the budget and Hungary, we need to rethink Hungary as well as the budget that you have submitted. Hungary must be rebuilt quite simply. It needs to be rebuilt, not only because the effects of a very serious coronal virus epidemic have to be suffered by this country, both social and economic, but also because the ten years that this country has spent in your governance, the population of this country, are quite different from those of the pro-government speakers. We believe that you have neglected complete social groups, complete specialities. This is what our amendments suggest, suggesting that this reconstruction should start and that we should immediately rethink Hungary together. This rethink concerns the pension system, the social sphere, health and education, and this is what my fellow factions have been talking about in the last few days, and even tomorrow's day will be used for this by the representatives of the MSZP, but we are also proposing to launch a comprehensive building energy programme, and we have found real, well-founded resources in your presentation, and up to 500 billion could be spent for this purpose. I think that this would be a real reduction in the costs and a real measure that would really show the Hungarian people the opportunity to make a serious contribution and make progress. We also want a rental programme, and I think that I need to talk comprehensively about what a few people have talked about before me, the municipalities, because we think that after the municipal elections, your policy has changed with regard to local governments, that they imagine different frameworks for the municipalities. Somehow, these frameworks always turn out to be more burdensome for the opposition-led municipalities, for the new legislation, for the new budgetary measures, and for the municipalities that you have led or led by your political partners, these decisions are not a new burden or a less burdensome one. We have also tabled a proposal in this respect, and we firmly believe that 100 percent of the car tax should remain with the municipalities, and that the municipalities should be supported. Perhaps in the wrong interpretation that you are saying, the worst is that the municipalities are not one of the additional burden-sharing systems in this epidemic, or they are not one of those who should be burdened. They were specifically on the front line of defense, they had a very high cost, so they did not need more burden, but rather more resources to do their work on the ground for the benefit of the people. And of course, Mr Secretary of State has said the system that has been created, but it is our firm position that most of the settlements with more than 22 thousand inhabitants obviously have a negative budget, and by the way, our firm position is that the tax on cars is the tax, which also represents a kind of room for manoeuvre for the smallest settlement, a kind of room for manoeuvre for the smallest villages. You have taken this one at a time, and you are perspective to see that you are planning to take it away from the municipalities until 2024, which concerns this cycle. In this sense, therefore, this measure is harmful to the entire local government sphere, so we propose that we do this differently, withdraw it, and the 100 percent remain the tax on motor vehicles in the municipalities. As I mentioned earlier, there has already been a serious debate on the solidarity contribution. What I see is that those settlements that are specifically affected by this decision, such as the capital city, but also by the way, several cities with county rights, where, by the way, the election results that you have had in the autumn have been negative. I ask you not to punish the people of Hungary, nor to punish these inhabitants for their decision. Think of this part of the budget again in any case, a number of council leaders, mayor, have asked you to do so. But in this line of things, this is what has actually been introduced here in recent weeks by another proposal on the issue of special economic zones, which has actually been a kind of attack on municipal revenue. I am not going to go into the details of this now, but it is clear that as the sword of Damocles, it is there above the municipalities that the government has unilaterally ordered to take away business tax revenues from them, and would otherwise pass it on to a type of municipal government, the county authorities, where we acknowledge that it was a positive result for you, in October 19 all county municipalities have Fidesz leadership. So I think that this budget fits into this process. [[19.00]] I've already talked about business tax revenues, and it's not unprecedented. As regards public transport, you have already changed and this type of revenue must first be used by local authorities for local community transport. I am curious to see what will happen in the medium term with the public support of local community transport, because I think that this is an element that should be preserved. In the case of the coronal virus epidemic, there were already losses of revenue from the municipalities. Let's just think about the abolition of the parking fee, it will return from 1 July, but they were forced to cut rents, let go, and otherwise support the local economy and people's daily lives. This epidemic and the resulting social and economic impacts have therefore been a very serious burden for the municipalities. The budget needs to be restructured so that more resources can be allocated locally to the important tasks that local governments are doing for the benefit of the people. By the way, I would like to tell this House that, according to calculations, in my home town, Miskolc, only this year, about 7 billion is the sum of your withdrawals and the loss of revenue caused by the epidemic. This is an amazing amount, and the solution to this problem is not helped by the fact that your local politicians are trying to push it into the city as if it were his responsibility, while the government's actions are making this worse, and it must also be fought in Miskolc, obviously, that the previous city administration has accumulated ten billion public service charges, which is unsustainable. That is why I have also tabled proposals specifically for amendments to Miskolc for objectives that are important in the fight against air pollution, proposed a road renewal programme, proposed a proposal for the reconstruction of the Wheat Square and for the development of the Tisza Railway Station into an intermodal hub. I'm asking you to help the local authorities, help Miskolc. Don't look at the political affiliation of these municipalities, the political affiliation of city leaders. In the end, local governments are robots, trying to serve them, make their daily lives better. Help me with this job, don't interfere. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-06-11-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to Congressman László Varga, I thought of autumn 2006. It was in the autumn of 2006, when the opposition won strong municipal positions, and I remember that the Ministry of Interior, represented by Mónika Lamperth, ruled out, let's say, the county self-governments. The beginning of my representativeship is foggy. I was a Member for the first time in 1998, and then, of course, I was a mayor, and since 2010 I was also a Member, and as a Member, I lived in bankruptcy, and as a mayor, I also experienced bankruptcy, so for me the Member's concern is a little amusing, as far as the local government is concerned. I was lucky to be mayor, and I had to pay off over $3 billion in debt to a ten thousand-dollar town after the socialist leadership. But in fact, I do not want to talk about this issue with regard to the budget; rather, it is the green issues which, in my case, are important issues here. We also have to say that although we are beyond the coronal virus epidemic, this has undoubtedly caused losses to this country, but we must say that the government's consistent economic policy since 2010 has put the Hungarian economy on a long-term growth path that has led us or brought us into the coronal virus epidemic in a completely different way than it could have done in the case of a weak economy. The Hungarian economy has been stable and balanced since 2013, and all sectors have contributed positively to the nearly 30% growth. GDP increased by 4.9 percent annually in 2019. Thanks to the economic policy of recent years, as I have said, the corona virus epidemic has affected a resilient, balanced economy, and Hungary is facing the challenges with strong fundamentals and sound public finances. As far as my previous sentence is concerned, climate protection is in the interest and responsibility of all of us, since how our common future is going to work is determined by today's decisions. The government has also demonstrated its commitment by action and has set strong strategic goals in the area of climate change and environmental protection. We are progressing consistently towards the 2030 targets. For example, in Hungary, electricity production will be carbon neutral at 90% so far. This is confirmed by the budget for 2021, as the budget provides HUF 34.3 billion for the operation of the energy and climate modernisation system. In view of the future, the aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Hungary by 40 per cent compared to 90 per cent by 2030 and to increase the share of renewable energy use from the current 13 to 21 per cent. In order to achieve climate neutrality, we need all technologies, we need particular attention and resources to save energy, to use renewable energy sources, and we also need to maintain and expand nuclear capacities. In order to achieve the 2030 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, the government has identified priority measures. The Hungarian climate and energy strategy is based on the fact that in the future, we will have to ensure the vast majority of domestic electricity production in a carbon neutral way, i.e. by using nuclear energy and renewable energy, in particular solar energy. This is done by implementing the Paks II project and gradually replacing lignite-based electricity production in the Mátra Power Plant until 2025, and implementing the related priority regional development projects. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The Mátra power plant is not only Hungary's only large domestic primary power plant, but it is also the second largest power plant in Hungary in addition to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and its second most important regulatory core power plant. The climate adaptation measure is that by 2022 the government will build up almost 3 thousand solar power generation capacities of at least 6 thousand megawatts by 2030, and the regulatory environment that will encourage the maintenance of natural gas-based power generation capacities guaranteeing the flexibility of the electricity system and security of supply will be developed and a number of electricity grid developments will be implemented. Greening the transport sector is a priority area for climate action. To this end, the government plans to increase the share of public transport, and to develop cableway suburban transport, and to support the use of zero-emission cheap electric cars, we know that with up to HUF 2.5 million per car, with a budget of EUR 5 billion. The green bus programme will start from 1 January 2022, which will provide 20 percent support per vehicle, with a total budget of HUF 36 billion being allocated by the government. The aim of this is to install only electric buses in settlements with a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants. [[19.10]] In order to create energy-conscious and modern Hungarian homes, the government also planned measures: the Hungarian village program and the possibility of home creation in the village CSOK, the Hungarian Development Bank provides a zero-percent credit facility; until 2030 we intend to install one million so-called smart meters; the adjustment of the heating system and the introduction of invoicing on the basis of it in about 200,000 remotely heated homes; a green-range heat program, which reduces the share of natural gas use in domestic district heating, mainly by increasing the use of renewable energy. We support opportunities based on locally available renewable energy sources, the use of biomass, geothermal energy and solar energy at local level. The government is implementing a number of measures to protect the natural environment. In recent years, nearly 6500 hectares have been planted, with a total budget of HUF 39 billion. The aim is to increase the forest area from 21 percent to 27 percent in Hungary. The network of protected natural areas has been successfully expanded, since from 2010 until July 19 82 new protected sites of national importance were established with a total coverage of more than 4,000 hectares. Thanks to programmes to help reconstruct habitats, the state of natural values will improve at 100,000 hectares in the coming years. Between 2010 and 2018 the government already spent more than HUF 120 billion on environmental remediation. Within the framework of climate-conscious water management, we encourage the retention of water in Hungary and the measures to do so, and we will ensure that our surface and groundwater resources are preserved. In view of the size of the irrigated area, the aim is to increase the volume of irrigated areas from 87 thousand hectares to 200 thousand hectares by 2022 and 400 thousand hectares by 2030. The spread of irrigation farming will allow farmers to adapt flexibly to the challenges of changing weather conditions. Within the framework of the climate and nature conservation action plan, illegal landfills will be eradicated, since 2021 the gradual ban on disposable plastics and the purification of our rivers, in particular Tisza and the Danube from plastics, this PET Cup, have obviously been heard about them; the protection of our natural resources and waters deserves special attention. As far as I'm concerned, the government not only talks about climate targets, nature and environmental issues, but also takes decisive action in these areas, while keeping jobs as far as possible. Therefore, on my part, I will, of course, support the 2021 budget, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Good evening. The representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Zoltán Varga, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In order to understand my infinite pain about the budget before us, allow us to look back four years into the past, even for a brief flash. I don't know if you guys have ever woken up from surgical anesthesia with an obnoxious appetite for a broken-down reluxa constantly beating on the window with the running paint. He did all this because there was no air conditioning or air conditioning in the southern room, so six patients in the room tried to do a crossover in the heat, and there was no sunscreen, because the relaxes were torn down, so the wind beat down the broken relaxes. The thing is, I listened to that voice for a week: tak-tak-tak. For a wretched week, I had this sound in my ear, the sound of the reluxa hitting the window with the hot draft. And you know what the tragedy is? That this had happened to me four years ago, and last summer, when I was in the same ward to the god, not for my own sake, but for my visitation, this relux was exactly beaten by the hot draft, because the patients in there could not exist other than to make a cross cover, and the broken relax was beaten by the cross cover. The terrible thing about this story is that nothing's changed in four years. Nothing's changed. And what is truly creepy is that the budget ahead of us is a budget of cowardice and weakness that shows that it will continue in 2021. The wind will hit the window in 2021 as well. The real tragedy, otherwise, is that while Minister Kásler, who has recently not only passed a human but medical exam in these difficult weeks and months, sees the future of health in the Ten Commandments, the head of the Government of Hungary would spend all the money of the world on sports. This is what this budget says, that health is a necessary evil in the eyes of the current government. Necessary evil! This is also shown by the fact that, among other things, according to the OECD report on Hungary's 2019 health profile, Hungary's health is chronically underfunded. And this is also shown by the fact that we know that I have read it very well and I am absolutely shocked that during the crisis, in recent months, the government has spent 695 million forints each day on the government's obsession with sport. I would like to repeat this: 695 million forints a day, while spending on health care per capita is less than 1500 euros, making us one of the drivers in the EU. The proportion of health expenditure in relation to GDP is consistently and regularly below the EU average. But to give you another figure: public participation in health spending and I am thinking about government and compulsory social security is only 73 percent of total health expenditure, but direct public contributions from so-called pockets reach 27 percent, while the EU average in this case is 16 percent. Can we understand this, Congressmen and ladies, what am I saying, that rich Germany, where there is no pensioner who gets less than EUR 2300 a month, has to pay much less out of pocket for health care than we do? That's terrible. The problem is that this situation is preserved by the current budget. The problem is that this current budget is an inhumane budget. The problem is that this current budget is a budget of cowardice and weakness. Allow me three thoughts on the budget, health and the horrific and sad vision of the future. 1. The virus, whether you like it or not, will probably be around for many years. 2. Even the Prime Minister acknowledges that the country is facing further health, epidemiological and economic difficulties. 3. It is clear that there is also a lack of awareness from the 2021 budget ahead of us that investment and comprehensive reforms are needed to rationalise the use of resources in the healthcare system, reduce access inequalities and increase the level of supply. [[19.20]] What am I talking about? The fact that prevention and basic care are deeply underfunded and do not take advantage of their potential to improve cost-effectiveness, accessibility and quality of supply. I am talking about the fact that Hungary's society has been inextricably divided, because there is a layer that can pay for the excellent quality of private health services, so that it can heal in a single room, to receive CT scans and other scans almost immediately, until there is nothing left for the break-down layer. And the biggest problem is that this remains the same in the 2021 budget, while we spend money on sports; while we issue new billion-dollar tenders for the operation of non-governmental aircraft, the country's health is increasingly in ruins. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly like the current government of Hungary; this budget is a budget of weakness, cowardice, deception, the budget of the proud Fidesz national capital class. This budget is a disgrace to the country, a disgrace to the government. Thank you for listening.
u2020-06-11-146	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, This could be a two-minute speech, but no one has come forward. We will therefore return to the pre-notification speeches in a quick process. The representative of Fidesz, Mr Zsolt Becsó, may speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-11-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The economic and social catching up of East Nógrád, the achievement of a more dynamic growth is not new in our lives, it has been on the agenda since the change of system, and therefore it is no coincidence that countless experiments, special programs, measures, practical help have been formulated or started and implemented with changing content. In the last thirty years, there has not been a government, an approved budget, that has not wanted to achieve more tangible results through its support policy in our region. However, the decisions of governments operating between 1990 and 2010, even if they were important and forward-looking, did not bring about the expected rise. The exception can only be the first Orbán government, because after 1998, Nógrád started on the road to development, developments in Western and Eastern Nógrád, the economy has been growing, unemployment has decreased, quality of life has improved. Unfortunately, after 2004, the then national decision-makers took the wind out of our county's swelling sails, and thus the drift to the periphery became the determining factor. That is why it was a matter of life after the change of government in 2010 so that we could find our way back to the right path again, and we would have received the support from the Orbán government that we had earned a long time ago, and we should have had it by now. Indeed, the last ten years have been about starting a road after crisis management and consolidation that contributes to a more viable, future-oriented, economically stable living space in our region as well. The direction is good, we have made progress in a number of indicators, we have had the attention and support of the government, but 2021 is now presenting us all with a new type of challenge. In addition to maintaining the epidemiological preparedness, next year's budget will be the main task of relaunching the economy in difficulty, and we in Nógrád will need to find a solution in this situation in order to regain our strength in relation to more developed areas with significant support, such as Debrecen, Győr, Kecskemét or Székesfehérvár, so that we will not grow behind. Yet, there are several areas, several forms of support that directly affect us and give us reason for confidence. These include EU funds, in particular the Operational Programme for Territorial and Urban Development. This was the source for which both the county and the town of Salgótarján county received the highest special support from the government, which enabled development in Nógrád county with more than HUF 50 billion in funding. The programme has not yet been completed, several running programs require government escalation, but it can already be said that this support was a necessary and successful construction. This is why it is important that the necessary resources are available in the 2021 budget and the planning for the new seven-year EU planning period has also been launched. Providing a resource of similar content and magnitude will be a key issue in the future for the implementation of the development visions of municipal authorities. The Hungarian village is very popular in the settlements under the five thousand inhabitants, and because Nógrád is basically small villaged, so it is also very popular here. In the 2021 budget there is HUF 90 billion on this line, which is a fair amount, there has never been such a program in Hungary, but if there were twice as many, our mayors could also spend it for meaningful purposes. In addition to excellent coordination, the success of the programme is also driven by the fact that it identifies several important areas of interest at small-scale settlement level, is subject to rapid evaluation, and within five days of issuing supporting documents, the money will be in the winning applicants' accounts. This option and the continuation of the village CSOK have great social support, which also goes back to the budget. The Modern Cities programme is the largest county development programme ever launched, which is also true for the city of Salgótarján. All the projects of the agreement concluded on 21 March 2017 and the government decision concerned started from the demographic and economic situation of the city and, in view of their impact, go beyond the administrative boundaries of the city. It is a pleasure that the four-banding of Route 21 of the agreement has been completed, and the city has thus been connected to the country's economic circulation. The building of the oncology center has begun, the renewal of the main parish church is coming to an end, and the promised HUF 1 billion of support has long since arrived in the city's account. Next year's budget for the implementation of the 23 county-righted city programmes is HUF 50 billion, which does not allow all projects at different levels of preparation to start, but, for example, the Novohrad-Nógrád Geopark tourist package, the development of ecclesiastical institutions and the strategic launch of the lakeside sports and recreation package with the University of Physical Education, the examination of the foundation of the projects, and the preparation of the most important plans, hopefully there will be sufficient support. It is encouraging that further development lines will also be able to support, for example, investment promotion targets, large enterprise investment grants, tourism development targets, passenger car support for large families, or, for example, road development, nógrád projects, economic recovery investments. Overall, despite the difficulties, we do not have to give up our goal of building a more livable, economically developing area for visitors in East Nógrád, including Pásztó, Bátonyterény, Salgótarján, and Hollókő and our national shrine, Szentkut and 43 other settlements. So be it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A representative of Jobbik, Congressman Gergely Kálló, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-149	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last few hours, many people have touched on the 2021 budget in many ways, generally negative signs from the opposition side, while positive indicators from the pro-government side have been more positive. Now it is far from me to put the budget in words, and I would rather highlight a much more important point, and this is the budgets submitted since 2010 and the opposition amendments tabled to them. [[19.30]] I spent the last few days with my colleagues collecting a number of opposition amendments since 2010: 6681. Since 2010, there have been 6681 amendments from the opposition side to the government side. From this 6681 amendment, I am very proud that my group has been at the forefront year after year. Now we have a brutal number: 22 of these 6681 amendments have been adopted by the governing party since 2010. Twenty-two pieces! 22 pieces were adopted by the governing party who, in posters and rhetoric, constantly talks about national cooperation and national cooperation. This shows that they do not think this too seriously, because we, opposition representatives, we also represent electors, we represent Hungarian people, and we should thank you back in national cooperation, in the work that at least deserve to read our amendment proposals. Now, let's go back a little bit, or let's get back to my precinct. In my district, there are the largest employers in Fejér county. I can't stop thinking about the ironworks, thinking about the Hamburger Paper Factory, or thinking about the Hankook tire manufacturer. It is no exaggeration to say that these companies provide jobs for thousands, if not tens of thousands, and provide the livelihood of thousands, if not tens of thousands of families. Despite the fact that we have such infrastructure and such an industrial character, you have not voted in favour of our proposed amendments for years and have not given my district any or no financial support for years. I will come back to this at the end of my speech, because there is something important to be noted here. I would therefore like to ask you one thing after the introduction: if an opposition Member is able to submit proposals for amendments that support not the communities of opposition, not independent, but the communities of pro-government mayors, we would expect you to do the same. If we are able to do so, and this is not a favor on our part, but a duty on our part, if we are able to think about the development of the settlements led by the mayor of Fidesz, then vice-versa would expect the same, because it is in the interests of our nation, our country and our districts. There can be no party color for the renovation of hospitals, no party colour for the renovation of school buildings, no party colour, and no party question is whether a school is leaking or we solve this problem. There can be no party to the fact that we want to create community youth houses in my district in order to keep youth and keep them in place. The quality of roads and sidewalks doesn't have a protege. I say it a lot: there's no fidesz pothole. There's no DK pothole, there's no righty pothole. There are simply potholes on the roads that we need to solve together, and we need to embrace them together. There is no party color for panel development, and there is no party color for trying to fix a park. I've been thinking about the whole area, and I've put in over 50 modifications without making a difference between a fidesz voter or a fidesz resident. I didn't make a difference between a fidesz mayor, an independent mayor, or even a better-looking mayor, and I apologize, my heart is the center of my district. I didn't want to talk about this, but unfortunately, last week, a debate on animal protection was off the agenda. I did not classify the budget with words at the beginning of my speech, and now allow me to do so. For you, ladies and gentlemen, this may also be a budget for odds. You took this debate off the agenda a few minutes before the animal protection debate last week. That's why I'm forced to speak here in connection with animal protection. I have tabled three amendments to animal protection. There is no colour in animal welfare, as I have said, so I ask you with deep respect to give the animals a chance in this budget. We asked for billions of forints to start the national neutering operation. I've asked for billions of dollars in order to put the shelters in place in the country, so that there wouldn't be unblessed animals. And I also asked for money, because since the change of regime, this is a huge deficiency of the Hungarian state, so that we can create an animal police force, which represents not only the interests of the household but also the interests of the livestock. In the beginning, I said that I would return for a while to a point I had begun, which was that my district had not received any financial or other support from the government for years. As a result, in 2018, the opposition will win the elections against you in a row, not a little, very much. Well, I'd like to give you some advice that might be bad for me, too. My advice is that my amendments will be voted on by your Members. If you vote for this, you can say goodbye to me and play with ease I will be defeated in 2022. Give money to my district, give money to the development, and trust me, you won't have any more problems with me. Thank you for listening to me, I'll remain a servant of my district. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-11-150	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-151	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the budget law of 2021, it is not possible to go beyond what many of my fellow Members have not said without saying that there are concerns and questions about the situation with regard to the coronal virus epidemic. It is clear that the coronal virus has an impact on the economy, in fact we are facing a crisis situation, and this also affects the budget. Although it is not possible to compare it to the global economic crisis of 2008-09, but I remember well when the crisis spilled over to Hungary, then the 2010 budget was voted by Parliament in 2009, and then very much cut the support of advocacy organisations in the field of disability and many others. In this respect, in relation to the budget for 2021, my first real expectation was not to reduce the amounts in any area, especially in the social sphere or in the area of disability; that is to say, that the amounts of aid should remain almost, and I am very pleased that this has been achieved, so there is no reduction anywhere. I highlight some issues from the social sphere, and one more point is that we also need to see that the structure of the budget has changed compared to previous budgets, so it combines several lines, but the amounts are still available. Nevertheless, the interests organisations dealing with disability have expressed concern that they are not listed among the subsidy lines, and here, in consultation with the EMMI State Secretary, Attila Philip and the organisations, we have concluded that this is okay, that the amounts are available, because the organisations are listed in the justification of the Budget Act. Therefore, there is no reason to worry about organisations in this regard. However, I would suggest that we split this line into three so-called sub-series, namely members of the National Disability Council, and this would be one of the lines; the other, who is not a member of the OFT, but has already received state aid; and the third, the members of the Charity Council. So these are the three substrings on which I would add the support of the organizations and the amount of this. [[19.40]] In 2010, these organisations received a third of the support compared to the current one, i.e. three times their support in ten years, a total of HUF 1.1 billion this year, and next year this amount will remain. It is also an important objective to improve the employment and quality of life of people with disabilities and to enable as many of them to work in the open labour market as possible. In 2021 there is 2.2 billion HUF more resources available for this purpose, totaling HUF 45 billion 600 million. This is a continuous task, as is social thinking and training people with disabilities in order to be able to take a position in the open labour market in line with their skills. This amount facilitates the operation of 375 accredited employers and more than 30 thousand disabled persons. Another important goal and task, for which there is also a source, the operation of sign language translation services, the elemental visual rehabilitation service, the VINKT video-based sign language interpreter service and the IT-based TeleSzem service. If you look at the titles where there are positive changes, you can see that there are lines, areas where there are additional resources compared to this year. For example, the national disability programme, with a surplus of 294 million. This is primarily the charge for foster parents with special needs and the additional resource to cover infrastructure developments in this area. HUF 416 million more will be paid to institutions for the care of people with low numbers of disabilities and non-state family and child welfare services. This actually covers compensation for the minimum wage. Elementary visual rehabilitation receives 600 million forints more than this year, because in previous years 124 million forints were the source of this, and now 600 million forints. This additional resource ensures that visually impaired persons are able to use up to 300 hours of elementary rehabilitation service free of charge per person per year. So you can see that there are additional resources in this area. I have not mentioned it yet, but it is important that the subsidised housing and day-care of psychiatric patients will be available in parallel from 1 January, as well as the parallel use of day care and assisted housing for people with disabilities. Therefore, both items can benefit from the aid on the same day. It does not concern the social sphere, but I would like to say that sport is also an important area for people with disabilities. Here, too, the budget has combined a range of competition and disability sports, however, the amount is available as before. I would also suggest dismantling here, because the sport of disabled people is not only a sport of competition, but also of recreational sports, of sports for children with special educational needs, so it is a very complex, much more complex area than competition sport. It would be equally reassuring for organisations active in the field of sport for disabled people if this line could be included separately in the budget. Compared to 2019, in 2020 my proposal almost doubled the support for disability sports, from 460 million to 907 million. It is even comforting that by 2021 the same amount of aid remains. By the way, there will be two major world competitions next year, one of which is the paralympics that have slipped over to the next year because of the coronal virus epidemic, which will be held in Japan, and the other is the summer deafly lympics that will be held in Brazil. So none is a cheap event; it is important that both have the right amount and support. Another important area for me in culture is the question of theatrical accessibility. This year, it was a great step forward that compared to the previous years' application, where there was usually a HUF 5-10 million grant, there was a big leap, and the funding that the theatres could apply for was increased to 100 million, and this amount could be used for accessibility and for the organisation of sensitive programs, including the people with disabilities involved. This $100 million framework remains for the next year, and it is reassuring to me and to the people involved. In the end, allow me to make an observation, which is actually my private opinion. Congressman Zoltán Varga mentioned the reluxic analogy that I find strong in the debate on the budget. I led a civil protection organization for several years, so I was also a maintainer, and in this case I believe that it is not for the government, Parliament or the state to look at it, but for the maintenance, technical or maintenance of the place. For me, as a former maintainer, it is unthinkable that whatever the funding or support is, it is not okay to have a window or a reluxa. I guess you know what I mean. Finally, let me say that I do not think this is a budget for cowardice and weakness, but rather a budget for predictability, planning and security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-11-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. A representative of the MSZP, Ms Zita Gurmai, may now speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! There is no other country in the world that doesn't help local governments that are spoiled because of the epidemic, but on the contrary, it robs them and taxes them. There is no other country where the crisis would be used for a political vendetta the way the Fidesz government does. It is quite clear that the financial bleeding of municipalities has nothing to do with the epidemic. This is explained by the fact that the Orbán government plans to recover ever-increasing withdrawals until 2024. By 2024 when the municipal elections will take place. That tells us it's not about crisis management. This is political revenge against opposition-led municipalities. The planned withdrawal of the car tax in 2024 will be almost double the amount of the local government tax called the solidarity contribution this year, and next year it will be HUF 160 billion, i.e. Fidesz will increase it almost fourfold. It is apparent that withdrawals are most likely to hit larger cities with opposition leadership. In the case of Budapest, this burden increases almost fourfold from HUF 10 billion this year. [[19.50]] In the opposition-led Tatabánya, the solidarity contribution is 1.5 billion forints, plus the 200 million car tax deduction, which is a brutal strain on the city. This is clearly in line with the measures taken to take money from the municipalities as well. With the designation of special economic zones, the municipal government's tax revenues are directed to the pro-government county municipalities. Where there is no such designated special economic zone, local authorities cannot have free access to the business tax because it must be used primarily to finance local public transport. The limitation of the use of this tax also severely reduces the financial scope of the municipalities. Parking is also free of charge, while it is not clear how much this has helped to protect against the epidemic, but this method is very suitable for making municipalities financially impossible. Once again, there is no other country that robs municipalities instead of helping them, only the Fidesz in the whole world does that. This is shameful because the tax forints taken by Fidesz were produced by local businesses and by the people working there. You can say, of course, that the abstract revenue will be recovered on the basis of the standards that exist today, but there is no guarantee that the object, basis and amount of the norm will remain unchanged. If they take the money from the local authorities, they will make their operation impossible. After a robbery like this, it's easy to play a good government against helpless local governments. Of course, let the people who have become unemployed be angry at the municipality because they can't give aid. But what few people know is that this money was taken by Fidesz. It is easy to boast that the main figures of the central budget will be restored, as this money will be taken from the municipalities by Fidesz. In the case of motor vehicle tax and solidarity contributions alone, HUF 156 billion will be taken out of the pockets of the municipalities. In addition, while withdrawals are increasing, all previous tasks remain with the municipalities. It's impossible to pay for everything, but with a lot less money. However, if someone is to be thanked by the government for dealing with the epidemic, it is the municipalities, the local administration of the settlements, that have greatly helped to protect effectively. They informed, helped the population, especially the elderly, those in need of care, those in low incomes. I must say that the opposition-led municipalities elected in October 2019 have performed particularly well in this regard. It is enough to compare the actions of two municipalities with one opposition and one Fidesz-led leadership, take the XV. and Annex XVI. The example of a district. Annex XV is amended as follows: In the district, Mayor László Hajdu's successor, Mayor Angéla Németh, was subjected to co-viral tests in the social institutions of the municipality, a three-month delay was granted to tenants of municipal housing, a care allowance of HUF 50,000 was granted to the families of patients sent home from hospitals, common cost support and extraordinary job search support. These are all measures that we seek in vain in Fidesz-led XVI. in the district. And then you'll start a money-lending vendetta against the local authorities. Rather, they should be helped to keep their professionals at the current level and level of wages. According to the Association of Hungarian civil servants, civil servants and civil service workers, the majority of them may become unemployed because of Fidesz withdrawal, as a result of withdrawal, civil servants, kindergartens, employees of social institutions, daycare workers and other employees. Of course, we know that Fidesz is better off if these people work as public workers for a fraction of their salary so far. However, according to the MSZP, the jobs and salaries of these professionals must be protected. We should finally see people and give them help. This is the opportunity not to be taken away from the adoption of the budget, but to give, not to destroy, but to build, by protecting jobs. I will give you some examples of which I will also present an amendment. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán Nagykanizsán signed on 23 June 2015 in the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" -, the government supports the construction of the southern bypass route of Nagykanizsa. This promise has not become anything since then, nor has it come from the hotel and conference centre that Viktor Orbán has also promised. This is an opportunity for the Prime Minister to wash off the fact that the people who live there think they are liars, and these investments also provide new jobs. Also in Nagykanizság, the renovation of the so-called Small Castle is long overdue. In Bajan, building a five - mile - long section of the road from the south would be vital for those living there. I hope that Miklós Simon, who was supposed to support the local government of Nyírbátor from the Territorial Operational Programme, will not be able to support it at least in proportion to the population. It should help and not hinder the implementation of the bicycle path competition in the region. If Nyírbátor is so important to him, then I ask and expect you to support the bypass investment that I have tabled in my amendment. Please join my amendment on the road II. In order to achieve its pace. I'm not gonna tell you any more. I repeat: people need to be looked at, they need to be helped. When Fidesz takes billions away from municipalities, it does not punish offices, but eliminates the opportunities of people living in that settlement, the benefits and developments that affect them. Of course, we know that you know this, because your goal is to reduce the resources of the opposition-led municipalities, so that they are less able to carry out their duties. But I ask you: where is the patriotism in this attitude, where is your vow to serve the Hungarian people in this revenge? Notice that Fidesz punishes Hungarian voters! Of course, you may think that people are stupid and can be bullied against local governments, but believe me, more and more people see through the tricks of Fidesz. People will know that there's no money for a lot of things because Fidesz took it and people's anger turns on you. This was the case during the last municipal election and will be even more so in the future. I would suggest that we not continue this endless cynical vendetta, but accept our amendments. Not only write empty and lying words on posters, but they also serve the Hungarian people with deeds! It's time! Do as long as you can, because they're on the wheel. After that, it'll be too late because no one will want to hear their explanation. Thank you for listening.
u2020-06-11-154	Thank you. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so we will continue with the speeches by the Members. The representative of Fidesz, Mónika Dunai, is coming. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We are in an extraordinary period, because the debate on Hungary's central budget for next year is taking place with the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework of the European Union, all in the midst of an economic crisis caused by a pandemic. This is why, when preparing this bill, the government was forced to calculate an amount not yet known in this area. We are optimistic and assume that Member States will soon come to a common denominator and that the implementation of programmes financed by EU funds can start in 2021. Allow me to briefly reflect on the current development of the MFF before I turn to the budget, as this is a crucial factor for us. The latest development is the Commission's proposal on the subject on 27 May. Of course, for us this development can only be described with a small degree of goodwill, since there is no significant change in the Hungarian allocation between 2021 and 2027 compared to the February proposal. [[20.00]] Our resources from cohesion policy would remain at the original level of EUR 17.9 billion; the amount from the common agricultural policy would increase by EUR 0.3 billion. With the Fair Transition Fund, Hungary would receive an extra EUR 30 million, while our support would be reduced by EUR 500 million as a result of the abolition of the convergence and reform instruments. In the period 2014-2020, the main challenges and development priorities of our country are identified by the Partnership Agreement, within which the details of the designated development directions are set out in operational programmes. Allow me to briefly address these programmes. One of the most effective areas of the economic development and innovation programme is the improvement of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the part of the Fidesz fraction, I would like to welcome the fact that SMEs are also a priority in the government's economic policy and in the allocation of EU funds. This sector is one of the biggest victims of the crisis caused by the corona virus. SMEs currently account for 54 percent of Hungarian GDP and 69 percent of employment. It is therefore crucial to strengthen their competitiveness. It is also welcome that, in addition to SMEs, research and innovation and support for renewable energy are also given priority. In the same way, the Competitive Central Hungary Operational Programme promotes the development of competitiveness. Infrastructure development, digitalisation and technological innovation within the framework of the programme will further increase the export capacity of our country's economic sector. Hungary is a particularly open, export-oriented economy. I therefore consider it essential to improve the competitiveness of exporting companies. This article is also intended to fund not only economic operators but also important tourism and urban development programmes. This is also the project "Modern Cities" with capacity expansion investments worth a total of HUF 137 billion. Another outstanding priority of the Competitive Central Hungary Operational Programme is programmes that enhance social access and support human resources development. I was pleased to read that this programme is expected to reach HUF 1137 million in 2021 to remedy serious social problems. This resource will further support the integration of marginalised social groups, their access to education and social services. Moreover, the integrated social urban regeneration measure in the Territorial and Urban Development Operational Programme aims at improving the living conditions of disadvantaged people, especially the Roma, within the framework of a priority of HUF 3403 million. The operational programme to support people in need will facilitate the most vulnerable members of our society. It can therefore be said that while left-wing politicians talk about the budget of desertion, the figures in the budget show something else; the person who read it can see it well. The government has a special focus on social inclusion. As a result, the percentage of the population at risk of poverty in the last decade has fallen from 31.5 percent to below 20 percent and has remained below the EU average. Ladies and gentlemen, In today's debate, from several left-wing politicians, Jobbik to independent representatives, it has been said that it is a shame what the government is doing to the poor in a poverty policy, and what great praises we are singing about the great wealth and poverty in Hungary. No one ever said that on Fidesz-KDNP. We are making a great deal of effort to reduce poverty and get there after a while to put an end to it. We never said that we had achieved this ideal goal. But the reduction in the number of people exposed to poverty in Hungary from 31.5 per cent to less than 20 per cent, I think that in ten years he has taken a significant step in the right direction. Similarly, the operational programme for the development of human resources is an important instrument in the fight against social cooperation and discrimination. In line with the government's policy so far, the focus here is also on catching up through education and job opportunities. We, who believe in a work-based society rather than in the aid-based society, welcome the objectives set out in the programme such as promoting a quality public education system, reducing school leaving and investing in vocational training. With regard to the operational programme on environmental and energy efficiency, allow me to go back to the subject of the multiannual financial framework. Our government's position is that new policies should not be at the expense of old, well-valued policies. Green change and climate protection must not lead to cohesion or, say, the success of the common agricultural policy. The parallel feasibility of these is demonstrated by Hungary through its own example, as we both increase our competitiveness and meet our climate protection objectives. Moreover, our country is expected to meet its national greenhouse gas emissions target under the Europe 2020 strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, The priorities of the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency will also contribute to this result. Improving waste management and sanitation, increasing the energy efficiency of businesses and municipalities are all objectives that ensure both cost-effectiveness and the protection of our nature. The two must prevail together and be achieved at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, This year, the extraordinary situation has been that three factors make budget planning difficult and difficult to counterbalance the government's fiscal discipline and competence, since the budget is ahead of us and we are now discussing it for the second day. Neither the outcome of the epidemic situation, nor the extent of the recession, nor even the evolution of the MFF negotiations can be accurately predicted, we all know that, together with this, I am pleased to note that our government has once again submitted an ambitious, exemplary draft budget to this House. I would like to ask my fellow Members that, if they have not studied it yet, or have not examined it, but have already spoken on the subject, they should do so as a substitute to read at least the part of the statement of reasons, if not the numbers, and with the final vote, by submitting the amendments, to support the budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-11-156	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mrs. Anita Kőrösi, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In my speech yesterday as the lead speaker, I generally touched on the central budget for 2021, in particular with regard to the changes affecting the municipalities, the withdrawal, and for a reason I called this budget for revenge. Now in this speech, I would like to go back to my place of residence, the Siófok-centred constituency, and the Balaton. I would first like to share with you my thoughts on the activity in Balaton, which, I believe, is in place here in the budgetary debate. Our Balaton national treasure, the Balaton all have these slogans. But it's only good if we fill it with content. [[20.10]] You do this by taking the Balaton away from the people, taking it away because some families have been playing hotels and campsites in the past. If you look at it, there is a huge area of nearly 50 hectares near Siófok, in the Club Aliga Balatonvilágos, which is a pearl of the Eastern Basin, they also set foot there. The investment started, and the government-like oligarchs began to conquer the area, thus taking away the space from the people, as the machines are still working, and will continue to work in the next period. It is sad to say this, because this area really deserves to be developed which is not the development of a small circle, but of all of us, of all Hungarians, because we know that Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. But not only this area, but also the ports, the ports that you also want to play to the government-like oligarchs. Butchers and Tiborcz's companies keep working every day to get these ports to them. Why is this again in the budgetary debate about shipping and sailing in Balaton? By the way, I've already spoken this week, and I've asked the Secretary of State an immediate question. Because sailing in Balaton is a value that we must preserve. When the Balaton Alliance raises its voice and rings the alarm bell not to sell the ports, not to nationalise the sailing ports, and then, obviously, we know that privatisation will follow, then we should listen to these voices. The Balaton Association is a group of local governments, which do have a good knowledge of how to operate next to Lake Balaton, how to make it more attractive for tourists. The Balatoni Association not only ring the alarm bell in the case of Bahart, but also ring the bell for the withdrawal of the so-called resort support. On the 3rd, a letter was drafted to Minister Gergely Gulyás, protesting that the motor vehicle tax had already been taken from the municipalities, already being applied to parts of the business tax, the tourist tax could no longer be collected this year, but a declaration must be submitted and then applied for this additional holiday fee, which would give the municipality an extra HUF for every tourist tax collected. And when we look at the budget for 2021, we see the sentence that this is now being carried out, because there is more than HUF 120 billion in additional operating aid for municipalities, so this extra tourist tax is not needed. 95 billion forints, which in this context is a fourfold increase in the amount of the solidarity contribution due to the reduction of tax capacity, and due to the introduction of the tourist tax supplement, it is published here in the budget. So the point is that this is also a withdrawal, because we know very well that while the system was to give you a forint after a forint, your settlement, you are interested in making your settlement as attractive as possible, the better you work to increase your guest's nightstand, to make such tourist investments, and to run the Lake Balaton. What's gonna happen now? They do not give this additional support, but they will be able to apply in some way for local governments, and then obviously according to the usual system, that if you are a friend, more for those who are less friends, less for those who are less friends. But the municipalities will be less interested because the tourist tax is a significant item, especially on the shore of Lake Balaton. I spoke on this subject not so long ago, then, by the way, we are talking about the reduction of additional support from the resort, and now, unfortunately, we are talking about taking it, because in 2011 a HUF and a half was added to this fee, and then in 2017 it was reduced to a HUF, and then we see that in 2020 they will not be able to obtain that amount, and by 2021 this is no longer the case. The Balaton Association, as a local government, is ringing the alarm bell. How do we want to develop tourism and municipalities working in the driving sector of GDP? This question is not only interesting in the Balaton destination, it is interesting in the whole country, because it does not only concern them. But we know very well that tourism accounts for more than 10 percent of GDP. In 2020, however, this will change, which we are already seeing, and unfortunately, the coronal virus epidemic has now repelled the tourism sector. But in the coming period, if there is adequate investment in tourism, it will boost it. So this is a very serious issue, and although we know that most settlements, especially small settlements, small villages, while rural tourism is developing, we know very well that we have learned that they can apply for one million HUF. Let's add in parentheses that the tender will be written out, and then it will be closed in a few hours, because it is already full to the point that the source is empty. So this also has an interesting complex, which is worth mentioning, how the application system works with you. But we've learned that in the last ten years, there's no change in that. So we hope that one day they will wake up, that perhaps we should also support the municipalities where on 13 October people said they didn't want any of you. Obviously, the Hungarian people who live there should not be punished. So the Balaton is in trouble, and I wanted to translate the cry for help of the Balaton Association's local governments in this speech, because it cannot be allowed to take another withdrawal with this measure. In this regard, of course, until today's 16 o'clock, I lived with a motion for amendment, and I asked that, at least if we do not go back to the 2011 HUF and a half forint, at least last year or this year, give the municipalities a HUF, declared, as they can make and invest in tourist development. And I'd like to share a few thoughts about the Siófok Constituencies after the Balaton. There is no simple case in this constituency, I know very well, because there is a very beautiful section of the Balaton coast called a rich one, and there is a part of the constituency, the majority of the 71 settlements, which is far from it, unfortunately, in rather step-daughter conditions. I wanted to make amendments to the constituency with which I could improve the situation of the people who live there a little. First of all, with regard to Siófok, I would like to describe what two amendments I have made. For a very long time, Siófok, the Siófok, mainly, but the tourists there are also the bypasses. It's been said many times that we're always talking about the bypass, and the mayor doesn't do anything. Yes, you do, because in the previous term, the body of representatives has also marked the trail. But you're the ones who're smearing the local governments, taking the proceeds, and then expecting the local authorities to improve. Obviously, a detour right now, right now, and certainly the municipality can't do it on its own. There is a reconstruction of the Sió Canal, and thank God that we have been able to agree with the contractor and the Vizig that there will be a barrier in the Kiliti district that will be suitable for a phase of the bypass. I think that in order to be able to start the investment on a track on the route which has already been actually designated, a source is necessary. I submitted an amendment to this because the city will actually be clogged in the summer tourist season at a level that is unbearable, and let us not talk about pollution, air pollution. Another important area of Siófok, on which I tabled an amendment, was the industrial park. [[20.20]] Everyone knows very well that there can't be a settlement standing on one foot. We know Siófok is a very important tourist player, but it would also be good to build an industrial park. By the way, the city has already received a source from the Urban Development Operational Programme. Thank you very much for this, by the way, because it could be a foot for the development of this industrial park. What's happened since then? It's been years, and that source is not enough, but if the city wants to make this industrial park, it would have to take credit, because it can't do it on its own. The fact that a city is now taking such a high level of credit, I wouldn't think it would be a lucky and supportive idea, so that's why I submitted it to the government to provide self-esteem in relation to the industrial park. A very positive initiative has been launched in the constituency of Zamárdi, as they will launch a so-called swallow program, which is about making the settlement attractive for young people, and they would like to provide land for this at a reduced rate, otherwise they would like to organize the area on the south side of Szent István utca. I have tabled an amendment to this. Let us provide a source for this, and they can do it as soon as possible, because it is very important not only for tourists to have an attractive Zamárdi, but also for the people who live there, and especially for young people to arrive in the city. The next town has five cities in the constituency Balatonföldvár. The interesting thing about Balatonföldvár is that there is now a public outrage about the port. Obviously, I'm also following up on this, and I'm trying to give you all the help you need to know where to invest in the Balatonföldvár area. There is an idea that I can fully support, and this is the investment of the Kvassay promenade, because it is also very important to have investments, tourism developments that make it attractive and to make it even more beneficial for tourists, so I took the initiative to amend it. This is Lake Balaton. I think tourism and other developments are really important. If we're going down in the constituency, we're gonna make it to Tab's town. There is one of the largest employers in the constituency, and this is the area from which many people commute to the surrounding settlements, because what Tabon has set out to do is to build apartments to make the settlement also attractive, and obviously because of the work it would be very important. In this connection, I tabled an amendment because I think it is very important to ensure housing there as well. There's one more settlement, the city of Igal. Igal is famous for his bath, his medicinal water. I would also like to develop the campsite there, so I tabled an amendment to the development of the campsite's facilities. I have tabled these proposals to the Economic Committee, and not because I do not know that it would be better than the Committee on Budgets, but only the pro-government representative of the constituency, Mihály Witzmann, is a member of the Committee on Economics, and I very much hope that next week's debate, which, if I remember correctly, will be on the Committee on Economics on 16th, will be able to support these amendments. I believe that it is in the interest of the constituency to develop cities, so that the surrounding settlements can also develop. Of course, it must also be stressed that not only cities but also smaller settlements need to be developed, and there is a need for investment in infrastructure. I have tabled amendments on roads, sidewalks and precipitation water drainage, precisely so that at least a small amount of resources are available for these most basic infrastructure investments. We know that there is a program and countless programs in the Hungarian village, but let us see that those resources are small, and until government propaganda is almost 24 billion forints, let us put a few more ten million forints in some settlements, and it will be much more livable for people. Just because there's blue posters all over the country doesn't make it any better for anyone. But if they can walk along the sidewalk under good circumstances, they will feel much better too. I trust that you will be able to accept these amendments, either on the basis of what I have said in my speech as a general speaker or on the basis of what we have just said, either in the committee section or in the final vote, because it is in all our interests that the Hungarian people, our fellow countrymen, live even better. What they're doing to the municipalities, and I said it in my speech as a speaker, and I still think it's outrageous, and yes, it's a budget for revenge. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-11-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, please.
u2020-06-11-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I have the honor of putting the crown on the excellent speeches that my colleagues have made here today. I have prepared a very long 40-42-minute speech, but given the five-minute timeframe, I would like to put three short thoughts in closing form. One is that a budget is just a set of seemingly numbers, it is actually a stamp on the present, a age document. It shows how a power, a majority, a government thinks about the world, how it thinks about the future it wants for its own country. One thing is clear about this budget: you think that the central power is omnipotent, the central power is smarter than anything else and knows everything better, so as much as possible is centralized, the more you suck up to yourself, because you think that the world works well when you tell everything. I'd like to inform you that the world is going elsewhere. The world is moving elsewhere. That is exactly the point of making decisions wherever possible where most information is available. And don't be surprised at today's debate and yesterday's debate. People don't trust you, we don't trust you, that's what we do, but people don't trust you, they don't believe that you can make good decisions in local matters. That's what you understand, and that's what you understand. The second thing that my fellow Members have said very clearly and plastically with detailed figures: the local government is not in general, it is an important pillar of a democratic institutional system that must never be fired, it must not be tilted, because then it will not be what we say in classic democracy. There are several ways to make the municipal system impossible. One option is to reduce your powers. The other is, we're gonna take his money, we're gonna smoke his money. You're doing the brilliant thing so you can do these two at the same time. So they are able to also reduce powers, their room for manoeuvre, and, in the meantime, to reduce the resources available. The Members before me have said this very clearly with numbers, but please agree, and I would also like to express this idea. It is only in the short term that opposition authorities are punished, in fact, by the people who live there, and the people who live there do not have party preference in this respect, and it cannot be said that they are wrong in any way because, where appropriate, you think that you have made the wrong decision. The third thought I would like to put as a closing point is what will happen, say, in about 40-50 years, when the world will look back on these ten years of the government of Viktor Orbán and Fidesz-KDNP. Are you going to tell me that you've taken advantage of this opportunity, or have you abused it? What they will say then, as Mr Secretary of State said in a two-minute response, that there was actually a economic activity in global economic processes, for example, energy prices are falling spectacularly in these years, and European Union funds are largely available to Hungary. We can say that the markets in the world with which we are happy to trade are soaring, they are okay, there is peace, there is peace, and then the question is, what do we do with the opportunity that Hungary has received during this period. [[20.30]] We are building a modern, innovative, developing Hungary, or we are locking ourselves in a cage where there is no short-term breakout; we are investing these money in stones or investing in something that can produce futures later; that we are building a country that will be able to develop even if there is a crisis in the world. And you are proud of what is not innovative, which is not building a modern country. They boast of things, things in these budgets, focusing on matters that have not resulted in Hungary being able to break out of the framework or the situation in which it is located in the short term. They have had a huge responsibility over the past ten years, a great opportunity, because they had strong political support among the population, they were able to make decisions by a very significant majority, they could do what they did in a very pleasant international climate, and compared to that, Hungary is becoming increasingly isolated, Hungary is moving towards a assembly plant, if we look at industry, and a significant part of the money is not invested in knowledge, not in the future, but rather in the past. I tried to do these three thoughts in the short five minutes at my disposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-11-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. He was right about almost everything. I'm not allowed to talk to him, so I can't tell you how I feel about it from here. Unfortunately, he was wrong that you weren't the last speaker, which, by the way, makes me sad. [[Defiance.]] However, I am pleased to give the floor to Congressman Volner, an independent Member, who announced his intention to speak at the push of a button. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I'm sad that even though I can't fully see into the pro-government benches, I hear there's a man sitting in the part of the pulpit, there's five of us in the room. [[Mónika Dunai:]] Two, I'm sorry. Then there are six of the two hundred representatives in the room who are interested in discussing Hungary's budget. And as an independent Member, I was prepared to have two minutes on time, which I can use, but given that I am the only one in the 12 independent Members, so I am preparing for a longer speech, I hope my fellow Members will also be interested in the content of this. We now have the country's economic plan for 2021, which I would like to evaluate in detail for you, taking into account in particular sustainability and long-term planning. There was a debate among my fellow Members, which could be seen as a philosophy of the economy. Left-wing MEPs argued that more aid should be given, and the pro-government representatives made other speeches towards a work-based society. For my part, I would simplify this and bring it closer to the body by saying that this is the case of the fish or net that the fellow Members have been talking about. The question is how to deal with an economic crisis. Left-wing representatives say that those who have suffered damage, individuals or businesses should be given more money from the central budget. According to the right-wing approach, not only in Hungary, but also in the US and around the world, this characteristic is basically focused on saving economic structures by right-wing governments, i.e. not giving fish but giving nets and teaching the natives to fish, because they believe that this will make us much more advanced than one-off social transfers, which, in the long term, cannot be maintained from budgetary sources. Why do I think it is very important to emphasize this difference? There is nothing further from me than left-wing and liberal ideas and the idea that my fellow Members represent on my left, but everyone needs to see the level of sustainability that leads to in the budget when the proposals of left-wing Members are on the agenda and are taken up by the government, let us say. First of all, this involves virtually reducing the desire to find a job with one-off social transfers, giving those affected an additional benefit that discourages them from trying to work on the labour market, either by the state or in jobs created by the market, and I do not think that is good. It is not good in itself because it also reduces the overall competitiveness of the economy by making social transfers from the budget. Because the budget is forced to collect these funds from the people who pay the tax from somewhere, and in this case it is obliged to raise taxes on their behalf. So, who among my left-wing fellow Members suggests that the government should give significant amounts of social benefits in this way, he also proposes to increase the tax on those who, by the way, give the burden-bearing part of the budget, in Hungarian, I mean working people of active age. I also consider the structural difference between the left-wing and the right-wing approach to one case, focusing on individuals and people in distress, to provide one-off or even multiple help, and this takes a long time, which is extremely unfortunate from the point of view of the budget, right-wing thinking focuses primarily on the protection of integrated knowledge, economic knowledge and the protection of economic structures. I would like to move on to the first policy chapter, which has triggered a great deal of debate recently. In Hungary, the new international franchise product developed by the left-wing and liberal side, green policy, climate change policy as a political content, as a political product, is used specifically by the left for party policy purposes. We have seen that, unfortunately, there has been no other product for a long time, and now, in practice, as in an international political franchise, the left is ready to receive these proposals, thus bombing the government side in this bill to comply with their wishes, and although sad, I must say that the biggest nonsense can be described in the context of climate change, because otherwise going against it means denying climate change. It is very important to understand that when the country has to develop its national energy mix, it must rely on it. There are two target dates before the country, which should be a priority for budgetary planning in this area: 2030 and 2050. By 2050, Hungary's economy and other EU economies should be climate neutral. To this end, the estimated cost is about HUF 50 000 billion, which until then we have to spend on climate-neutral transformation of the economy, and this extraordinary amount must be obtained from the European Union at the cost of international struggles, possibly to the greatest extent possible. So when my fellow Members blame the government, where appropriate, for fighting to ensure that the green agreement that the European Union wants to establish does not happen at the expense of poor countries, then they are speaking against the Hungarian budget. I am not a government representative, I am not defending the government, but I am protecting our budget and our national interests. It is very important to understand what those representatives, politicians' arguments, have said in order to protect the green economy, mean. Let's look at these briefly. On the subject of solar energy, my fellow Members have repeatedly made recommendations or made proposals that would require significant budget items in this regard, and I would add that we have already come to the point where the national energy strategy plan became known, that the government's proposals were branded as extremely pro-solar on the front page of the Index, whereas they are very concerned that there is no wind energy in the supported options. What I see, however, is that Hungary has very modest talents in this area, and I agree with the fact that it should not be. In the same way, there is a unit of intent between me and other Members, and we also need to reduce fossil energy with left-wing representatives. This costs a great deal of money, and there is also a significant foreign policy dependence on the country, of course, by importing energy sources. So what I see in this is that there is unity between the various political sides, that this must be contained, but not with regard to nuclear energy. I do not see this possible from another source of energy, and I have always defended it in detail, including in policy debates, showing the balance of energy use and the cost of nuclear energy in this area and the cost of other energy sources. [[20.40]] I see a risk, Mr Secretary of State, and I ask you to draw the attention of government officials, and since you are Secretary of State in this area, I ask you to forward it within the budget, which has already been published in this year's budget, and I think that this could be a permanent problem. This year's budget for Budapest was planned by Gergely Christmas with a deficit of HUF 122 billion. By the way, he revives the financial reserves of István Tarlós, which he provided to Budapest with a cost-effective farm, and now these financial reserves are running out. I am asking you very much... I have done this at the Economic Committee because if this situation stays that way and the City Council tries to cover this deficit with securities and other things, I think it will cause a structural problem within its budget. The Metropolitan Government is already complaining about a lack of money, but it can be seen that there is no reason for this with a deficit of 122 billion forints. I'm asking you to pay attention to this, because it's really done, and you've got a little attention from the government side. It would be worth considering in greater depth. I would like to look at some of the elements of the tax system and recommend it to the Secretary of State. The first thing I want to deal with is the amount of the bank tax. The bank tax was previously levied at a much higher rate, and the government had previously established this amount in proportion to the balance sheet total. I would consider it fair, Mr State Secretary, given that in recent years, the banking system has continuously made record profits in Hungary with a profit of HUF 700 billion a year, it is no small item that I believe that banks should be involved in public burdens at a higher rate than the government currently does. There is plenty of funding from this annual profit of over 700 billion forints. I think it would be fair for banks to make a higher contribution to public burdens. There used to be another type of public burden that hit the banks, this is the credit institution's allowance, of which about HUF 20 billion was transferred to the Hungarian budget annually. On account of the above, I would consider it socially and economically appropriate that the payment of a credit institution's pension be returned to the banks. Again, 20 billion forints was the sum of this. The next tax, which I would like to make, is the amount of the transaction fee. Before the introduction of this in 2012, I myself indicated several times here in Parliament that I do not see in the law the guarantee that the transaction fee will not be passed on to customers by the banking sector. And then he made sure that my opinion was true. When the draft Act on transaction duty was published, the banks informed their customers by letter and typically identified a transaction cost increase of the same size as the government had imposed on them as transaction fees. I therefore ask, Mr Secretary of State, that every year I have asked the Government and ask you to ensure that the original purpose of the law is to ensure that the real burden of this is indeed the credit institution sector and that the amount of transaction duty is not passed on to small businesses and private individuals. If I usually look at the cost of banking in Hungary, it is particularly expensive to bank in Hungary in an international comparison, and the banks work with a particularly high profit margin. I think it is important to draw attention to what, at least to me in a joyful way, the government has already started to move, this is a matter of business tax. I see a number of local problems, Mr Secretary of State, that one or two large companies are registered in one of the settlements with similar characteristics, and that there is significant business tax revenue coming into the neighbouring settlement, which has the same employment and other problems, or infrastructure problems, even though there is no similar company, there is significantly less government budget. I would consider it fair that business tax revenues would not be transferred to a single settlement in this case, but would, if possible, be divided at least on a regional level with several other settlements, as the state of growth can happen more than once in the agglomeration, as it is possible to observe that people from the agglomeration may go to work in the capital or larger cities, but that tax revenue is generated in the capital through the establishment of companies, but given the need to solve people's housing and its infrastructure background, this tax revenue is no longer necessarily reflected in the agglomeration. So I think this is a systemic problem that should be addressed by restructuring the business tax in the way I have indicated. By the way, on the car tax, since my fellow Members on the left have raised this question, I would like to make some points. At the time of the coronal virus epidemic, every office, every municipality, the state itself had more responsibility and less revenue. The Hungarian state is currently suffering from more tasks due to the corona virus, and revenues are significantly reduced, as the budget has decreased due to the economic downtime. I do not simply understand the thinking that Gergely Christmas is pushing, for example, and what I see here in Parliament by my fellow left-wing Members, is that it is true that the state itself has less revenue, yet give the municipalities more money, because they have tasks that they have voluntarily undertaken that have been put on their budget, and now they should understand that they want to receive extra money for this. I just can't do this. What I see in this case, too, is that once everyone's income is reduced, even an opposition government has to acknowledge that these revenues are indeed falling with them. It's simply fair, whatever color of a municipality, it also decreases its revenue. Unfortunately, that's the pandemic situation. I would like to briefly address the issue of the pension register. For a long time, if you look at the long-term time series, you can see that the substitution rate in Hungary will deteriorate tenuously and in the future will deteriorate even more, i.e. in terms of income in retirement, compared to income in active age. This is a long-term trend that can be observed and will be extremely dangerous. Not now, but 15-20 years from now, it will create an amazing tension within the Hungarian pension system. When the nationalization of private pension funds took place, and the resulting HUF 3000 billion was transferred into the budget, half of my heart was happy because the country was economically vulnerable, and this money really helped him, but the other half was bleeding to my heart, because by eliminating the funded pillar, it was possible for Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to rely on the word of the one-time Hungarian worker who said that they would protect pensions. Indeed, these pensions are no longer available, as the country has used these amounts in the fight against sovereign debt. For me and for others, it would be a reassuring solution if the government brought the funded pillar back into the pension system, but not through the current voluntary pension funds, but in the form of a general and compulsory savings, as before, either by purchasing sovereign debt and by providing financial cover for future pensions. I believe that this would be a reassuring solution for everyone. [[20.50]] The other solution to the same mass of money, which means several thousand billion forints over the years, is constantly gathering for its management and investment, and it would be if the state could invest the funds collected in this way in a capital guarantee fund, which could in some cases be a return guarantee fund, and would finance the large investments that take place in strategic sectors. In particular, investment in the Paks nuclear power plant could be financed in a similar way from such investments. I believe that the country would be further ahead, and otherwise there would also be a positive consequence that, for example, if the pen goes too far in reducing the costs and, for example, too much energy accounts are held at a level where some service companies are already losing money, then there will be a brake, since people are specifically invested in this instrument, after which they expect a return. So that alone would be a brake on the fate of these funds before the current government. I would like to switch very briefly, my fellow Members, to some of the problems of Hungarian health. Mr State Secretary, I see that we must break certain taboos, even using the coronal virus situation in Hungary, within the health system. The first is the state of private health. This is a valued sector that I also monitor professional conferences, Portfolio and others, which are about this, and in the consensus of everyone, in the future, will spend a significant amount of money on it, which is greater than the current one. However, I see that there is an institutional barrier to the development of private health that the public health system itself represents. What, in particular, do I think, fellow Members, to bring the issue closer to the body? There's a surgeon at the hospital working at the state hospital. The surgeon meets a lot of patients. The surgeon is also financially interested in transferring a significant proportion of these patients to his own paid private practice, which he rarely does in public health facilities, orders there, uses its infrastructure, and provides patients with the services they require in private care. Why is that a problem? Because some medical barons working in public health were particularly against the fact that the Hungarian health system works effectively and well, so that there are no waiting lists and that everyone can receive the necessary health care in time. I think it is important to emphasise this because I remember simply following the example of Telki Hospital with a sad fate out of professional interest and reading the professional opinions on this. Private health simply cannot compete with the medical barons of public health as long as they have the opportunity to acquire customers in the public practice free of charge for their own practice, as patients are personally known and successfully transferred to their private practice in view of the shortages in public health. I think this is a very bad solution, because the doctors themselves are against the fact that public health is functioning normally and effectively. From this point of view, I would very much ask, Mr Secretary, that you deal with the proposal made by the Medical Chamber regarding the abolition of the gratitude money and the increase in medical wages. There are several suggestions from the medical chambers that I disagree with; the abolition of thank-you money was made by me as a better politician at the time. This is an issue which is a systemic obstacle to the efficient functioning of Hungarian health care, and this is important and must be addressed. Another issue that I think should be addressed again is the fact that Hungarian healthcare operates on a solidarity basis, but at systemic level it would be better if some waiting lists could be shortened by co-financing private health. In particular, I think that it is necessary to consider at least that the patient, who is waiting for a medical intervention, is waiting for a hip replacement surgery at the end of a one-and-a-half-year waiting list, if he says that he can add some proportion to this hip replacement surgery to the private health care provider, who will perform this procedure with him and thus shorten the waiting list, he can do so. There are institutional barriers to this at present. Technically, it doesn't require any budget expenditure. It requires the break of a taboo, which points to solidarity-based health care, in fact showing the worst signs of wild capitalism, through the system of gratitude money. So I suggest that we consider this and change this health care burdened by gratitude money in this way. I trust, fellow Members, that I have been able to make several proposals that have been considered, and I have been able to highlight several aspects that I myself have considered important here in Parliament. I would like to thank everyone for their attention, and if I am the last speaker, I wish everyone a good rest shortly. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-11-162	We would welcome the good intentions of the Member, but Mr Secretary of State pressed a button, so Mr Péter Banai Benő has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-11-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I promise you that I will not hold back on your trust for a long time, given the time frame, but I thought that at the end of the debate, there were allegations, wordings to which it is appropriate to respond. One of the fundamental issues that Mr János Volner addressed, and what Mr Gyula Molnár put forward is what country we are building, what is shown by the budget, what is the value choice of the budget that the honourable Parliament is discussing. If I wanted to be very brief, I would say that once again the government has submitted to Parliament a budget that focuses on work and support for families based on its value choice. The whole tax system, the whole fiscal policy, shows this. I think that the system of family tax incentives represents this double choice: those who work and raise children now earn more than they have earned before. And I think that this is the spirit of the draft budget law for next year. I am arguing with the findings that, in recent years, we have not made use of the opportunities, we have not achieved success, whether by looking at employment or by looking at the fact that having children does not represent a financial burden as much as before, I think that we can report positive processes. I absolutely agree with the wording of Mr János Volner that, in the current crisis, we would not offer a long-term solution to the economic crisis, the negative economic situation from outside health processes, by increasing aid. This is why next year's budget bill also focuses on employment and support for investment. In this budget, as has been said many times, many areas have additional resources. Congressman Zoltán Varga recalled his experience four years ago. I must draw first of all from this that the often reviled public-funded health system is only working well if, after an operation, the Member has now been able to report on his experience, which I trust shows that he has received adequate care. This is due, among other things, to health workers. [[21.00]] If, compared to the situation four years ago, you look at how the salaries of healthcare workers have evolved and you ask the nurses or doctors who used to treat him, then I hope you can say that the workers' wages have increased by 26,5 per cent from 1 September 2016, 12 per cent from 1 November 2017 and 8 per cent from 1 January 2018. From 1 September 2016, the salary of specialists increased by HUF 107 thousand gross, from 1 November 2017, by HUF 100 thousand gross, and the basic salary of non-medical doctors and pharmacists increased by HUF 50 thousand gross from November 2017. We know that the wages of health professionals increased from 1 July 2019, increased from 1 January 2020 onwards, and that, in addition to the negative effects of that coronal virus epidemic, we plan to increase the wages of workers and women in charge from 1 November 2020. So wages have risen. There is no doubt that there are still tasks in relation to infrastructure, but if the Member goes to various hospitals in the country, he will see in most institutions that there was some kind of investment. As a result of the increase in wages and the funding of the institutions, health expenditure has increased over the past period. Mr President, Mr President, the budget for 2021 is a budget of cowardice and weakness, and also referred to OECD data. I do not know what Mr President would say about the situation before 2010 when, based on OECD data, health expenditure per capita has decreased and since then has increased. This means in the Hungarian budget that health expenditure increased by 77 percent compared to 2010, with only an 8 percent increase in the 2021 budget. Of course, I repeat, we still have tasks to do, but the statements made by Mr President are far from real. As far as municipalities are concerned, there has been a lot of talk in the last two days about the management of municipalities; I also agree with Mr János Volner in this regard. And for those who are worried about the capital city or the districts, for example, I would like to mention to Mrs Zita Gurmai that state aid is increasing in relation to compulsory municipal tasks in all municipalities. As far as Budapest is concerned, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai did not mention that the financing related to the mandatory tasks of the capital city is increasing by HUF 7 billion, while the financing of the districts is increasing by HUF 21,8 billion. I am afraid to ask you that I do not know what the left-wing Members would think about the fact that their former party mates said that the rich should pay; what would you think of the solidarity contribution which is trying to remedy the financial difference within the municipal system, to which Mr János Volner once again referred. I would like to reassure Mrs Anita Kőrösi that in this year the amount of tourist tax will be obtained by the municipalities by the fact that only individuals who are liable for the tax declaration or the tax declaration of accommodation do not have to pay taxes to individuals; and not by tender, by discretionary decision, but by tender, on a normative basis, so that all municipalities that report this amount will receive this support on a normative basis. I think that, as regards the overall observation made by Mr Molnár Gyula that the budget centralises, there are technical terms for it, such as tax centralisation and redistribution, I must say that these rates are decreasing in proportion to GDP, i.e. in a multi-annual perspective, the budget centralises a smaller part of the income generated and leaves a major additional task for businesses. As regards the division of tasks in relation to municipalities, there were indeed tasks that the State took over and modified in the financing system. I would add that it has taken on not only tasks but also debt, and this is why the management of municipalities today is much more stable than it was before. Please check the accounts for the previous years. Finally, the amendments. It has been said what amendments have been tabled over the last ten years, and how much of this has been supported by the government side. Firstly, I would like to point out that these amendments have typically formulated a radically different economic policy than what the government has represented in the budget proposals. Looking back, I think that the past period can be seen as successful in terms of macroeconomic numbers, changes in standard of living, changes in actions or even in terms of pension developments, and positive for people and families. I am not convinced that if we had chosen a different path, we could have said these positive results. I also draw attention to the fact that the amendments tabled by the opposition side were not technically acceptable. Jobbik has also submitted proposals which, for example, would have spent several times the National Defence Fund in this year's budget. I would mention that if we had accepted these, there would have been no funding at present in the central budget for the control of the epidemic. I trust that the amendments tabled now do not follow the practice of the previous years. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-11-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As no other speakers have made themselves known, I would like to announce that the general debate is adjourned. It will continue at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you for your work. Good evening, good night, everyone.
