u2020-02-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 1st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that 197 Members of Parliament, the national representative and the 12 ethnic advocates have issued their own and family declarations of property. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Spokespersons and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can therefore exercise their rights. Dear House, Mr Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, has applied to speak on behalf of the government today. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-02-17-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, At WHO's first signal, the Ministry of Human Resources immediately began preparations involving the National Chief of Staff, the National Rescue Service, the State Medical Services Center and the South-Pest Center Hospital. On 31 January, the government set up an operational tribe, led by the Minister of the Interior with my co-chairmanship. Members: Director General of Public Security at the Ministry of Interior, National Police Commissioner, National Foreign Police and National Disaster Protection DG, TEK, and the Director-General of the previously listed EMMI background institutions. The operational staff has set out a complete 28-point action plan, most importantly: the National Centre for Public Health is constantly following the epidemiological situation, taking action in accordance with WHO guidelines. He developed a professional procedure for health institutions, for the separation, screening and reporting of suspected people, and laid down rules for prevention. The National Health Centre has developed a method of direct detection of the virus in its own one internationally accredited epidemiological laboratory in the country to confirm or rule out infection within a few hours. The Centre for Public Health shall maintain a continuous 24-hour on-call service. Together with the Directorate-General for Disaster Protection, the State Health Supply Centre assessed the personal protective equipment needs of the institutions, revised the State Health Reserve and launched further procurement. Penalty enforcement has increased the production and storage of surgical masks. At the designated six road border crossing points, the law enforcement agencies, with the National Rescue Service, continue to filter suspected passengers entering Hungary. Cleaning with antivirus at Liszt Ferenc Airport was introduced and hand sanitizers were placed without touching. People from China are controlled by a heat gate. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has kept in constant contact with Hungarian citizens in affected areas and has coordinated the return of seven Hungarians from China under medical supervision, with the help of France. The seven, after two weeks of isolation, were discharged yesterday without complaint. The government pays particular attention to the credible information of the population and takes decisive action against rumors. The police have taken action several times. We have launched two free green numbers to inform the population and provide up-to-date information to everyone through written and electronic media. The Ministry of Human Resources briefed the EU Health Commissioner on domestic measures and attended an extraordinary meeting of EU Health Ministers on 13 February. Based on all this, I can tell you that you are handling the government's weight and prepared in time for the challenges of the coronal virus situation. There is no person infected with crown virus in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-2	In response to Mr. Minister's briefing, the factions have two minutes. First I give the floor to Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP.
u2020-02-17-3	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, About two weeks ago, as Chairman of the Welfare Committee, I initiated a meeting of the Committee and asked for information about the wallets, which I would like to thank all the ministries involved. At the same time, I began my speech by saying that it is our duty to provide information and thorough information to the general public on this matter. Thank God, there is no infected patient in Hungary, right, we know that it is a terribly aggressive virus that mutates rather quickly and spreads quite quickly. I said then that there was no cause for panic, but there is concern, and this concern is primarily expressed in the fact that during the winter period, during the winter break, a lot of statistical data has come to light that is really a cause for concern, even if it was not about the corona virus. A survey has recently been published of Hungary's first place in the European Union among cancer-diagnosed and cancer-dead, and there is no common cancer where we do not take a beating place, whether in women's case of breast cancer or in men's case of colon cancer or prostate cancer. Therefore, I think that there is a very great need for health to be at the top of the situation. Minister has also spoken on this issue and has set an example for people with lung disease to do a great deal. This is undisputed, because one can do a lot to protect one's own health, but I also think the government can do a lot to have CT, PET-CT, MR-service everywhere. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And don't make an appointment to make an appointment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-02-17-4	Now it's time for Gergely Arató on DK's part.
u2020-02-17-5	Mr President, Dear House, The thing is, you're saying that the government is handling this problem on its weight. Unfortunately, this weight is your weight within the government and the weight of health policy within the government, which is completely weightless and not tailored to the weight of danger. I must say that the government's actions are often late and weak. You can still fly to Hungary cheerfully from China, while in several countries this has already been wisely, prematurely forbidden, and it is fortunate that if you do not get to Hungary the corona virus despite your own, otherwise not particularly responsible behaviour, because the Hungarian health system is currently in crisis, it is on the brink of collapse. If this health system had to deal with an epidemic, it would have tragic consequences. [[13.20]] Let us not forget that thousands of people are still dying from hospital infection in Hungary, even according to your statistics, the situation is deteriorating rapidly. For example, in 2013, ten thousand patients were infected by 19 multi-resistant pathogens, 28 in 2018 and a third in Hungarian hospitals using hand sanitizers as well as in the European Union. In Hungary, there are thousands of unfilled medical jobs and thousands of unfilled professional jobs. And then we add that the 250-year-old centralized officer's services have been terminated, which is probably why today, as at the committee meeting, we have been convinced that you and not your ministry are in charge of the defense, but the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Minister of Interior Pintér; it seems that they can at least operate an organization there, even if they don't know about health care. So the situation is dangerous, we are all hoping to avoid the corona virus in Hungary, but it will not be your fault. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2020-02-17-6	It is now time for Mr László Keresztes, from the LMP Group.
u2020-02-17-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the coronal virus is a real, serious threat, it is justified to talk about it at the Parliament meeting, and I agree with my fellow Members, and it must be remembered in one sentence that health is in such a poor state that even if there is no such crisis, it cannot carry out its task. I believe that in this situation, the Minister must feel in particular his own responsibility on this issue. At the same time, it is quite clear that we also have to deal with this problem, so we need to be prepared, and the LMP is of the opinion that there is no strict measure that we would not support in the government's actions in order to preserve the safety of Hungarian people. We would like to draw the government's attention to the strict measures taken by the various neighbouring or neighbouring countries. We would like to propose to the Government that these measures be followed and, for their part, comply with the strictest possible precaution. The Minister mentioned the importance of information. We believe that this issue cannot be met. It is important to tell the Hungarian people clearly what risks they face and what can be done in the area of prevention, and I would also recommend to the Minister and the Government that the money for government information and government communication be redistributed now, and that these huge sums are used to inform the Hungarian people. I have a few specific questions for the Minister. Can the Centre for Population work in coordination with the government office, military if appropriate, and how exactly do doctors, nurses, nurses and nurses prepare for this situation? How can they prepare rural hospitals for this situation? Are the Hungarians involved in various research projects in any way? Will there be enough antivirals? And do you properly prepare educational institutions to prepare for this situation? So, overall, I can say that we will support all measures to enable the government to prepare itself in this extremely difficult situation, and again, I ask that the funds for government communication and propaganda [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] is now being used to inform the public about this situation. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-8	Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue.
u2020-02-17-9	Dear Minister, Your four-and-a-half-minute comment was nothing but a diversion, it was all about Viktor Orbán's failure to stand here today, and he did not dare today to face the opposition and face the Hungarian people after yesterday's infinite defeat in Dunaújváros. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Compared to that, you mumbled for four and a half minutes, something about the Crown Virus, which we have heard in quite detail and, by the way, very correctly last week on the Welfare Committee. That didn't make any sense. And no offense, Minister, but do you really think that you will reassure the Hungarian people about the Crown Virus, who refers to the Ten Commandments in order in relation to the state of health? (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) You're panicking or you're worried, but you haven't given me any answers here. It is no accident that he didn't answer - because he couldn't answer the basic questions of health care, for example, why he had to wait 291 days, or ten months for hip replacement surgery, why he had to wait three months for a gallstone surgery, why there wasn't enough breathing machines for children in a normal flu epidemic, as it appeared two years ago in the intensive care unit, why the number of cancer deaths has been deteriorating for ten years in Hungary, first 26 thousand people, then 31 thousand people, now according to official statistics, 46,000 people are dying prematurely of cancer that could be cured. Take care of this, seriously protect the Hungarian people in patient care, health care, and not distract them in four and a half minutes - it is a serious issue, but - on other serious issues! I also ask why Sándor Pintér did not speak here on behalf of the government, because if we are talking about the readiness of the operational tribe, then I think he can give us more detailed information. We haven't even seen enough masks in the country about the crown virus. We know how they make them, but unfortunately, we also know those masks aren't effective. We also know that 300 GPs are missing from the system. Who's the one with the suspected cases of infection? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Are you sure? Nobody. Thank you.
u2020-02-17-10	László György Lukács, representing Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-11	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for the information, and thank you very much to the Ministry of the Interior for addressing this problem and mobilising forces to protect and secure the Hungarian people. Thank you very much to those workers who have been involved in the defence and who will continue to be involved, whether within the services of doctors, general practitioners or anyone else. It is also very important to keep the population informed - I ask that you pay attention to this. We can also say that, in its own way, the government responded relatively quickly, I would not say that it was exemplary, but quickly and well. And this is where we get to what the others have been pushing: I wish the government would always be this fast and so prepared to respond to the health or health situation. Mr. Minister, there is nothing else, and you know that, as you know, there is a very big problem with the coronal virus epidemic, but it is an even bigger problem that currently 38,000 people die in Hungary in a way that avoids their deaths. It is a very big problem and we must not underestimate the coronal virus epidemic and the virus itself, but it is also a very big problem that, while previously called TB as a Hungarian disease, it is now safe to say on the basis of statistics that cancer is a Hungarian disease, because unfortunately Hungary is at the forefront in both the number of diseases and the number of deaths in Europe. But if we are here, we can also calmly ask whether all institutional networks are ready to treat the virus if it becomes an epidemic, when nearly 600 practices are unfilled, when practically hygienic devices in the hospital are very often to be provided from private collections or other sources. Dear Minister, I am only calling your attention to the fact that if you can respond effectively and quickly to a question with the Minister of the Interior or others, you should use the same effective, rapid action to save health, because today's Hungarian health care must be saved, because not to mention XXI. It will be a century old, but it will not live to see that XXI. It's gotta be from the century. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-12	KDNP's representative, Dawn Juhász. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Thank you for your detailed information on the subject [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] Because it is comforting to hear the news that the corona virus has still not appeared in Hungary, and that Hungarian citizens who have been quarantined for two weeks have not returned from Vuhan, so they have been able to return to their families. It is especially important that we respond to the challenges posed by such an epidemic sober and prepared. In my opinion, proper information can avoid panic, hysteria, attention should be devoted to prevention and prevention. The Government of Hungary has responded exemplary in this respect, as it has already decided to set up the operational tribe responsible for the control of the coronal virus infection after the first news of the current epidemic. Here, I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the work of the operational tribe that focuses on prevention. Their 28-point action plan includes all precautionary, preparedness, prevention decisions and measures. Thanks to their sacrifice, we have a well-coordinated mechanism that is suitable for preventing and managing the epidemic. We thank the general public for their extensive information and for their proper response to the problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-14	For Fidesz, Gabriella Selmeczi is next. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow us to welcome the seven Hungarian countrymen who were able to leave the quarantine in good health yesterday. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There is no corona virus in Hungary at the moment; we intend not to have one. The primary task of the government was to prevent the introduction of the virus. The Hungarian government has worked well, since this goal has been achieved. [[13.30]] On 26 January, ladies and gentlemen, one day before WHO moderates the international threat of the coronal virus to a high level, Minister Kásler will convene the relevant health services and draw up a plan for action, which will be communicated to the public the next day. On the same day Minister Szijjártó informs us that there is no Hungarian involvement in the coronal virus epidemic. On 30 January, the WHO announced an international public health emergency. On 31 January, the Hungarian Prime Minister will set up the operational tribe, which will start working immediately. A few hours later, the 28-point action plan is public, everyone can read it. However, there were opposition politicians who behaved irresponsiblely. At the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee on 7 February, all opposition representatives could listen to the leaders of the operational tribe, Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, Minister Kásler, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Tamás Menczer and the heads of other bodies. They could ask questions without any restrictions for which they had received the answer. They then held a press conference stating that the government's measures were insufficient and that there was a visitation of a mass infection. And DK has put out a politician who's got more people thinking about ice buckets and crying kids than health care. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] My fellow Member, Mr Arató, what you have just said here is typically cannibal policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the government for putting up with this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-16	We will continue with the series of comments before the agenda. Szabó Timea Group Leader, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2020-02-17-17	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday was year review day. Viktor Orbán evaluated his performance in the Várkert Bazaar, and the people evaluated the performance of Viktor Orbán in Dunaújváros. The result is clear: Viktor Orbán and Fidesz have failed, and the united opposition has once again triumphed. I've already heard the Secretary of State answer that Fidesz hasn't even started in Dunaújváros. Feel free to decide whether you're not running now or if you've failed a great deal in this election. In the meantime, let me congratulate Gergely Kálló on his victory and wish him good work. However, the overwhelming victory of the opposition did not come from nothing, fellow Members. The person who listened to Viktor Orbán's year review understood exactly what was happening in Hungary today. Behind migrant, communist, serial, anti-EU and anti-Gypsy rhetoric there is emptiness, shame and failure. If it weren't for emptiness, shame and failure behind what Viktor Orbán said, he would certainly have said why the price of meat increased by 17 percent in January or why the euro was HUF 340. If there were no emptiness and failure behind what Viktor Orbán has to say, for example, he talks about the health situation. But he didn't talk about it either, because then he should have told us that most people in Europe die of cancer, that half a million people don't have a home doctor, or that a nurse working ten years ago has a salary of 220,000 forints. If there were no emptiness and failure behind what Viktor Orbán has to say, then we must also hear something about education. But we didn't hear that either, because who would boast that the children are getting worse, because they are completely exhausted, or that 2 000 teachers are missing from schools, because the government ignores them financially and morally. If there is no emptiness and failure behind what Viktor Orbán has to say, then we hear that 1 million people cannot pay their bills, that more elderly people than last year have died in their unheated home. Your government is a disgrace and a failure! It is a shame that you and Viktor Orbán have been idly watching men murder their children and their wives for ten years. In the last two months, four children have had to die because you have denied the existence of domestic violence for years. 12,000 phone calls are made to the police every year for domestic violence, but we still hear Judit Varga's fluttering and migranting. Emptyness, failure and deception - this is Viktor Orbán's year review. A scam, for example, is the sound of the climate plan. According to Viktor Orbán, by 2030 Hungarian energy production will be 90 percent carbon-free. Too bad that's not true. I'm guessing you didn't tell me, but obviously you meant Paks II. However, Viktor Orbán forgot to add that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will certainly not work by 2030, thank God, there has not been a single cut in this case. Before increasing the capacity of solar power plants, it should be said that there is no non-refundable support for solar panels for the population in Europe alone. But you'll get a penalty for it. Then it should also have been said that if they were to ban the use of disposable plastic right now, then why only the Fidesz MEPs in the European Parliament did not vote for it in Brussels. Fellow Members! From the above, it is quite clear that Viktor Orbán's assessment of the year was all about concealing reality and lying. And since you don't want to talk about reality, you'll have to divert attention from a new enemy. At the invitation of the Dialogue, the members of the Gyöngyöspata Roma community, including Sándor Berki, President of the Dialogue in Nógrád county, sit here. Tell them that their children will be the new enemy because you need a new hate campaign. Tell them now that instead of paying 100 million forints, they spend billions on a lying hate campaign just to keep their power! Viktor Orbán's new enemies are, according to you, the children. Shame on you and shame on you, Viktor Orbán! It is a dangerous and vile game that you are playing with the Hungarian people. And they won't find out, and Orbán doesn't realize that this is exactly what the Hungarian people are fed up with, which is exactly what they said yesterday in Dunaújváros. But we don't represent hatred. [[Defiance on the pro-government side. Dr. Bence Rétvári: All your words were about love!]] We don't represent hostility. [[An uproar on the pro-government side.]] We represent Hungarian people instead of hate propaganda. You can look at yesterday's Duna New Town score. You're still laughing at this, but yesterday's result doesn't show that you're right. We will represent the people in the future and continue to cooperate in opposition and we will expel you from power in 2022 with the parties of the united opposition. Thank you.
u2020-02-17-18	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-19	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Since our last encounter, we have passed several interim elections. In Győr András Dézsi Csaba, candidate of the governing parties, triumphed [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] - congratulations to him - and in Dunaújváros the candidate of the united opposition parties won. It can be said that both results are traditional. Congratulations to the winners. The government is prepared to cooperate with all local government leaders and with all individual constituencies who are responsible for the development of the region in question. Since our last meeting, a number of macroeconomic data have come to light which fundamentally and clearly contradict what the Member said in her speech before the agenda. Of these, let me point out that according to Eurostat data, Hungarian economic growth was 4.9 percent last year according to preliminary data. We are very happy about this, because this is economic growth, this economic growth that has been going on for years, which makes it possible, among other things, to reduce unemployment among the social groups mentioned by you, the Roma. Thank you for the support and performance of the members of the Roma community, who contribute to the expansion of the Hungarian economy and the strengthening of Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How two-faced you are!]] If I may, I would also like to draw attention to one more thing, because I think it is absolutely natural for the opposition to criticize the government's performance within the walls of this House. However, there are areas where national interests should be pursued, not party policy logic. For example, we have the EU budget negotiations in the next cycle, i.e. in the period 2021-2027. In all other countries, we see the government side and the opposition, the conservative and the liberal side fighting side by side to ensure that national interests prevail as much as possible and that negotiations are in the best possible position. Last time, I ran into an analysis that was recorded by a Romanian liberal congresswoman. This Congresswoman would probably be sitting in the same group in the European Parliament as your representative would be if she had made it out to the European Parliament, so it can be said that ideological identity between you is quite close. And this Member argued that the EU funds for which we are fighting are not charity donations, and that Western companies are much more involved in this than Eastern European economies would be, so the western Member States of the Union have a dog duty to support the Eastern Member States, and this should be a national matter that goes beyond party policy logic. [[13.40]] I ask the opposition representatives which of them will appear in the Financial Times with a similar statement, similar op-edje, similar article. When can we expect you to think for once, not in party politics, but in national interest? And when that question came to my mind, I had a scratch written by Kálmán Mikszáth much more than 140 years ago when we were or were on the verge of a country building era like this. Regarding the government of Kálmán Tisza, Kálmán Mikszáth wrote:. Tisza Kálmán's policy is, after all, the politics of the Hungarian nation. And if some people couldn't go the same way, they wouldn't be able to join any of the existing oppositions. Because only the politics of the Hungarian nation can form an opposition. The party formed directly against Tisza, not with the Tisza Kálmán program, is a talk of political grifters, moral dead and ambitious empty-headed people, not an opposition against the politics of the Hungarian nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The resemblance, unfortunately, I must say, Congresswoman, is spooky, history repeats itself. I wish for you to be the opposition of the government, but to oppose the politics of the Hungarian nation with the politics of the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-20	Now it's time for László Keresztes, leader of the LMP. I give you the floor.
u2020-02-17-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Well, I was trying to follow Mr Balázs Orbán's reply to the statement by the Head of the Group of the Szabó Timea, and I didn't really know that I had lost track, but I tried so much that I understood from him that it would be important to have some kind of national consensus. I think that this would indeed be a relief if, for example, we could say that the most serious sin of this government was that it was pursuing a policy that led to hundreds of thousands of migrants from this country because of coercion, and thousands of families were permanently torn apart. And when we raise this to the government within the walls of the Parliament, you say that there is no problem here, that the common EU labour market simply works. I think that the national position is what we stand for, that, yes, children born in Hungary can plan their future here, that Hungarian families should not have to think about emigrating because of low wages, because of economic reasons, because of the government's fundamentally bad policy. I think that this could, for example, be a very good national consensus if we could agree on this. Unfortunately, this has never happened before. And then, referring back to the current events, yesterday there were very symbolic events in Hungarian internal politics. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gave a year-end speech and went further than that, thus evaluating his ten-year government performance, which I otherwise agree with Mrs Szabó Timea. But there was an interesting quote by Viktor Orbán, the legendary boxing champion Muhammad Ali, then on the same day this Prime Minister suffered a serious, rash defeat in Dunaújváros. I believe that this is a symbolic one, and after ten years of failed, failed government, this knockout defeat has beenfallen the Hungarian Prime Minister. I think that, in addition to congratulating the winner in Dunaújváros, supported by all opposition parties, congratulations to the campaign team and congratulations to all those involved in this work, I thank everyone who participated in this interim election in that district, regardless of the side they voted for, but obviously it was very, very welcome and important, so we can say, with a boxing comparison: a knockout victory that the opposition candidate had on the government's candidate and on Viktor Orbán's and the government itself. This shows in advance that there is a solution, there is a possibility for 2022, if we are talking about the change of government, because obviously this government, precisely because it has betrayed Hungarian national interests many times, is ripe for failure. And obviously it is extremely important to have some kind of coordination, some kind of cooperation between opposition parties, but we can also learn from this election in Dunaújváros that it is very important to find a suitable candidate, a candidate who knows the problems of the locals and who can put a program on the table that can really solve the most important problems of a given city or region. This alignment was held in Dunaújváros, and this resulted in the knockout victory that the opposition could have booked, and this was indeed a very important evaluation of Viktor Orbán's ten-year performance. People have given a clear answer on what they think about Viktor Orbán and Fidesz's policy. At the same time, it is very, very important, it will be a long time until relatively 2022, and we have a lot of work to do, and the Prime Minister has taken an interesting turn in his year review, which we have seen in recent weeks: in a few months the Hungarian Government or Prime Minister has come to view climate change as not a Bolshevist trick, but as one of the most important challenges that really need to be addressed. Similarly, they talked about various environmental destructions and their effects. And it's strange to hear from a prime minister after ten years of continuous government that he's talking about not just talking, but acting. It is very interesting, and if we look at how credible it is to see how credible Viktor Orbán is trying to paint his policy green, let us look at what we have seen as action over the past ten years on sustainability and environmental problems. The Fidesz government has destroyed the nature reserve system. He delivered, sold out our most important natural resources. It has introduced an economic policy that seeks to base economic development on enormous energy-intensive assembly plants. Instead of developing Community transport, it destroyed the entire sector. To this day, they deny that we have argued a lot about the fact that the entire Hungarian utility system is on the verge of collapse and hinder the development of renewable energy by all administrative means and by regulatory means. Today, in Hungary, a regulatory system has developed that a wind farm cannot be built next to a settlement, and in return a nuclear cemetery can. That's quite unacceptable. The essence of your climate strategy is a big project, the Paks expansion project, which does not otherwise enjoy the support of the majority of Hungarian people. I think that the real action would be to accept that nuclear energy is neither cheap nor green nor safe and predictable, and that it would be the real action on your part if it were to take a turn in energy policy that would actually lead us to sustainability. And although we do not have many illusions in this regard, the LMP faction is ready to put a lot of proposals in this spring session, which is indeed in this direction. We will be curious to see whether the government really wants to take action against climate change, or whether it will only pursue a propaganda campaign on this. Thank you.
u2020-02-17-22	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The fact is, he has mentioned a number of topics, and it would be really good if we had topics where we could be proud of a performance together, regardless of party policy, and we could be proud of some achievements. It is enough to just think about what economic results the country achieved last year, to think about what ten years are behind us, how employment has increased in Hungary, how unemployment has decreased, how wages have increased in Hungary. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it would be good for us to agree on these issues, and it would indeed be good for us to agree that the preservation of the created world is an important priority, defining our future. We agree, I think, that there is no discussion between us that we must leave clean air, living climate and environment for our children. This is also our sense of responsibility for Hungarian people and our patriotic obligation. However, there is a significant difference between you and your allies and the government's climate policy. Until, in fact, we hear nothing but empty speeches from you, the government is acting responsibly, seeking and finding solutions, creating strategies and implementing measures that can be taken. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Honourable Congressman, The fact that your strange-named party puts a green tag next to its name doesn't mean anything. You are trying to make a political issue out of a question that affects our future and our children. However, action can be taken against climate change, not with words. The Hungarian government does, because the interests of Hungarian families are the first. We are already able to deliver a number of results; Hungary is one of the 21 countries in the world where gross domestic products have increased while reducing CO2 emissions and energy consumption. The EU target for the share of renewable energy by 2020 has already been achieved in 2011 and has been exceeded since then, and 60 percent of domestic electricity production is already coming from greenhouse gas-neutral sources. Perhaps they could be brave enough to take this opportunity and take a bold step and acknowledge that without nuclear power there is no climate-neutral economy, so the use of nuclear energy in Europe should not be restricted but should be supported. [[13.50]] Honourable Congressman, There is also a serious difference between a balliberal and a conservative safekeeping policy and a climate policy that takes national interests into account. As long as you want the Hungarian people to pay for the costs of climate protection, we believe in shared responsibility, and we have also said so in Brussels. Hungary can be made a country with a climate-neutral economy by 2050, but the government believes that the costs of reducing climate change should primarily be borne by those who have caused or caused these processes, by the richest states, by the largest polluters and by the largest multinational companies. The government therefore insists on you not having the Hungarian families pay the costs instead of the climate destroyers, and we will definitely avoid raising the price of food or energy, because it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. The climate action plan announced yesterday sets out decisive measures. On 1 July, we will begin the elimination of illegal landfills and punish the polluters. We want to show you the picture of a clean, tidy and tidy country. We ban the sale of disposable plastics, we allow the redemption of glass and plastic bottles and metal boxes, and we will protect our rivers from waste coming from abroad, we will clean the Danube and Tisza from plastic, we will take strict action against multinational companies operating in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-17-24	Before we move on, on the one hand, I appreciate that Ákos Hadházy's elected representative wasn't hanging his own gigantic business card this time. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] but I am afraid that this is still an interruption to the meeting, so I call on you to stop and inform you that I will ban the meeting for today and I will inform the House Committee of its later sanctioning. [[Dr. Pál Völner turning to Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Dr. Ákos Hadházy continues to keep the sign above the presidential pulpit.]] Despite the fact that he's giving orders to end propaganda, I'll give the word to Ferenc Gyurcsány. You're next. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President! How dare you? What kind of comment is that? How dare the Speaker!! The House's dignity is violated by the Speaker! Dr. Ákos Hadházy raises the board. There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-02-17-25	Indeed, one of the most mysterious parts of yesterday's Prime Minister's speech is that he has become a great fighter of climate protection from the government and the head of government, which speaks of climate hysteria. It would be nice to understand what can be played in the minds of the pro-government representatives and the Prime Minister. It was difficult to decipher, but then I realized, and thank you very much to one of the members of the government with a doctoral degree for helping me with this, when not so long ago you said that Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate activist, drew attention to climate change only because she wanted to take pictures with Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai is laughing.]] To be honest, if the Prime Minister's dream was the same, we could have worked this out in a simpler way. [[Delight and applause from DK's ranks.]] Next time, let me know. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]] I'm at your disposal, and then you don't have to bring such incredible communication, political, idealal twists into your politics, which has really been a puzzle for all of us. Of course, we can see that the Prime Minister is in good mental and psychic condition, because he says nothing less than that we have been through the most successful ten years of the last hundred years. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Look, obviously the only question is what we consider a success, what is the criterion of success. If the criterion of success is that Hungary, as a result of your tax and contribution policies, is in a strange way a place in Europe where the income differences between families and households do not decrease most, but grow, then they are really successful! So if you wanted the difference between the poor and the rich to grow, you'd have your hats off, you'd be successful. If the success is that waiting lists are longer than ever, if the success is that we do not have enough doctors and sisters, if the success is that most people in Hungary die so that otherwise the disease they suffer from could have been prevented, if health care were good, you are fantastically successful, indeed. If success is that, according to all international surveys, the results of the Hungarian children's knowledge have deteriorated substantially over the past ten years, that every fifth school lacks a teacher, they really did it. Well, try a little more, it'll be more successful than ever if it's a recipe for success. If the success is that since you have been in government, the difference in living standards between earning families, workers and those who are already retired is radically increasing because of your pension policy, well, you're doing this very successfully, well, hat off. It's no coincidence the Prime Minister wouldn't dare talk about it. The question is never when the Prime Minister speaks with a comprehensive speech, appreciating the last year's talk, but what he does not talk about. Well, he didn't dare talk about that - no wonder. Well, what on earth can you say about that? ! I have an expression for it, which I use for this, it's spoiled, and I use different words in it from time to time. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks.]] You've spoiled it, ladies and gentlemen, for the last ten years you've served the common good, not the common good. You've served to make a few, few, rich, live, and the majority suffer in this country. If the success of not talking to the Hungarian Prime Minister is a self-respecting EU Prime Minister, then it is a success Of course, no wonder, no wonder, it's not easy to concentrate when you have a sticky hand. Yeah, I'm sorry, he's got ink on his hands, I was gonna say [[Defiance in DK's ranks. An uproar and interrogation from the pro-government ranks, including, "Do you say ink?" Some people just have ink on their hands.]] Then it really can't be easy for him. By the way, as my colleagues have said, people appreciated last year in Dunaújváros: they sent you to hell, to the hell of politics. You did the right thing. I hope that, after yesterday's vote, the opposition will win not only in Dunaújváros but also in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-02-17-26	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, First of all, allow me to say that in the case of ink, we would not accept a lecture from you. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President, you can't insult him.]] What concerns yesterday's election is a very instructive choice in a number of ways. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy lowers a sign from the press box above the pulpit, with the inscription "The Prime Minister's Majority!"]] If I add your statements in the last few days, you will confirm this, because after several years of hiding, you are less and less trying to hide that you are trying to lead the entire left. A few weeks ago, the president of the liberals was pulled in, and now he's sitting in your group, and this weekend, Jobbik was pulled in, which seems to be giving up the last crumbs of independence. So the span of the Gyurcsány party now extends from liberals to Jobbik. So even though the biggest video-sharing portal of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party has been deleted, it seems that the Hungarian left cannot erase you from its memories, nor can it be seen from its future. In this respect, one of your television interviews, which you gave recently, where you said you might not be the Prime Minister's candidate in 2022, is very instructive, but you definitely want to control from the background. And he said something else, and he said it would be good for the country. Now, that's the point where you fall out of your hands with the wrench in it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Stolen money!]] Book, wooden spoon or whatever. You say that it would be good for Hungary to have Ferenc Gyurcsány in control again. Now, we already have some experience in this regard, and you have now silenced in your speech: hundreds of thousands on the streets, vulnerability to multinationals, collapse of economic indicators, paying health care, inciting Hungarians against Hungarians, 12 percent unemployment. [[14.00]] I just mentioned a few things, but let's not miss one thing: continuous privatisations of the harmful kind. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] If you want to know the long-term consequences of this, see how many hundreds of millions of dividends Ferenc Gyurcsány takes from his companies every year to come in here and teach democracy and refer to the poor. He leaves the confiscated villa and teaches us all morals. It's unworthy! The thing is, it's the same production you showed during your administration, only now you're young in sneakers and you're doing it on the Internet. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] If I recall correctly, you said yesterday that Hungary has been among the losers for the past ten years. The thing is, if there hadn't been a government change in 2010, he would have been one of the losers. But let's look at the facts. Under your governance, the economy has shrunk by 7 percent, now it's growing by 5 percent, and it's not the first year. At the time, hundreds of thousands of people were trapped in foreign exchange loans, and now there is no foreign currency credit. Then you were under the rug to get a little more IMF credit. We've paid it back today, no IMF loan. [[Gergely Harvestó: There are other loans!]] Then there was almost 12 percent unemployment, now 3 1/2. And as far as doctors are concerned, today there are 6,000 more doctors doing their job in Hungary than in your administration. Dear Chief of Staff, The thing is, this isn't your Balatonress. The figures and the facts are the truth about the Hungarian economy. We do not say, we do not claim that there is nothing to be done, but we do not want to take lessons from the mounds, the country-wreckers, on the subject of country-building. The thing is, whatever you're planning, we're patient, and we're prepared for anything. We don't expect too much from you: hundreds of tricks, but it can also be, as I look at it, thousands; misleading voters in the morning, noon and evening; and power pacts with those against whom a few years ago were protested in rows full of people. So here's the thing, Mr. Group Leader, is that this country was almost destroyed once. In whatever costume, whatever lineup they're in for the next few years, we're not gonna let them do it again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-17-28	Now it's time for the head of the MSZP faction. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2020-02-17-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! For the first time since the adoption of the scandalous mouth lock law, Parliament has met. And we also said that this restrictive regulation, these rules, comes from the same fear as many other regulations restricting civil society organisations, the freedom of scientific and cultural life or the autonomy of local governments or the independence of the judiciary. We also said that we would never bow to the autocracy. A freedom-loving country, such as Hungary, cannot be held hostage by a self-indulgent and narrow elite! This was expressed by the voters at the municipal elections last October in county-righted cities, in the capital city, in many settlements, but this is the will expressed by the voters in Dunaújváros at the interim parliamentary elections, where, if you can say so, it may not be inappropriate: the candidate of the Fidesz elite has been beaten as ice on the border. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And in Győr?]] Congratulations to the candidate from here, too. Thanks to the supporters, the activists for their work. The way we are going is good, honourable opposition Members, that is what we need to go on. There's a few things we can't pass. We can't go past the fact that the forint's exchange rate - if it's not too indecent again - sank under the bottom of the miner's frog. The forint has never been so weak. Once upon a time, a former Soros Scholar, who allegedly had never lied - yes, you're right, Viktor is his first name - so he once said that safety was part of people's trust in the money they're getting paid for. Then how can you allow people's salaries, old people's pensions, to be reduced from month to month? Is your right hand paralyzed, the genius of the Carpathians? Then we suggest that you use the left if you can. Ladies and gentlemen, The weakening forint shows weakening governance and increasing inflation. The weakening forint and increasing inflation can be good for the multinationals, but it is not good for the working people. It's not good for pensioners, it's not good for families, because their pensions are getting less and less worth their salary. Food prices and rent prices are out of control, and you're not doing anything. Let's just say you're robbing pensioners with a 2.8 percent pension increase. They get worse every year because they do not guarantee the value of pensions. We, on the other hand, want to catch up on low pensions, and we want them to take into account the rise in wages. But there is also a need for a greater wage increase, at least in the public sector, because the decent and sacrificing work of hospital workers, educators, social workers must be paid for the benefit of all of us. Therefore, when the Prime Minister holds a year-end, it is good to know that he speaks only on behalf of the corrupt Fidesz elite and his oligarchs, not in the name of honest, decent people. Because it is not honest to attack judicial independence and judicial decisions! It's not fair to break the rule of law, to run a corrupt machine. It is not an honest person who undermines freedom of the press, reduces the freedom and freedom of science and culture, and attacks autonomy. Let us say: Viktor Orbán and the corrupt Fidesz elite do not represent the Hungarian people, they do not act in their behalf, and they incite hatred among social groups so that they can rouse freely behind the scenes. The Fidesz elite is guilty, has no right to judge the courts' decisions, has no right to represent an honest majority, and has no right to incite, to provoke hatred. Fidesz's autocracy has become increasingly irrational. Therefore, the time has come for us to join forces, bringing together moderate conservative forces, multicolored democrats and green leftist movements, to create a new real republic, a state of chance, and to stop the power madness. This is why we work for our future together, Hungary. [[György Balla: For the Republic! Add that, too.]] And another piece of advice: regarding levitation, my respectful suggestion is not to take an example of Zsolt Borkai. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-30	I give the floor to Secretary Pál Völner, please.
u2020-02-17-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It seems that Mr Hadházy's performance shifted his comments a bit from the content of the original speech. Perhaps this phenomenon has also demonstrated that the kind of mouthlock that would have been included in the title - and I think it would have covered the regulation of Members of Parliament - has made the view that there was no need for regulation to protect the dignity of Parliament; and that the kind of bulge that some opposition Members have allowed themselves to do here before, will be eliminated, or, hopefully, with the exception of one or two wild boars who have been beaten up, gives us the necessary regulatory framework not to risk them moving in this direction. It was also said in the debate at that time that, in the majority of European countries, the rules do also apply to Members of Parliament. The only reason I say this for information is that if you will debate what sanctions will be imposed after this action, you will see that this is not an unprecedented phenomenon and not a Hungarian phenomenon. But to add a few thoughts to what has been said - which has taken such a turn - we have heard bitter words here about the exchange rate of the forint. I would like to draw the Member's attention if he has followed the events of the last twenty years, that, after 2002, socialist governments have stopped access to the kind of housing that has made it possible by means of forint loans for families to get home, and you have indebted not only the state, companies, local governments, but also the families, through forced introduction of foreign currency loans. We were in a very delicate situation in 2010, because we had to stick to the forint exchange rate despite the fact that in an export-oriented country the exchange rate cannot be a primary objective, but rather that jobs should be jobs and those jobs should produce export-capable products. [[14.10]] Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, said earlier that we managed to reduce unemployment from 12 to 3 and a half percent with this economic policy, which focused on exports, and allows advanced industrial sectors to enter the country and the type of economic operation that allows continuous expansion and development to prevail. Of course, you can attack this, you have marched in the opposite direction: debt, borrowing foreign currency loans and all that has resulted in job losses. Mr President, you mentioned the issue of inflation. If he hadn't followed last week's events, the central bank would have said in this case that inflation would naturally be monitored, monitored, intervened if necessary. The kind of alarm that is being said here in relation to pensions is simply a slippage to be taken into account, because you know very well that every year one of the elements of the pension correction is inflation monitoring, so the value-proofness of pensions, as promised in 2010, is constantly ensured by the government, so if inflation is accidentally higher than the level projected in the fiscal law, this will always be compensated. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] So I'm gonna ask the congressman to give up this kind of alarm. We heard him speak when he shed crocodile tears over the health situation. Health professionals are currently running a 72 percent wage increase program. We know that very well, and we have discussed this several times in this House. To say that the situation of health workers is not addressed by the government, it is one of the strongest slides. The word "hate" has been spoken; I believe that, after such inscriptions or after the opposition parliamentary action in 2018, you have no right to accuse anyone by making them hate to break social standards. Not to mention that this kind of hatred that appears in the fact that they want to jump into groups by managing so-called NGOs in this country is also related to you. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] And with regard to the independence of the courts, I challenge this, and the judgments of the court are respected by this government. [[Intercoms from the opposition, including Ágnes Kunhalmi: But he does not pay!]] The fact that politics retains the opportunity to express an opinion on it or to change this situation through regulators is our duty. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-32	He applied for a pre-meeting speech by Peter James, Jobbik.
u2020-02-17-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On the weekend there was an interim parliamentary election in Dunaújváros. Well, fellow Members, it was fabulous. You, beloved Fidesz, have believed for years that you can do anything in this country. They think they can steal, urinate, threaten, show off without consequences. Then came the Dunaújváros Goose Matthias, who beat you back three times. In 2018, you were defeated in Dunaújváros at the parliamentary elections, in 19 at the municipal elections, and now in 2020 at the interim parliamentary elections from Gergely Kálló, whom we congratulate here too. Dunaújváros showed that three is the Hungarian truth. The first truth, fellow Members, is that you don't think Hungarians are stupid, because you're miserable! Yet you've been doing it for years. You post a poster in the country that Hungary is growing stronger, and you think that this will make the Hungarian pensioner and the Hungarian worker believe that there is more money in their pockets. You can't buy anything from the slogans, fellow Members. You can write in the Hungarian sky that Hungary is performing better, but believe me, everything will be revealed at the cash register in the store! It turns out that with such inflation and such a price increase, it is worth 2.8 percent pension increase and 8 percent minimum wage increase. So we must not fool this country, fellow Members, but govern it and govern it well. The second truth is that the money doesn't belong to the person who steals it, it belongs to the person who works for it. You think that if something belongs to the state, it's actually not everyone's, it's yours. You own the public property, you own the Balaton, you own the Tokaj Mountain; if it's profitable, you own the Mátra Power Plant, if it's lost, then of course it's the people's again. In particular, you are taking millions from the workers' pockets because you think you can do this without penalty, because the prosecution led by Péter Polt will not punish you, and you are right about that - only the Hungarian people will punish you if necessary, three times. The third truth says: He shall perish by the sword, who shall take the sword. You fellow Members are slowly taking a sword against the whole country. You think, as Mátyás Rákosi thought, that anyone who is not with us is against us. You consider almost everyone who doesn't bow to the regime an enemy. It is considered to be an enemy, in your use of the word, to consider civilians, factory workers, trade unions, teachers, scientists, actors, anyone who is willing to think in this country. Whoever bows to you will be rewarded. Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary for Lying [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Apparently, he received a reward of HUF 2.6 million for bowing. Isn't that right, comrade? That's right. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] Meanwhile, the paramedic who saves lives got 4500 forints at the end of the year. It's pretty amazing. Shame on you! Fellow Members, Viktor Orbán evaluated the year yesterday, gave you an "A." But the people appreciated you, too, and they got inadequate. Be reasonable, learn from failure, and change, change your politics. Just like Jobbik changed his own policy. [[A lot of publicity, interruptions and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] And before the government parrot speaks, yes, Jobbik was created in 2003 against thieves. It's just, you know, you guys showed up in 2010. Two-thirds came in, and then a maniac came along. [[Uproar and interruptions from the ranks of the governing parties, including: This is difficult to explain.]] And everything's changed, people! Because we have to realize that you are not only taking our money, but also our rights, our justice, our freedom, our lives. If anyone tries to kill the nation, then we Hungarians who think in a nation have a duty to cooperate with those from whom we are separated by worlds. And make no mistake, no one will ever avoid accounting, and I am the guarantee. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] But let's not discuss the possibility of change, I beg of you, from anyone. I do not dispute the possibility of change from the left-wing parties, and even from you, from the Fidesz Members. Change, learn from us. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We've changed, too. We did not call back from his mandate the Gregory Kulcsár, who humiliated a historical tragedy. We learned from the past and closed the past. But fellow Members, the Gergely of the Kulcsár has his own Gergely, it is called Viktor Orbán, but he did not shame a monument, but he spit on an eye of a country when he said no to the Wage Union, but said yes to the Slave Law; when he made corruption systemic; when he exploited the people on minimum wage [[Interview from Fidesz: Doubled the minimum wage.]] ; when he is a pissed-off Dumpster, he is able to say that he will take satisfaction in his own people if he disagrees with him. Colleagues, in Dunaújváros, you were beaten by a Goudas Matyi, learn from it and show some respect for the people, because if you do not do this, you will not be a Goudas Matyi in 2022, but 106 will teach you a lesson, honor and honor. Trust me, we're getting ready.
u2020-02-17-34	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Allow me to quote you at the beginning of my reply: today the general public opinion in this country is that Fidesz has cheated on this election. Not so long ago, after the election in 2018, he even accused the head of the National Election Office of fraud. I'm bringing this here because yesterday the vote took place in the same electoral system, the same leader of the Election Office, but you don't object, or if I perceive it correctly, you're proud of the result. Two things come from this. One is that the Hungarian electoral system is democratic [[Noise, uproar in opposition lines.]] Gives everyone a chance to win. And the other is that you didn't tell the truth before, you lied and you misled the Hungarians. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] In the last two weeks, you have been silent about this, but there have been two interim elections in two places, one in Győr and the other in Dunaújváros. One election was won by Fidesz and the other by the candidate of the left coalition, and it doesn't matter now that he's wearing a better costume. The parliamentary balance of power has not changed, the paper form has prevailed, but in any case, we wish all winners good work, the government will work with all elected leaders who are interested in building and not fighting. Now everyone has the opportunity to participate in the country building. As far as your policy is concerned - that's what he said - when he brought it up, yesterday's election virtually finalised the process that started a few years ago, that Jobbik had picked up its tent and switched from the national side to the camp on the left, and now they may have moved their toothbrush. The thing is, you're not shooting a cape, you're shooting a whole wardrobe, one of which is the tiny pants and the red vest. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[14.20]] You're all kinds of things now! - but one thing missing from this opposition creation is the heart, because the raw hunger for power is in its place. [[Moraj from the benches of the opposition.]] You, Mr Group Leader, often refer to the fact that you are on the side of the people here in this House, but how well we saw it a few weeks ago in Ozdon. The mayor of Ozd was worthy of swimming, so he took out the swimming pool at a price that the guests had to leave early. You are on the party of the people as much as Comrade Bastion was. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Crying from the pro-government benches: Dumpster! Applause from the benches of Fidesz and KDNP.]] Which, by the way, can be seen from the fact that while in this House there is a loud demand for wage increases, in places where they are in a position of responsibility, such as mayor, nothing has been done, but nothing has been done. Dear Chief of Staff, You can't raise your voice so much here, you can't provoke me enough to cover up the obvious fact that Jobbik has made a pact with those who once pushed this country to the brink, or, as you put it, with thieves. One or two left candidates may be admitted, but Jobbik fell from 20 percent to the 5 percent threshold, and you are personally involved in this. [[György Balla: That's right!]] You're gonna have to deal with it. [[Gergely Harvestó: They just had a cleanup!]] I suggest we recall the earlier sentences of James Peter. I quote: The goal of the Gyurcsányek is not order, but the acquisition of power at any cost, if necessary, in the face of their former principles. You have now applied for membership of this club and have received it. By now, the Jobbik has finally become one with the left, whether we look at it with a magnifying glass or from a distance. From here, I think there will be no going back, the joy of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the responsibility is yours. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-36	On behalf of Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the KDNP, he applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-37	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose no one gets their head on the news that opposition representatives are criticising the Prime Minister's year review, even if these speeches do not differ from what was said in previous years, regardless of the content of the year evaluation. Of course, it is also true that pro-government representatives quote this speech. I'm gonna do something similar when I say that. This year's evaluation yesterday is divided into three parts. The first was about Trianon, the second was about the last ten years, and the third was about the future, which I think we deserve to listen to right now. The evaluation in Trianon and the results of the last ten years have given us the same idea, and I think we should pay attention to this: this is self-assessment, national self-assessment, commitment and - let's add - recognition of competence in both cases, since after Trianon we recovered from the country and from the financial crisis in 2010. I'd like to draw the comparison of boxing here, because it takes technical maturity, it takes strength to raise someone's hand at the end, but actually, if there's confidence in a contestant, he has a chance to win the match. I believe that the first two parts of this speech were about national self-confidence and responsibility. But let's talk about the third part, because it is important for us to talk about it here, and this is the next difficult years, the idea of preparing for it, first of all the climate crisis. Look, my fellow group leader mentioned the national consensus here. On this point, I would say that a common ecological thinking is beginning to develop, and the great British philosopher Scruton said: conservatives add the idea of territorial attachment to ecological thinking. What does that mean? The respect, love and attachment to the home and the wider home, to our environment, to our country appear in ecological thinking, as it reflects a kind of attitude. But let me add the Christian Democratic idea, which is creation protection. This is a 2,000-year-old attitude, which, if it were in all humans, would not be an ecological problem, since the recognition of the laws of the created world and the command we all know and read about cultivation and guarding would not be an ecological problem. One more thought on this issue. I think that local solutions are obvious for us and for the Hungarian people. If we look at the climate action plan the Prime Minister was talking about, that's exactly what this is about. Let me just mention in the headlines a part of this: 90 percent of energy production will be CO2-free by 30, a well-known ambition; the elimination of illegal landfills - who walk in the woods, who sees what it is, and unfortunately, despite taking them again and again, these landfills will be returned; the banning of the production of disposable plastics; the support of SMEs for the use of renewable energy of $32 billion. But I'd like to highlight the tree planting program. It is also the opinion of professionals that what we can do most before climate change is to plant trees, and if this measure is achieved, which has already been published in the intentions of the wallet, then we have taken a step in this area, not only towards local solutions, but also towards global solutions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-38	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2020-02-17-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Indeed, if we think about and want to take care of future generations, we need to deal with population loss at the same time, and also with a healthy environment for future generations. Obviously, if someone does not think about what will happen to Hungary, here in the Carpathian Basin, in a generation or two, it is a little bit more difficult to explain to whom exactly they intend to pass this planet on to healthyly. Therefore, it is important to address population issues at the same time so that every desired child can be born, and the question of environmental protection, so that these children do not become involved in an over-consumer society, not in an economic system dominated by the advertising of multinational companies, which is based only on shopping, shopping and consumption, which, of course, brings with it the purchase of as many products, as many articles, many of which finish their activities quickly in the trash, but really think responsibly, protect our environment, and besides it, in our everyday habits, we only buy or burden the environment with as much as is absolutely necessary. Since 2010, the government has set its primary task of supporting Hungarian families, which is why it is reflected in the adopted budgets, not only in words, not only in declarations, not only in declarations, but also in concrete legislative amendments. There has not been a year since 2010, when family support has not increased from one year to the next, introducing new family support measures. So in ten years, we increased the resources for families by nearly two and a half times, starting from the neighborhood of HUF 996 billion to HUF 2228 billion, raising the resources that the Hungarian government offers to Hungarian families as family support. The opposition accusations that said that they benefited few people were not true and that they were not available to many. If I look only at the family-type tax system, 95-97 percent of the families can benefit from this discount, the number of families is hundreds of thousands and hundreds of thousands of families who are able to make full use of tax and social contributions, i.e. they do not pay taxes or contributions. [[14.30]] There's obviously a left-wing liberal alternative to family politics, it's called illegal immigration. Elsewhere, these amounts are raised far above expenditure on green or industrial development and enterprise development. In Hungary, we believe that family policy and family support should be used as much as possible. Over the past year, the family protection plan has fulfilled its expectations. A total of 113 thousand families have requested it in one year, and we were able to help Hungarian families with HUF 643 billion. Baby shower support was applied for by 68,000 people, worth HUF 531 billion. That's how far ahead these young families are in implementing their own life plans. 24 000 people have already applied for car shopping support from large families, the village CSOK has been claimed by 7 000 people, and the interest-supported loan for the purchase of used apartments has been used by 5 thousand families of several children in the last year, and we have been able to help reduce the debt to housing for HUF 1-4 or more million. The cradle is also being developed, because when we took over the government in 2010, there were fewer than 30,000 cradle seats, and now there are more than 50,000 cradle seats in Hungary, and this rate will not fail in the next two years. The Grandparent child was also introduced, which aims to ensure that young grandparents, who are still active, can become involved in everyday child rearing tasks, and that the four - child mother's personal income tax exemption has also been achieved. It is often demanded of the Balliberal side that the differences between the incomes of women and men be reduced. But when such a proposal comes up, which for mothers with four children, who have probably spent a long time outside the world of work and have worked on raising children, and therefore have lower incomes than those who say, in those 10-15 years, while they were in a fit state, have built their careers, now that they have become personal income tax-free for the rest of their lives, this can effectively reduce the gap between male and female incomes. Such measures were not only not introduced on the left, they were not supported when we brought these decisions to Parliament. We would like to continue this family-friendly and climate-friendly policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-40	It is now time for Congressman László Horváth, on behalf of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to welcome our Hungarian guests of Gypsy origin with great respect. I'm sorry they're gone. Gyöngyöspatán, a young man, said weeks ago that the power of the law cannot justify injustice, and although they often tell us that justice is not justice, it is justice, but justice, if it is necessary, still asks for a word. Now many feel that their sense of justice has been wounded. They do not understand, and they do not consider it fair to punish an entire settlement unjustly, unilaterally and disproportionately for the perceived or real grievances of the minority, which, I note, was also partly allowed to be proved in court. Because this compensation to Gyöngyöspata would mean immediate bankruptcy if you paid for it, so you could have invited the representative board of Gyöngyöspata to the lodge. And even more than 80 percent do not understand how those who forced the majority to back out of their own school can now receive compensation in cash. The parents of 86 students who did not go to school in Gyöngyöspata this morning could also have been invited because they were excluded from this school. And the majority do not understand why compensation is due to those who couldn't be taught or studied, who didn't respect their teachers or their associates, who threatened, humiliated, abused their teachers, who could have invited abused students and abused teachers. And you could have invited those who didn't go to school many times and a lot, yet they still deserve the full amount of compensation. You could have invited those who were not in school for 200-300-400 hours or 550 hours. And the majority ask how it is that everything is the responsibility of the school and the stigmatized teachers, and that the students and families involved, who are now expecting compensation, and who have not sent their children to school properly and fairly, are not responsible for anything. And why is it, and is it good that this damages suit focuses on and makes a model that says that those who don't respect their teachers and associates and don't learn can eventually get a lot of money, of course, only when there's a legal protection organization, a good one, who, of course, is funded from abroad? We're not so surprised that George Soros is the donor. But Gyöngyöspatan didn't come up with this on his own either. The result of a well-designed and organized money-making operation is what we now face. Gypsy students and families were lured into this trial only with the promise of money. It is good to see that this organization - and observe the following days, because they will prove the truth of my claim - segregation was just an excuse, Gypsy families are just tools, because what matters is that it achieves its political goals. What is the political goal? Nothing new; to accuse Hungary of ethnic segregation, racism, Gypsy persecution, to report the country, to put it on the bench of the accused, and, as they say, to try some kind of criminal prosecution against Hungary. Is it fair that they do this to a country where Gypsy people are working again in unprecedented numbers and have a decent source of livelihoods for Gypsy families? Is it fair to do this to the country where crèches are built and expanded? There's a brand-new cradle on Gyöngyöspatán. Is this fair to the country where kindergartens are built and expanded - the kindergarten has grown in Gyöngyöspatá and we are about to renovate the garden of the kindergarten - and where the government is renovating schools? In Gyöngyöspatán, there was 250 million HUF renovation money for the school last year. And there is racism in the country where there is free textbook, Gyöngyöspatán; where there is free food for Gyöngyöspatán children, Gyöngyöspatán; where the government supports the school, Gyöngyöspatán; where vocational training is open to gypsy students - today at noon three Gyöngyöspatai ladies passed a successful exam and received a diploma in Gyöngyös. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] - and there's a scholarship system and stuff? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] - and there's a scholarship system and stuff? (The President indicated the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell. ) Thank you very much for listening. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-02-17-42	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As you know, there is agreement between the government and the governing parties on what is more, a decision has been made to launch a national consultation, and in any case it is worth asking why this is necessary. This is primarily because we see new phenomena that weaken security, and not by definition violate the sense of justice of the majority of Hungarians. As you pointed out, there have been great waves in the trial in Bead Pata over the past few months. This settlement is one of those places where many people work very hard to catch up with the most disadvantaged people. And then a foreign-funded organization comes and sues the local government. The result is known: a fine of 100 million so that such an amount is not freely available in the account of such a municipality to be used for this purpose. The main question now is how to find a solution that benefits everyone, for example, how to provide an educational programme instead of cash for Roma young people who would have a chance to find a job and break out of poverty. Congresswoman Timea Szabó - she was just here, now she is not here - referred to the call for guests in Gyöngyöspata. Now I wanted to tell them one thing, if they were here, that it was this government that had halved unemployment among the Roma, and this is the government that provides free textbooks and free meals for everyone, for every child in the country because we do not want it to happen, which has happened before, that someone cannot send their child to school because they have no financial opportunity to do so. [[14.40]] The consultation sheet will include prison business. As we know, convicted criminals have already filed over 12,000 lawsuits against the Hungarian state on the grounds of bad prison conditions. This is absurd in itself, but even more so, it has cost Hungarian taxpayers 8.5 billion forints. We also know that between 60 and 70 percent of the amounts sued go into legal accounts. We can also remember from the last few months that immigrants who referred to bad conditions in the transit zone have sued the Hungarian state. In the end, the Hungarian state, so the taxpayers, had to pay. This is also a question on which we would like to ask the opinion of Hungarian citizens. And to mention one more thing, in connection with the child murder in Győr, we have seen violent, convicted criminals fleeing prematurely and committing violent crimes. We believe that this practice must be eliminated, but there are also those who believe that it is good for society to have as few criminals as possible behind bars. Which I have just mentioned here, these are sensitive and controversial issues, which is why we would like all citizens to express their views, because it does not matter at all what direction Hungarians set for future politics. The government is ready to act in all areas, but first the focus will be on the hearing. If we look at the consultation, it is an instrument that has already been proven: we have five consultations behind us that have been filled out by at least one million people. [[Gergely Harvester: Of course!]] And I find that very interesting. [[Gergely Harvesto: 22 million!]] that, while left-wing parties are constantly attacking national consultations - if I see it right, they have started now - practically all opposition parties have launched consultations in recent years. Another question is that with much less interest. Even the new capital text includes the possibility of launching a consultation. So, either way, in their hearts, even opposition parties know that this is a democracy-enhancing opportunity. So I would ask them not to attack the possibility of dialogue, but to take a stand on these issues, the situation in Gyöngyöspata, the prison business and the damages lawsuits. We would like to ask opposition parties not to rejoin the side of those who initially initiated these fights from abroad. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-44	Dear Parliament, Imre Ritter is now speaking before the agenda for a five-minute period. I give the floor to the representative, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-45	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr. Speaker, Dear Parliament, 74 years after the banishment of the Germans in Hungary, on 19 January 2019, the government commemoration took place on the 74th anniversary of the abduction and expulsion of the Germans in Hungary. On the same day, in the programme block entitled Captain's Log, launched jointly by the Petőfi Literary Museum and the Petőfi Literary Agency, there were, among other things, visualizations and generalizations of the total extermination of Germanism, which seriously insult the members of the German community. On the basis of the principle of collective guilt, the German community was washed together with the crimes committed by Nazi Germany, and they also made offensive and sarcastic comments about Germanism in Hungary. We were all shocked to hear what was said in the Captain's Log. Together with the National Government of Germans in Hungary, we published the following announcement on 27 January: with deep indignation we learned that on the memorial day of the removal and expulsion of Germans in Hungary, we were heard in the Petőfi Literature Agency's Ship's Journal, a series of shocking and insulting thoughts that shocked Hungarian Germans. The national German government and Imre Ritter, the representative of the Germans in Hungary, consider these manifestations extremely harmful and reject them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For my part, I sent the incriminated programme to the politicians responsible for the nationalities in Hungary, as well as for the culture in Hungary, and asked them to take the necessary measures under their responsibility without delay. I stressed that the announcements of Germanism, including the Germans in Hungary, in the programme block of the Rubber Room entitled Ship's Log, are completely indefensible and unsatisfying. After that, the program Captain's Log was shut down. After the banishment of Germanism in Hungary in 1946-48, on the basis of the principle of collective guilt, after six decades of silence in the last 15 years, Hungarian politics has done much to develop a fair memory policy. On the Memorial Day of Vertreibung held here in Parliament in 2007, Speaker Katalin Szili followed on behalf of the Hungarian government and parliament the Germans who suffered persecution in Hungary. On 12 December 2012, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a unanimous decision declaring 19 January a memorial day for the expulsion and abduction of Germans in Hungary. Hungarian politics has thus set an example for Europe. It is no coincidence that Professor Bernd Fabritius, responsible for national minorities and displaced persons, represented by the German Government, said in his commemorative speech at this year's government memorial day:. Es zeugt von beachtenswertem Geschichtsbewusssein, dass ein Staat an das in seinem Namen begangene Unrecht in der Vergangenheit mahnend und versöhnend - und damit zukunftsorientiert - erinnert. In English: a remarkable evidence of historical consciousness if a state in the past reminds me of actions in his name - focusing on the future - peacefully. This was why it was shocking that such a programme could be performed in Hungary, and the director-general of the Petőfi Literary Museum - after the legitimate outrage - even after that - defended the programme, despite its irresistible content. Szilárd Demeter finally sent me an e-mail last night following the German community in Hungary on behalf of its guests and its own name. Dear Parliament, In the Old Cemetery in Budaörs there is a national monument of the Germans who have been expelled. A short quote from the poet Valeria Koch on the base of the statue was written:. Stoppt schon den kleinssten Haß, sagt rechtzeitig died! The warning of the German poet in Hungarian, who died at a young age, is to say: "Stop even the slightest hatred, tell him to stop in time! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2020-02-17-46	I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész.
u2020-02-17-47	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, According to the decision of the Hungarian Parliament, since 2012 - on a pro-government initiative - 19 January is a memorial day for the abduction and expulsion of Germans in Hungary. In Europe, we were the first to make this gap gesture. The Memorial Day recalls the ignominious communist misdemeanor that resulted in the destruction of tens and tens of thousands of people in the countries of the region, including Hungary, and the persecution of hundreds of thousands of people from their countries. All because they were German, because they wanted to blame them for the horrors and horrors of World War II. Despite the fact that their country, chosen by their ancestors, was considered their home and loved, built with diligence and perseverance, they received vengeance for the sins of others, wrongfully hurting them, causing unspeakable suffering and pain to the Germans in Hungary. Therefore, it is completely unacceptable - like any tragedy affecting any ethnic or religious community - to desecrate, mock, or even question the weight of the tragedy they have suffered. That is why all of us were in pain, because a few days earlier, we remembered the suffering, the betrothed. Honourable Congressman, Not only in words but also in actions, the government has demonstrated its full commitment to indigenous nationalities in the country. [[14.50]] As a result of this cooperation, the parliamentary representation of nationalities, government support and opportunities provided to national educational and cultural institutions and civil society organisations will help them to survive, to pass on their language, culture and identity, and their presence will strengthen our nation; even if we are faced with counter-European aspirations, even if the leaders of some countries still do not recognise the role of nationalities in strengthening their country. We also support the struggle of the second largest nationality in Hungary, the Germans. As a result of the joint efforts, the Hungarian Germans are represented in 406 municipalities, hundreds of NGOs and nearly 70 ethnic educational and cultural institutions, fighting for their survival. They were also offended by the statements of the so-called programme quoted by you, which we reject, we find unacceptable, as we have made clear in the statement. For what has been said, even if it is too late, you have also been followed by the Director General of the Petőfi Literature Museum. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Cancel! Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I would like to add a short thought because sad events or sad quotes do not always occur when those who commit sin then apologize or draw conclusions. Márton Gyöngyösi wanted to list Members of Jewish origin here in Parliament in 2012; no one has ever apologized for this. Peter James threatened the Gypsy in Miskolc in 2012 to make their lives hell; there was no consequence, no apology. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!]] In 2015, Gergely Kulcsár violated the monument on the Danube, which was commemorated by the victims of the Holocaust. In 2019 Ildikó Bangóné Borbély ratted down all Fidesz and KDNP voters here in Parliament. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you! Szilárd Demeter resign! The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Brenner Koloman: The Germans in Hungary will understand what you're saying! Shame!]] Péter Niedermüller said with his racist expressions: there remains a terrifying formation in the middle: these white, Christian, heterosexual men and women are among them; there was no apology here either. [[It's constant noise. Dr. Brenner Koloman: The Germans know who you are! Cancel Szilárd Demeter.]] Dear Parliament, If we want to cleanse our public life of this filth, then Parliament needs not to be maddened, but to be able to argue with one another with respect. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What about Szilárd Demeter?]] And if there is a ignominious, unacceptable act or statement, it must be acknowledged, so you must apologize to the person who said it. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Flórian Farkas is still sitting there! The president's ringing the bell.]] Your party must give up double standards, and there is no need to excuse the person who has committed it; we have done this, honourable Member, thank you for your speech. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!]]
u2020-02-17-48	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. On the part of Jobbik Brenner Koloman, Magyar Zoltán, Z. Kárpát Dániel, Rig Lajos, Potocsáné Kőrösi Anita, László György Lukács; on behalf of LMP Péter Ungár and László Lóránt Keresztes; on behalf of KDNP István Simicskó; on behalf of DK László Varju and László Hajdu; and on behalf of Apáti István independent representative. Dear House, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Election Committee has issued a parliamentary mandate to Mr Zoltán Varga, on the party list of the Democratic Coalition, for the resignation of MEP Zsolt Gréczy. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Mr Varga's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. Dear House, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the specific rules of the House 9. The Parliament shall be informed in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2020-02-17-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy resigned from his mandate on 31 December 2019, so a seat on the Democratic Coalition as nominating organisation has become vacant. This place was issued to Zoltán Varga by decision of the National Election Committee on 30 January. This decision is final on 2 February at 4 p.m., so the immunity committee could discuss this immunity issue today, and the usual documents were submitted to the committee. Mr Zoltán Varga informed us that there is no conflict of interest in him, and therefore the Committee on immunity decided unanimously at today's meeting to propose to Parliament the confirmation of Mr Zoltán Varga's seat as Member of Parliament. Thank you.
u2020-02-17-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted, and the mandate will be confirmed by the Parliament without debate. So I ask this House to justify Mr Zoltán Varga's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has confirmed the mandate of Mr Varga Zoltán by 171 votes in favour, not by vote, with one abstention. Now the elected representative will be sworn in and the oath papers will be signed. I call on the Member to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I am going to ask Mr Dezső Believer to read the words of the oath, and I am asking this House to stand up and listen to it in accordance with our custom. [[The people in this room stand up. Zoltán Varga steps into the middle of the room. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2020-02-17-51	I, Zoltán Varga, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation.
u2020-02-17-52	Dear House, Allow me to congratulate the Member on behalf of Parliament and myself and wish him good luck in performing his work. I would ask Mr József Attila Móring to sign the oath papers and Mr Varga to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Zoltán Varga and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Zoltán Varga standing in the middle of the room: I will fight with all my might for the Republic, Hungary, Europe! Zoltán Varga, first Dr. Ágnes Vadai, then Timea Szabó, Bertalan Tóth, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Péter Harrach, Dr. Máté Kocsis, Dr. Brenner Koloman, Imre Ritter, Lóránt László Keresztes, and Dr. Lajos Szűcs congratulates him. Applause in opposition lines.]] Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament transcripts on the termination of the office of State Secretary and the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcripts of the President of the Republic.
u2020-02-17-53	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. Mr Sándor Bodó, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 14 January 2020. In addition, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Sándor Bodó was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology with effect from 15 January 2020. Budapest, 3 January 2020 Sincerely: Mr János Áder, Mr.László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. István György as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 3 January 2020. Budapest, 20 December 2019 Sincerely: János Áder [[15.00]] Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. On the basis of Article 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Tuzson Bencé, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 2 January 2020 and Article 9 (4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. Mr Tuzson Bencé was appointed State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with effect from 3 January 2020. Budapest, 20 December 2019 Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2020-02-17-54	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of myself and Parliament, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the House Committee, an agreement has been reached on the proposed working schedule of the 2020 Spring Session, which my fellow Members have received with the courier and have been able to get to know on the website, as well as the card calendars containing the working schedule have been allocated to their meeting room seats. I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the spring session, which interested parties have been able to learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office has presented its recommendation to this effect, which can also be accessed through the IT network. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you, I find that the visible majority has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Government has submitted T/9241 on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation. The European Parliament and the Council have also initiated an urgent hearing on this subject. Please, notary Lajos Szűcs to present the emergency proposal.
u2020-02-17-55	Dear Parliament, The rapporteur proposes that the general discussion of the proposal be held on the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament on 20 February 2020 until the end of the general debate on 20 February 2020; the detailed discussion phase should open with the closure of the general debate on the bill, so that the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. § 1 after receiving information pursuant to paragraph 1 but subject to Article 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate.
u2020-02-17-56	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I ask the Honourable Parliament to order T/9241. The urgent hearing of this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has ordered an urgent hearing by 127 votes in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Judicial Committee to report from the President of the National Election Committee on the activities of the National Election Committee in the election of the members of the European Parliament held on 26 May 2019, B/8428. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take a decision and to negotiate with 124 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, invites the designated Judicial Committee to report to the National Election Committee on the activities of the National Election Committee in the election of representatives of local governments and mayors and representatives of minority self-governments held on 13 October 2019, B/8429. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House also asked the Committee to take a decision by 124 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated National Defence and Police Committee to ask B/8528 on the implementation of defence tasks in 2018, the preparation, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Agency. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Committee to take a decision by 124 votes to 53, with no abstentions. I ask this House to invite the designated Judicial Committee to report on the activities of the National Remembrance Committee in 2018 B/8551. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Judicial Committee with 125 votes in favour, 53 against and no abstentions. H/8144 on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and accounts for the year 2018. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/8144. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has adopted the resolution by 125 votes to 53, with no abstentions. It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. decision to amend a parliamentary decision. S/9245 put forward by the President. You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2020-02-17-57	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Anett Bősz, Zsolt Gréczy, DK, member of the Committee of the People's Welfare, Gergely Arató, Gergely Arató, Zoltán Varga, DK, instead of Zoltán Varga, member of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2020-02-17-58	I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/9245. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The personal proposal just presented was adopted by the House with 174 votes in favour, with three abstentions and no votes against. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to interpellation negotiations at 15:9. Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology. [[Representatives of Jobbik, MSZP, DK, LMP and Dialogue leave the meeting room.]] I will wait for my fellow Members to look for more important things. [[15.10]] I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovich. [[For signal:]] I see Congressman Tibor Nunkovics is not in the room. I would also like to give the floor to Congressman István Hiller, who is not in the Chamber; to Congressman Gergely Arató, who is also not in the Chamber; to Erzsébet Schmuck, Péter Ungár and László Lóránt Keresztes, who are also not in the Chamber; to Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, is also absent. Then it's Gyula Budai, who represents Fidesz [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Interpels to the Minister of Justice. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: First of Sixth!]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-02-17-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In recent years, people's sense of social justice has been thoroughly disturbed by judicial judgments, which have obliged the Hungarian State to pay large amounts of financial compensation, namely those who have committed a crime and are therefore serving a final sentence of imprisonment. These prisoners referred to the fact that the Hungarian State did not provide them with humane detention conditions. It is both worrying and outrageous that lawyers associated with the Balliberal side, as well as the Soros organisations, in the vast majority of cases, benefit significantly from the lawsuits brought against the State. It can be shown that nearly 70 percent of the amounts paid for indemnification in prison landed at these lawyers. The ten-billion-dollar industry called prison business is a clear abuse of law, harming the state, and harming public trust in justice and violating people's sense of justice. It is unacceptable that murderers such as the Olaszliszka lynchmen or the Battonya monster sue the Hungarian state for millions. These organizations in prison openly advertise to prisoners how to sue the Hungarian state. The lawyers of the Helsinki Committee and TASZ assist with these trials, and the Hungarian György, known nationwide as the candidate for the MSZP-Party speech. Statistical data show that prison conditions in our country have improved a lot, that in recent years there have been more seats and that new prisons are constantly being built. It must be made clear that in Hungary the means of law must be protected not by criminals, not by criminals, but by criminals. Dear Secretary of State, That's why I'm asking you how the government wants to stop the prison business. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome our fellow Members. We'll get back to work. The answer will be given by Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to this interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-17-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to point out that almost no one thought until 2010 to sue the Hungarian state for prison conditions, even though neither regulation nor circumstances were better before it. After the national civilian side came to government, law firms cooperating with organisations funded from abroad recognised the possibility of obtaining money in damages cases. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for paying the indemnifications for prison congestion, so we have years back data on how much public money has been made available to the convicts. In connection with the indemnification procedure, the portfolio paid HUF 8.6 billion between 2017 and 2019. Sixty-one percent of all payments and 70 percent of the amounts have been entered into a lawyer's account. For a reason, it irritates society that we are paying millions of taxpayers' money to convicts or other prisoners, and we are financing smart lawyers, a well-defined circle that has settled on opportunities. I stress that the problem is not with the defenders who represent their defendants in criminal proceedings, but with those who recruit prisoners in prisons for their own business. This abusive practice damages the state and taxpayers, damages public confidence in justice and violates people's sense of justice. The purpose of prison is not to make criminals rich and become millionaires. The government has decided to suspend the payment of prison damages with immediate effect and to review the regulation. Dear House, Since 2010, much has changed in terms of prison conditions. We have built new prisons; we are constantly improving prison conditions; we are increasing the capacity to ease congestion; the conditions of care have improved; prisoners have had job opportunities, but there is still no reduction in compensation claims. It is important to take into account the social requirement to prevent abuse and to shift the claims for damages for prison conditions to victimal space in the future, thereby resolving the debts on the part of the victims. In view of all this, the Government has decided to launch a national consultation on inter alia the subject of prison congestion. The Government is committed to the establishment by the National Assembly of legislation appropriate to the needs of society, taking into account the outcome of the national consultation, under the authority of society. The most important objective is that the rights of prisoners cannot in any way prevent victims' rights. Of course, human dignity must be guaranteed for all, including for prisoners. In order to restore public trust in justice, our aim is to make the compensation awarded subject to personal payment directly to prisoners or other prisoners, and not to migrate the taxpayers' money to lawyers associated with organisations funded abroad who represent the convicts in these cases. The fundamental objective of the proposed new regulation is to ensure that victims of crime and their relatives' legitimate claims are met in a more efficient and faster way than is currently the case. It is very regrettable that the opposition has refused to vote on this proposal to be put on the agenda. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Gyula Budai to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-63	Dear Secretary of State, Nearly 12,000 lawsuits against the Hungarian state were launched by liberal lawyers and lawyers from the Soros network. This is a more than ten billion-dollar business, and nearly 70 percent of this amount lands on legal deposit accounts. This is an issue that definitely perverts people's sense of justice and completely transforms people's faith in justice. I therefore call on the Government to take a decision as soon as possible to settle this issue, which will resolve these issues with satisfaction and really answer these questions properly. Of course, the question raised in the national consultation will certainly include the opinion of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that some interpellation issues have not been addressed so far because of the absence of its author, I would like to inform the House that, once and for all, the new house rule is 122. In all such cases, where an interpellation representative is not present, the interpellation shall be considered withdrawn within the meaning of Article 5 of that Article. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: They're behind the curtain!]] In all such cases, where the interpellation representative is not present, the interpellation shall be considered withdrawn within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. - Dr. Bence of Rétvári: They're behind the curtain!) In line with this, Tibor Nunkovics is a betterman: " How much does it cost taxpayers to buy the Mátra power plant? István Hiller, Vice-President of the National Assembly, MEP István Hiller's Interpellation on NAT and on the future of Hungarian students; Mr Gergely Arató, MEP DK:. What do we call those who do not like the anti-children's core curriculum? He presented his interpellation entitled "Schmuck Erzsébet, Péter Ungár and László Lóránt Keresztes jointly submitted an interpellation entitled "Why has the Government sabotaged its 10th year to enforce the fundamental right of people to clean air?" And to Mr Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, the interpellation of the government wants to reduce the revenue of the municipalities? As they were not present at the possible time, their interpellation should be considered withdrawn. [[15.20]] So if they come back or come back now, this situation is already happening to them in this case, so these interpellations cannot be said. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation:. Why does the Government put patients in danger by destroying hospital suppliers? It's an address. Since the Member is not present, the interpellation should be considered withdrawn. Member András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a portfolio for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:. What challenges and challenges are faced by the domestic electricity system? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-17-65	Dear Minister, In order to save humanity and our planet, it is not possible to say enough about the serious consequences of climate change. We are in the middle of a long-term process, which has been an important event of the Paris climate summit, where there has been a kind of agreement on how to reduce CO2 emissions on Earth by representatives of the various emission sectors. The countries have made commitments, and these commitments have been sanctioned by an agreement. I think it is important to emphasise that energy production is one of the main causes of climate crisis and climate crisis. The 2019 edition of the International Energy Agency on the world energy outlook published in November last year indicated that, in order to achieve the clear message of the Paris scenario, global climate protection targets should be formulated in such a way as to significantly increase the share of nuclear power plants and renewable energy sources in energy production, thereby reducing the production of high carbon coal-based power plants. In this respect, the Government has adopted the documents of the Energy and Climate Policy Strategy, which intends to make 90% of domestic electricity production climate friendly by 2030. A very important part of this is the operation of the Paks I plant and the start of Paks II. investment and future production of nuclear power plants. It is also important to talk about this because the nuclear power plant - the current and the future - makes a significant contribution not only to Hungary's climate protection vision, but also to significantly reduce its dependence on electricity purchased from beyond the border. On 5 December, electricity consumption reached a new peak of system load of 7105 megawatts, of which 2402 megawatts were imported. I ask the Minister what extent and proportion of the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and new investments contribute to the climate protection objectives and to what extent they help to eliminate Hungary's dependence on electricity supply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Minister, Before I give you the floor, I'd like a moment of your time. With all due respect, I'd like to ask for room service, since I see that the second one is called the second one. In a box, Congressman Tordai probably forgot his camera, so that he doesn't have anything wrong with this camera, and they'll try to find his owner and get it to him. Thank you so much for your help. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-02-17-67	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The issue is also important for the production and consumption data of recent years, since we have the data of recent years, and on this basis it is clear that what the government has decided to do for climate protection is to try to solve both production objectives and climate protection objectives in Hungary in the long term by increasing the share of renewables and nuclear power, which is the only viable way. Hungary's electricity demand has increased steadily over the past period, with an average increase of 1.3 to 1.5 percent, with imports moving continuously from 32 to 28 percent annually, and it should also be said that if any of our other blocks were out of service due to maintenance or even lignite freezing, this import ratio has reached 54 percent. This exposure is so high that the Hungarian State cannot accept it in the long term. So the intention to increase both the share of renewables - said on the Prime Minister's prospectus yesterday's year review - by six times the share of renewables - means that it will reach 7000 megawatts, and the construction of two new blocks of the Paks power plant, the approval of plans, and then the creation of a new nuclear power plant capacity of 2400 megawatts will enable us to continuously meet the objectives from the point of view of security of supply and climate protection. December 5e once again showed - and I regret that there is no opposition - that without a power plant, Hungary's electricity supply cannot be resolved, since 1200 megawatts of solar power capacity was built in Hungary, this afternoon around 5:30 p.m., when Mavir detected this peak performance, 9 megawatts of 7105 megawatts were provided by solar power plants for the national network, 70 megawatts of 270 megawatt windwheel capacity. So it can be said that if we do not have a base power plant and we do not have any other regulatory system than Mátra, then Hungary could meet these objectives only under blackouts and consumer restrictions. So it is very important to increase the share of renewables, there is no discussion with the opposition here, but this cannot be resolved without a nuclear power plant, and here more and more international organisations, together with the Hungarian government, say that climate protection objectives cannot be achieved without the construction of a nuclear power plant. What we need to know is that if we build these two blocks, we generate 17 million tons of carbon dioxide, so if we were to produce this in coal power plants, that would be it. It is also known that in Germany, the electricity price is HUF 38, and in Germany, as an example, HUF 112, because the cost of renewables and electricity produced in other coal plants is significant, they emit 40 percent more CO2 per unit of electricity than we do, and they are the largest carbon users in Europe, using 222 million tonnes of black coal. These are all vital data. With regard to the direction in Hungary, I must say that this is in any way the viable and good way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-68	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Congressman to accept the Minister's reply.
u2020-02-17-69	Yes, I accept your reply to the Minister, Mr President, because the idea that he has outlined coincides with the ideas he has set out in the world order, with the ideas of the world. It is welcome to say that in 2019 the developed world, the developed states' CO2 emissions, decreased significantly and noticeably, one of the important instruments of which was the use of nuclear power plants at higher capacity and the transformation of coal power plants into gas plants. [[15.30]] In Hungary, due to its potential, the use of coal power plants is still minimal, and if we want to maintain our energy independence in terms of electricity and reduce dependence, it is inevitable that CO2-free electricity production can be achieved through the gradual and continuous use of nuclear power plants. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, this House has accepted the Minister's answer. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do Hungarian victims of spontaneous segregation not receive compensation? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Gergely Gulyás also admitted that, I quote: In some departments, Roma classes are formed in schools by non-Gypsy parents taking their children away. So far, the quote. So I did not call the Hungarians Gypsy, but Gergely Gulyás, it is important to emphasize this from the beginning. Despite all these findings, he also said that the government, although not in the form of a cash benefit, fulfilled its obligation to compensate. At the same time, several prominents on the government side boast that segregation on Gyöngyöspata has been abolished. What is it then, Mr. Secretary? According to the Hungarian Movement, segregation should not be abolished, it should be legitimized, and there would be no possibility of damages lawsuits. It should not be a trick, but a radical solution to the problem throughout the country, not only in Gyöngyöspatán, but they do not seem to dare to leave so far. But the problem is not only on Gyöngyöspata and it is not entirely new. They admit that Hungarian families are forced across the country to send their children to other settlements or to a further school - only 86 such children live in Gyöngyöspata - because in some schools their parents simply cannot keep them safe. The blind also sees that these children's right to study is indeed violated, and families are forced to take on extra burden in order to guarantee their safety and the right to study, and this also imposes a financial burden on these families. Don't they deserve compensation from the government? Why don't you ask them that they deserve something, too? Or don't you think? Justice will be fulfilled if we say that the first thing to do is to enforce the rights of fair, respectable children, and not for them, but for those who are unable to fit into the community. Why doesn't the government say that? [[Dr. István Apáti: That's right!]] Why aren't they acting in that spirit? According to our country, we need to break off with the attitude that has been in education for 30 years, poisoning these communities, and highlighting those from the normal classes who make them unlivable. If it's called segregation, you can call it segregation. Despite any stigma, that's actually the solution. I ask Mr Secretary of State for this reason that he is finally willing to pay the compensation to decent families and radically change the approach to protecting criminals, or to continue scratching the surface. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2020-02-17-72	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-17-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The two approaches to this issue in general, not only in the specific case: there are some that are sometimes applied from the radical side, sometimes from the liberal side, which considers this issue to be a matter of fundamental rights, and is only willing to deal with the origin in some cases; and there is an approach that I think can lead to results, which is primarily a social one. It does not examine who is in what color, but who needs help in what social situation, who needs help to catch up with other classmates in learning, who needs help in order to get in a state of health to get a job, who needs help in obtaining skills, and on the other hand, who is talented, who can perform better than the average, and who, of course, needs talent and other help. But whether I look at your position or positions similar to yours, or at the foundations represented by the liberal Soros, there are many times similar foundations, but they regard this as a fundamental issue only and only a matter of fundamental rights, they take it from whose origin it is and not from whose performance it is. If we can move past this, then we can really solve the problem. [[Constant noise in the ranks of Fidesz.]] The foundation, the CFC, funded by György Soros, has been supporting the Soros Foundations in the entire fund for over 90 percent for several years, they also follow the direction, the wrong direction, that they will only bring lawsuits based on origin, fundamental rights and enforcement, which I do not believe will bring anyone closer to individual prosperity. We consider it very important, Congresswoman, in response to your speech, to maintain the right of every parent and child to free schooling, to choose a school, so that every child can go to a school of his own ability, ability, interest, who wants to send his child to a school of nationality or religion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In this case in Gyöngyöspata, those Balliberal opposition politicians were the loudest, when, in 2004, this situation arose, which for some children did not create the possibility of an outbreak of poverty to a sufficient extent. They are the loudest, and those who are now always in favour of this Soros-funded foundation, who have actually done nothing in government positions, through government means, in order to eliminate this situation. Such a trial does not bring the Gypsies, the Gypsies and the Hungarians in any way closer to each other, the Hungarian Gypsies and the Hungarians there, nor bring these people closer to their own prosperity. The founders of the foundation have told us, their goal is to bring international proceedings, to bring Hungary to international courts, and to try to make Hungary look negative. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] racist in many cases. We also filed an emergency request, the district of education and the municipality, precisely so that the decision in Curia could be made as soon as possible. The government was prepared to negotiate with all those involved, and the district and the mayor sent a joint letter to all those involved to agree that if someone felt and sued for damage to the quality of the education, a lower quality of education, compensation for this lower quality education, whether it be vocational training, IT training, language training or any other training. Nearly two weeks ago, we sent this call to all those involved, and no answers have yet been received, but we trust it. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]] that there will be those who are willing to negotiate and willing to cooperate to receive truly lifelong training, not cash, which is obviously running out faster than an additional income from training. Thank you very much. [[Move. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all those who have something important, urgent, to discuss, that those who are in the meeting room please leave, and take their place. I'll wait for Congressmen to sit down. I'll ask Congresswoman Dóra Dúró to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-75	Dear Secretary of State, The problem isn't skin color, it's undersociation. Another issue is, if we create segregation on a professional basis, obviously there will also be ethnic aspects, as this type of behaviour is more widespread among Gypsies. It is hypocritical for you to talk about the right to choose a free school, in Hungarian, and put your hands up. Gyöngyöspatán we cannot enforce the rights of children who want to learn, but they can go to another settlement, they have the right. Yes, Mr. Secretary, these families are the only ones who have to take on an extra burden, which is outrageous. It is outrageous that a parent wants to keep his child safe at school, and your government cannot guarantee in every settlement or school that the safety and rights of these children will prevail, and until they can do so, compensation should be given to these children, not to those who are about to pay it, but to those whose rights are actually violated. For all these reasons, of course, I do not accept the answers. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]] [[15.40]]
u2020-02-17-76	Thank you very much. Dear House, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, I ask you, she accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Member Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What is the obstacle to accessibility? It's an address. As the Member is not in the Chamber, the interpellation should accordingly be considered withdrawn. MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. It does not cover a living with the title of the Hungarian minimum wage. Since the Member is not in the Chamber, his interpellation shall be considered withdrawn. Congressman Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: When will the government implement and support the promises of home care relatives? It's an address. Since the Member is not present in the Chamber, his interpellation shall be considered withdrawn. Dear House, Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: - Could the siege of our southern border by illegal migrants be expected? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-17-77	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks and months, it has once again been pointed out that when the members of the great opposition collapsing from time to time make a mockery of the immigration crisis affecting the whole of Europe and make the government's fight against illegal migration unnecessary, they are constantly wrong. As early as the end of 2019, the government rang the alarm bells about the arrival of another wave of migration that was stronger than ever before. It didn't take much time for us to feel the seriousness of the situation. It happened that a group of angry illegal migrants, nearly 60-70 people, broke the Hungarian state border and tried to enter the Schengen area by force, by screaming aggressive expressions. We should like to thank the staff of the armed security service in the night service and the police for not losing their presence in the face of this unexpected crowd, and they have been able to catch illegal offenders at all times. Dear Secretary of State, We can safely say that the Government of Hungary is still the only one of the governments of the European Union, which is making visible and meaningful steps to curb illegal migration. However, we do not only mean that we can fully protect our southern border, but also that we Hungarians are taking the help where it is needed, and we do not want to import trouble into Europe. In addition, we cannot ignore the victimous work of border hunters, police and the Hungarian Defence Forces, which makes it possible to capture migrants carrying out illegal border crossings with great success. Dear Secretary of State, The situation is with our southern neighbour, but we can say that it is not at all comforting in the entire Balkan region. A series of domestic and foreign news reports that, as in 2015, again significant migrant groups were blocked at the southern border or on their way there. In view of the above, I would like to ask you that another siege of our southern border section is expected, and if so, the police are prepared for a possible attack. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the Member's interpellation will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-17-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value, and Hungary is a safe country, perhaps one of the safest countries in Europe. This has been achieved, among other things, by the fact that in 2015 Parliament made the necessary decisions to protect the southern border, to take part in defence of the border, to strengthen the police and to create the necessary triple protection. We have created the legal strong protection, and we have also built the temporary safety barrier, and thanks to this we can say that we can protect our southern border. But we also said from the beginning that the danger did not go away, because the data show that now 100,000 migrants want to enter Europe, they are on the Balkan route, and if we let them, they would get into Hungary. At the end of 2019, some 8,000 people were illegally staying in Bosnia, and nearly 10,000 migrants were found in Serbia at the beginning of 2020. According to information provided by the UN at the end of January, 112,300 migrants and refugees are present in Greece, and 50 percent more people arrived in 2019 than in 2018. The illegal border crossing is increasingly organised, the smuggling network has become international, and the smuggling of human beings at the southern border is four times higher than the data of a year ago, against which the Hungarian police are effectively taking action. I would also like to say that the border is not closed; anyone who wants to come to Hungary legally is welcome, and we do not allow anyone into Hungary illegally, just as we have done, we will not allow anyone in the future. The events in Röszke on 28 January and the action of the migrant caravan on 6 February also show that we can protect the southern border, protect the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people, but we also say that the danger has not passed. Since such a huge crowd is on the Balkan route to Bosnia, Serbia, it is expected that another experiment will be carried out at any moment. The Hungarian authorities, in cooperation with the services and in cooperation with international organisations, the co-services, evaluate all information, and the police, in cooperation with the defence, will do everything in their power to protect the safety of Hungarian people, the security of Hungary, and Hungary will be one of the safest countries in Europe in 2020. I ask the congressman to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Péter Ágh to accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-81	Dear Parliament, I have come from a constituency where there is a great tradition of defending the country, let us think of Kőszeg and Miklós Jurisics, as well as of Sárvár and Nádasdyak, so I am committed to myself and to every member of our faction in order to protect the country and to meet the challenges of the age in all circumstances. I therefore believe that, as long as these factions give the majority of the parliament of this country, we are standing firmly behind the government in order to preserve security, which is a common value, in the future. We want a lot of strength to do this for all those who serve at the border, and for the government to be able to defend, despite all international attacks, a border protection system that ensures not only the security of Hungary but also the security of the continent. Thank you for your attention and I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, If you have a problem with your vision, would you wait 15 months for an eye examination? It's an address. Mr Ádám Steinmetz is not in the Chamber, so his interpellation should be considered withdrawn. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why are they silent about the scandals of the hospital in Miskolc? It's an address. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is not in the Chamber, so her interpellation should be considered withdrawn. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance:. When will the Hungarian economy become central players for small businesses in Hungary? It's an address. Since Congresswoman Márta Demeter is not in the Chamber, her interpellation should be considered withdrawn. This brings us to the end of the interpellations. Now it's time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter James, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group to accept the person of the responding party or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-02-17-83	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[15.50]]
u2020-02-17-84	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Head of Group and the House that the Prime Minister has to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz... Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás has appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I respectfully ask you, Congressman, you accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-85	Mr President, Dear House, If we think back ten years in Hungarian history, we can remember a very permanent statement from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, the essence of which was that only weak people could want weak forints, and if the exchange rate that we are talking about is above a certain forint exchange rate, then because of the inadequacy of the government, he must resign and leave. The fact is that this happened in an environment where around HUF 260-280 had to be given for a euro. At present, this exchange rate has shifted to 340. At last, the Hungarian National Bank is at last somewhat or only rhetorically, if not otherwise, but intervened, but we can still see that a simple Hungarian citizen is so exposed to the bad forint exchange rate that he simply cannot avoid this situation. We understand, we see that Fidesz-KDNP wants to overdo multi-companies whose consciously low forint prices are used to install cheaper production lines, it is cheaper to raise the Hungarians' humiliatingly low wages, but we also see that the Hungarian people pay the surplus price of this weak exchange rate in a way that amounts to hundreds of millions of forints per year when buying imported products. After all, I would be happiest to have everything covered by Hungarian products in a simple shopping mall. But it is not possible to buy a smartphone in a Hungarian way, so the vast majority of clothing products and clothing products are also foreign, imported products, and now the purchase of vegetables and fruits is very difficult if you want to put only Hungarian products in your basket. So our question is clear: why are you weak people, how long will you tolerate this vulnerable state, and how long will the government and the Hungarian National Bank's conscious forint-weakening strategy continue to be paid to Hungarian citizens? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2020-02-17-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be heard from Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-02-17-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He did not just mention in his speech that the situation had changed fundamentally, primarily not the exchange rate that had fundamentally changed. During the period of Gordon Bajnai, supported by your allies, the exchange rate was 317 forints/euro, and today, I think, is around 333 forints/euro. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Aren't you ashamed?]] Compared to this, at this time, the wages you call the humiliatingly low wages of Hungarians compared to the time when your allies also governed, increased by around 100 percent. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Tell me what happened in 1930.]] So we are now at 80-85 percent this year, but in this cycle we hope to say that average salaries in Hungary have doubled compared to 2010. Plus, you don't even have to use the statistical fraud that your allies used when they were on the government. I therefore believe that the situation is fundamentally different, and perhaps the greatest progress is in the area that there is no longer 1.1 million foreign currency credit contracts today, as was the case when we took over governance. By the way, we have imposed numerous individual laws on banks to play a role in the damage they have caused in part and, in part, the completely irresponsible policy of your allies. Today, we believe that the foreign exchange ratio above 50 per cent of public debt has fallen to 17-18 per cent. So, based on all of this, the change in the exchange rate today is different than before, but I would like to remind you that, while there was an 85 percent increase in wages in Hungary, compared to the 317 Bajnai Gordon peak - with whom I see that they would now become a community - the euro/forint exchange rate is now at 333 forints. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-88	Thank you very much, Minister. For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát is the subject of the word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-89	Mr President, Dear House, Minister, shame on you. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] With this Czechoslovak text, which is far from any kind of professionalism, it would not get much in a residential forum, not even in Parliament. I would like to tell you that neither the Bajnai government nor the Orbán governments are supported by your movements regarding the forint exchange rate. Answer me honestly, be a man. Say that you have a conscious strategy to weaken the forint, a kind of slippery depreciation, and don't lie to us about saving foreign exchange credentials. Well, Minister, you know best, three thousand families are evicted every year in Hungary! What are you talking about? ! You know very well that you have set a quota for evictions of Hungarians. Well, they evict people in Hungary with your vote! What do you think you're doing? ! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your right-wing municipal representatives are being evicted!]] The inflation rate is over 4.7 percent, one of the basic foods has increased by more than 20 percent, and the lowest wage increase for the whole region can be shown in Hungary, because if we talk about statistical tricks, you have the fraud. What did they do? Most of the cafeteria batteries have been erased, and bona fide employers have built this into the basics, and you stand up to the microphone and tell us that the basic wages have increased. Congratulations, but no one gets a penny more, because in your witch's kitchen, along with statistical tricks, they serve foreign interests, multinational interests, they've made a deal with the banks, they've signed a EBRD pact with them, shame on you! Try... [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties, interrogations from the opposition side. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your Christmas signed this! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-02-17-90	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to try to hold back from personal insults in the heat of arguments. A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for the Minister. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I see that the alliance between Jobbik and the Democratic Coalition, in which you are all involved, is based on the relationship with the lie, which has become similar to the relationship that Ferenc Gyurcsány has always had with the lie, and since there is no substantive difference here, there is no basis for cooperation and collusion. What I can only say is that anyone who does not see the difference between the situation where 1.1 million real estate contracts are mortgaged, and therefore any HUF/EUR or HUF/Swiss change in the exchange rate is a significant burden for 3-4 million people, and between the time that we completely eliminate this, between the time when the exchange rate can say that there was a 10 per cent decrease or 10 per cent deterioration, but in the meantime there was an 85 per cent increase in salaries who could not distinguish between the two, it is a pity to speak out so passionately here in Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes, yes, yes! Applause in the same place.]]
u2020-02-17-92	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title: "Ongoing issues." Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás has appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond to his urgent task. I respectfully ask you, do you accept the Minister or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-02-17-93	I do not accept the identity of Minister.
u2020-02-17-94	Thank you very much. I'll inform you... [[It's grumpy.]] Please, it was a fair answer. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Congressman Tamás Bellozó knew he was next, so he stayed standing. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question, 'Are you deliberately breaking the law, or are you just completely incompetent?' It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr István Szilárd Németh has appointed a State Secretary for his reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Dr. Tamás Belling nods.]] Mr. Congressman, you're accepting the defendant's identity, so you have the floor. [[16.00]]
u2020-02-17-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the end of last year, for the first time, the Transparent Blog published the news that the newly acquired non-Hungarian aircraft, non-government machines, those Falcon new types of aircraft, including the two Airbus and private business jets, had been in Dubai, Abu-Dzabit, Las Vegas, Malta, Panama, the Canary Islands, Thessaloniki or the island of Paris for the past year. Many suspect that perhaps these non-governmental machines - which it is quite clear that they are, as Viktor Orbán regularly flies in public with these machines - may not be the most legitimate and properly operated. In this connection, I asked the minister with a written question, asking exactly where and when the planes were going, they were on military, government or private roads, and exactly how much the costs were paid and who paid for them. In his reply, the Minister said that these were not public data, but as a member of the Defence Committee and a C-type screening Member, I could look into these documents in the Ministry of Defence, looking for the Department of Parliamentary Relations. I did, I made this request in writing on 6 January, and then we talked on the phone several times, and then I gave the ministry tens of times, which is suitable for me, and on 22 January I received a completely absurd reply from the Ministry in writing that they would inform me that I have the right as a representative to make use of the legal request for information. This has been the last month and a half of the Ministry's activity. So I ask Mr Secretary of State whether they are deliberately refusing to show me these papers, or if they are unfit to make an appointment in a month and a half. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-02-17-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary István Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-17-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I couldn't give you a better answer than the Minister has already given you. I'll read it to you if you want, but it's at your disposal, and we respectfully expect you in the Ministry to exercise your right to represent you. If you don't come to the Ministry, it's gonna be hard for you to get information there. The Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Government have always made sure that the Hungarian Defence Office, or the Ministry of Defence itself, can have civil control, whether by the parliament as you mentioned, in the course of the committee's work, or on the basis of the right of information or information of the Members of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-17-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That's what we're talking about. It's outrageous, Mr. Secretary. With reference to the conversation with the colleague of the head of the department, X. Y., I give the following dates as a representative to finally receive and show the papers: 8 January, 10 January, 13 January, 14 January, 15 January Nothing, Mr. Secretary. We called there every day, every day to the Ministry, and in the end, his colleague denied that he was there. You are simply misusing my patience on the one hand and the laws on the other. Well, how do you imagine your minister writing in early January that I have to show you these papers and then just physically sabotage all of this? Well, they think everybody's stupid. Mr. Secretary, tell me now, what day can I go to see these papers? I'll be there. Here's a fair, straight answer. Thank you for listening.
u2020-02-17-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-101	Honourable Congressman, The department will notify you of that date. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Like before? Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] about the time at which you can agree. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-17-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you take responsibility, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response. I ask the honourable Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or whether he is asking the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2020-02-17-103	After Mr. Prime Minister refuses to take responsibility, I'd like to wait for him to get over the shocks in Dunaújváros and appear in person. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-02-17-104	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why not rationalise the resource for the creation of a nursery space? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. You have already indicated to me, Congresswoman, that you will accept the person who is responding. Congresswoman Anett has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It must be said that nursery care is not only intended to ensure the safety of children and day care, but also to ensure the rights and dignity of mothers in their ability to fit back dynamically into the wage labour market and to live a life that they dreamed of as a mother. According to Eurostat data, 88 thousand Hungarians are unable to return to the labour market today due to the lack of cradle seats, and 70,000 children are out of care. There is no day care at all in more than 2,600 settlements. This represents 80% of the settlements. We find complete walks where cradles can't work and there's nowhere to take children under three years of age. Hungary is therefore not doing well in this area. It is also clear from the trends that family and private cradles have contributed significantly to the increase in the number of seats, contributed more dynamically to the expansion of the seats than the public seats, and, for some reason, we do not see the intention of the government to support these forms of maintenance. I know from the budget debates that the amount of space needed cannot be realised because the supply side of the construction sector is insufficient. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State why, if that is the case, the funds originally intended for building development are not transferred so that they can better support crèches operated by private or other maintainers. Only HUF 58 330 per child is the amount that the Secretary of State has already indicated to me in his reply to a written question. This is far from insufficient to maintain. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-02-17-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-17-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, I congratulate you on your transfer, I would not say to the liberal faction, but from a single independent group to DK, what we can say to the Democratic Coalition, a liberal group of diplomat communists [[There's a riot in the ranks of DK and Jobbik.]] with a variety of names [[Rumors from DK and Jobbik. Gergely Harvester: But we will not take over you! A round of applause from DK's ranks and the pro-government benches.]] but what Gábor Fodor did not do, honourable Member [[A statement from Jobbik: The words of a criminal in Parliament!]] You did that, but sooner or later, everyone will turn into a support team for the Gyurcsány family on the opposition side. The liberals did the same thing, and today the better mans laid down his loyalties alongside Ferenc Gyurcsány, sooner or later they went there. But as for the nursery, honourable Member, we have increased it several times. [[Noise.]] in recent years, the budget for crèches, precisely because we believe that it is really necessary to give mothers and families the freedom of choice that they want to raise their children for three years at home, take care of them, or work from the age of six months, keeping family support, giving the child to a nursery, as opposed to what they did under the administration of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and then under the administration of Gordon Bajnai, when a month's wage was taken from all daycare workers in Hungary, honourable Member. When your allies ruled here in Parliament, there were 26,687 cradle seats, 26,687 last year, 48 702 and by mid-February this year there are 51 413 cradle seats. [[16.10]] We have also changed the legislation that even in settlements smaller than ten thousand inhabitants, if there are forty children under the age of 3 and at least five parents, a nursery should be opened. Therefore, in the period that you are crying back, honourable Member, it was a nursery in 320 settlements, by last year the number of settlements with crèches increased to 739 settlements. And besides, we've started a pay-raise program. As a result, wages have increased by 63 percent for higher education graduates and 44 percent for secondary education graduates in recent years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we would like to continue this wage development next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-17-108	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Congresswoman Anett Bősz has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid we don't understand each other. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I'm afraid so, too.]] Deaf dialogue has become the dialogue between the profession and the government on the nursery issue and the dialogue between parents and the government. It is important to see that every year there are thousands of children who are left out of nursery care, every year there is evidence that not only the inadequacy of the seats is a problem, but also that the territorial distribution of crèches is very bad. There are complete parts of the country that are almost entirely left out of nursery care. I am talking about the need to be able to operate this system in a stable way, and I am talking about the GDP growth that you are proud of, for example, in terms of this care or other social care systems, but you have not managed to resolve this at the moment. I can't accept it.
u2020-02-17-110	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is a unique fact that you can speak in a calm manner in the DK faction; we hope that you will influence your fellow factions, and not in your new community. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You said there should be more seats in Hungary. As I mentioned to you, in 320 settlements, the 739 is much more than the number of places now available for public services in crèches, and compared to the 26 600 seats, 51 thousand seats are also an extension. You know as well as I do, because you are aware of this issue, if not from anywhere else, from my answers that I have sent you that HUF 120 billion [[There's a riot in DK's benches. Gergely Arató: Modesty, Comrade Bastion!]] - if you have read it, you will know - what we use from EU funds, also from budgetary sources, to expand crèches. There were special applications last year as well. Many smaller and larger settlements have won such applications [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , precisely because everywhere where there are at least 40 children under the age of 3 and five parents so request, we would like to start this public service and use a hundred billion-dollar resource to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-17-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you take responsibility, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group, accept the person of the responding party, or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-02-17-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd definitely wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-02-17-114	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Group Leader, and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear House, Congressman Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why are wind energy banned?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I respectfully ask the Member to accept the person to whom he is responding.
u2020-02-17-115	I'd be happy to accept that, yes. [[Defiance.]]
u2020-02-17-116	Thank you very much. The congressman accepted the identity of the responder. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, A few years before the sudden future and totally uncredited green turn of Fidesz, our fellow Member L. Simon László said: "The reason why it cannot be based on solar and wind power plants is because electricity is needed at night, and even when the wind is not blowing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: That's true.]] This MTA-level doctoral dissertation [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Since then, the government has revised it, because the solar panel has already been included in your new green plan, yet wind power is still banned, which they cannot answer. Of course, the LMP fraction is aware that Hungary is located in the Carpathian Basin, and the Carpathian Basin is geographically limited to where wind energy can be used, but it is possible to develop wind energy capacity in West Transdanubia, especially in Kisaland. The fact is that despite the bedtime story that you are presenting in green politics, Hungary's greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 12% since 2013. It's a so-called fact that you can think of a lot of, but it's still true. This shows that without the revolution in the production of wind energy and electricity, Hungary will not be able to meet the climate targets set, even though they are already too low. I ask the Minister why the wind power plant has not been built since 2011. Why is it forbidden for anyone who invests private capital in Hungary to build a wind power plant while the MET group, which is not, in euphemistically speaking, the government's biggest enemy, has built wind power plants in Serbia in a company that has already received Hungarian tax-paying money? Why is it that you have banned this green energy, and why are you lying about how you now identify yourselves as the Green Party?
u2020-02-17-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the Minister the floor for the answer. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Fidesz is a Christian Democratic-Conservative middle-right party, and we don't want to change that. Another issue is that in the Hungarian public, not to argue that LMP also talked a lot about green topics, but still from the representatives of Fidesz Zoltán Illés [[Moore in the opposition benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Poor Illés Zoli!]] and it was the President-elect of the Republic who has discussed these issues in the broadest possible way, with the greatest outlook in recent years, as we consider important. There is no better proof of this than that Hungary is one of the few countries in the European Union that is likely to meet the 2030 climate commitments and targets, and we are well on time. Countries such as Sweden, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria cannot say the same thing about themselves. So, while we have managed to set common targets for 2050, we can say that the 2030 targets are large and industrial polluting countries seem to be unable to meet and we can deliver. In particular, let us add that this commitment is also due to the ability of Pakson to build a new reactor. Without this and without nuclear power, no one today can make a mix of energy from renewable energy or anything else that can otherwise meet climate targets. I therefore believe that from a green perspective, we can welcome the government's attitude towards these issues, and I can only say that the government has made its commitments, both in front of Hungarian voters, as described yesterday by the Prime Minister and what we have made in the course of the European Union agreements, these commitments will be fully respected. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-17-120	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-121	In this Green Party identity war, I would ask the Minister that his very important coalition partner in coalition governance, which, according to Peter Harrach's words, has newly become a Green Party, ask who considers himself to be what. But let's skip the public joke category. The fact that the wind power plant was not mentioned in its reply, as if I were asking, Minister, I remember... - so the fact is that they simply cannot provide any technical or other arguments as to why they would not allow someone to build a wind power plant from private capital in Hungary. I think that this is a green energy that can contribute to producing cheap green energy in Hungary because of energy revolution. The fact is that all countries in the region are ahead of us in terms of green energy. In terms of wind energy, Serbia and Romania are also ahead of us. The thing is, they're ten years late to figure out that this global disaster should be dealt with, and this wasted ten years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We can't forgive you. [[16.20]]
u2020-02-17-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from Secretary Gergely Gulyás. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, That's an interesting point, ten years wasted, because you don't really know how to name a program that we wouldn't have done in green cases if it made sense. While, by the way, the country was undoubtedly bankrupt when your allies governed, the programs, international commitments made by the previous government on these issues, we supported and continued to support it. As far as wind energy is concerned, we can say that it is a professional and non-political debate that we are talking about. With regard to renewable energy sources, Hungarian natural conditions in the field of solar energy are significantly better than in the case of wind energy. Not to mention that wind energy has landscape, aesthetic and noise protection effects. [[Péter Ungár: Aesthetic?]] The debates on this are also taking place in Hungary, so I think that if someone has heard the noise effects of a wind power plant, they do not want to live near it. They cannot be established in Natura 2000 areas. So we do not want to change the regulation that the government has developed for wind power. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-124	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó and Congressman Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I respectfully ask Congressman Bence Tordai to accept his response. [[Bence of Turda: Yes.]] He'll take it. Thank you very much. Bence Tordai will present the immediate question on behalf of the submitting representatives. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2020-02-17-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Over the last few weeks, the Orbán government has launched new attacks on education, teachers, parents and, above all, children. Your recent National Master's Plan doesn't prepare children for the future, it doesn't give you the means to live a successful and happy life, it's XX. It brings back the worst traditions of the century: instead of skills development, outdated knowledge, critical thinking and a culture of cooperation, its subjects are obedience and exclusional thinking. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where did you read this? Nacsa Lőrinc: You should have read it!]] This is what Hungarian children get [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where did you read it besides the People's Land?]] the policy of education of the State Party of Orbán. Your vicious campaign against children in Gyöngyöspata, which are isolated from quality education, does not provide a solution and reconciliation, but further stimulates the tension. You are not only incapable and incapable of providing high-quality education for all children, but you are not even trying. They think that their declining support will be reversed by Árpád Habony with a strong Gypsy campaign that will be used by the neo-Nazi supporters of Fidesz. I have some bad news for you: the Hungarian people are increasingly seeing through the crappy fidesz tricks. Yesterday, Dunaújváros sent a message: Viktor Orbán is delirious from the golden age, if his candidate receives only a third vote. We should try steering it, because inciting it doesn't work. But because of their petty party interests, the education system that determines the fate of children is being destroyed. Mr. Secretary. How do they take the courage to rob the future of Hungarian children? How dare they override a final judge's decision? Can a Gypsy man not be right in Hungary even if he has proved himself right? How dare they take the liberty of giving children compensation for damages! - to get a job? How did they get so low? !
u2020-02-17-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask for the answer, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is difficult to argue with someone about a national basic curriculum if they have either not read it or have not understood it or cannot draw the right conclusions from it, and we have not learned what the Member is basing his conclusions on. We've read similar findings in the press, but I think that the fundamental plan change we've adopted makes the National Basics better. I am also sure that there was a need for changes in identity-forming objects, and this was not the subject of a professional debate, such changes as have been made, and they will benefit the Hungarian education as a whole, together with the whole of the framework curriculum and textbooks. As far as Gyöngyöspata's case is concerned, I do not understand why Congressman is accusing us of something we have never done. Legal judgments must be adopted and enforced by everyone in Hungary. The Hungarian Government may not agree with a judgment, it considers it wrong, where appropriate, to make use of the review options that were opened at the Curia, but we will respect the final judgments. Another issue is that we believe that it is not possible to help the Roma in Hungary if, by the way, there has been segregation under the administration of your ally - I would just like to point out that this situation has existed since 2003 - for those who, by the way, have missed a significant number of hours, have not gone to school for days, and have established significant compensation. If there is such an obligation to compensate, it is best to increase the level of education, or to try, where appropriate, to actually repair the damage suffered with separate educational programmes, because you know precisely, at the most, you do not admit that the a few hundred thousand or a few million forints of compensation that some families have will not serve this purpose. There is already clear news that the peace of the settlement has been broken by this judgment. We therefore find this regrettable, but final judgments must be respected. In Dunaújváros, we achieved the same result as in the elections in 2018. I will be satisfied if we achieve the same result in 22 countries. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2020-02-17-128	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-129	Orbán said yesterday that the government committed itself to the rise of Gypsy families and made good progress, many of them working, children going to school. The fact that we have made good progress is very different from what the Roma parents and minority government leaders of Gyöngyöspata, who are sitting here with us right now, and the facts show very different things, which specifically contradict Viktor Orbán. I quote from the latest issue of the Labour Market Mirror: 81 percent and 74 percent of 17-year-old Gypsy boys and girls were full-time students in 2011 and only 58 percent in 2016. One reason for this is that they themselves have reduced the age limit for compulsory education to 16 years, and the other is that they maintain a segregation school system. This is your crime, just as it is your fault that a Hungarian child, born into a Gypsy family, has almost no chance, no matter how talented and hardworking he is, of getting a high education. Is that what you think social justice is?
u2020-02-17-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-02-17-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am thinking that if the Member had looked at the data on higher education and showed Roma participation in higher education before the condition of the question, he would not have said that the possibility of catching up had been blocked by our government. [[Tordai Bence: 1 percent!]] In addition to the Christian Roma College Network, which has been able to produce significant results, today twice as many Roma students are studying in higher education as they have learned during the governance of your allies. Twice as many people are studying in higher education today. So if we're going to talk about catching up, don't in any way pursue the bad practice that your allies did during their administration. What has happened in job creation, I think, is clear, perhaps even to you, that there are tens of thousands of gypsies who have not had a job before, and now they are working, and it is not true either, although public work must also be highly appreciated that they have found employment in public work, but also in the market after public work. This is a joint success for the country, and you shouldn't ruin it either. If they came to government, they would obviously do that, and we can only hear unfounded criticisms from the opposition. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-132	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Congressman János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What concrete measures does the government take to achieve climate protection objectives? It's an address. Because of his absence, Minister Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept the person of the responding, or wait for the Minister to be present. [[János Bencsik: I accept.]] Congressman, you say you'll accept the person you're responding to. Mr János Bencsik has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-133	Dear Secretary of State, The protection of our living environment and the created world is in the interest and responsibility of all of us. We all want clean water, quality food, good air and a more bearable climate. How our common future is going to be determined by today's decisions. Climate change is a natural process, but its speed is significantly influenced by the lifestyle of human communities. The process has accelerated and needs to be adapted. We therefore need real actions, not empty words. [[16.30]] Hungary has already demonstrated its commitment in recent decades, as it is one of the 21 countries in the world where economic performance has increased over the last thirty years by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by one third and energy consumption by one sixth. The national strategy for energy and climate protection adopted by the government provides the basis for Hungary's long-term and comprehensive, clean development strategy. It is only possible that the government also represents the interests of the Hungarian people. Each country should play its part in the joint efforts taking into account the extent of the damage it causes. The price of climate change should not be paid by the Hungarian people, but by the largest polluting companies and countries. After all, I would like to draw attention to the need to support all areas that protect our environment, the use of environmentally friendly energy, the preservation of our nuclear power capacities, the development of Community transport and the conservation of our natural resources. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you what concrete measures the Hungarian Government is taking to achieve the climate protection objectives. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-17-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The priority of Hungary is to protect the environment and adapt to climate change. Protecting the created world is our human duty on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are all responsible for the future of our children. The climate protection action plan announced by the Prime Minister shows the government's determination to protect the created world. First of all, this year, we will begin to eliminate illegal landfills and we will severely punish those who are harmful to the environment. We will eliminate the sale of disposable plastics and allow the redemption of glass and plastic bottles as well as metal boxes. We protect our national treasures, our rivers, from waste from abroad. Multinational companies operating in our country are obliged to use environmentally friendly technologies, and in the next two years we encourage the renewable energy production of Hungarian SMEs by HUF 32 billion. When every child is born, we plant ten trees. This means that by 2030, 27 percent of Hungary's territory will be covered with forest. We are increasing the capacity of solar power plants by six times, which provides environmentally friendly and cheap energy for domestic consumers. We will continue to expand the support for electromobility, and with the support of the purchase of cheap electric cars, we want to ensure a wider range of environmentally friendly transport. We have also set similar goals by placing electric buses on the market. We will introduce the green government bond and the amount of money from it will be spent by the government on climate-friendly programmes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman János Becsik. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-137	Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Accurate and correct accounting is subject to a traceability system, i.e. the establishment of a monitoring system. The national adaptation spatial information system, built by the government with the support of the Norwegian Fund and the financial assistance of the European Union since 2012, is an excellent opportunity for this, and is now widely used both in economic life and in scientific research and among local authorities. I would also recommend registration to my fellow Members for the national adaptation spatial information system. It is quite certain that their vocabulary on climate change would be expanded in addition to the climate crisis with people like exposure, sensitivity, vulnerability, adaptability, and the methodology on which many of our local governments have already developed a local climate strategy and action plan in this European Union cycle. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interview from the Jobbik faction: You finally read it!]]
u2020-02-17-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to ask my fellow Members to be a little more modest. Congressman, a little more restraint.
u2020-02-17-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, this is an important system, because climate change cannot be dealt with in empty words, but only by actions. Hungary has already done a lot in the fight against climate change and we are consistently progressing towards the goals that we have set ourselves. By 2030, 90% of Hungary's electricity generation will be carbon neutral, and our further goal is to ensure that the European economy and thus the Hungarian economy will be carbon-free by 2050. With regard to climate-neutral energy production, Hungary today - we can be proud of that - is performing better than most countries in the European Union, as we are one of those countries where gross domestic product has increased while reducing CO2 emissions and energy consumption. Our goal is to leave a country for future generations that is in a better state for the environment than it is now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás has appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or wait for the Prime Minister's personal reply.
u2020-02-17-141	Mr President, I accept that, although I would have preferred Mr Retvári, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Gergely Gulyás: Then why didn't you ask him your question?]] I've accepted it, Minister.
u2020-02-17-142	That's right, he accepted it, and he shouldn't have said anything. Thank you very much. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the session, it is appropriate to issue the education policy certificate for the last six months, since it is one of the most fundamental areas of national strategy for the Hungarian future. CHAPTER XXI Human knowledge and this knowledge will be the most important competitiveness factor of the century. Let's see how the government understood the words of time, so let's see the alternative certificate that we here from the Jobbik fraction were able to issue for you. Well, you failed the subject of teaching as an intellectual profession. Among many other things, I would like to point out, say, that you have taken away the status of civil servant from professional high school teachers who, if necessary, are humiliated and spit on every day by children from certain settled families. Then you have also performed inadequately from the subject "Execution of Selection" because you will build private schools with billion-dollar public support for the elite, where you will charge 3-4 million forints of tuition from the elite's children, while the common people will have broken-down public schools, which will be good for their students somewhere next to the conveyor belts, or to serve one of the oligarch's luxury yachts. Unfortunately, the subject that we do not consider the children as experimental rabbits also failed. Yes, you do. You see it that way. Anomalyes around the age of schooling, problems with NAT, and constant changes in failed vocational training reforms are evidence of this. Then, in the normal country, teachers are not kept from a subject called maid's wages, and there is a great deal of stake in their mid-term check-ups. Explain the certificate, Minister, if you can. It's gonna be hard. And I look forward to your response free of meadows. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-144	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Minister, I have a quick announcement to make. Dear House, I declare that the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee will take place today at 4:45 p.m. in the Parliament's Dénes Pázmándy Hall. This, who doesn't know yet, is the top floor, room 11. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. Mr. Secretary, please. [[16.40]]
u2020-02-17-145	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Lords of the President, Honourable Congressman, If I understood the beginning of the speech correctly, then you began by saying that you were sorry that you did not receive an answer from the Secretary of State of Rétvári, and that you concluded that I should not give you an answer like Secretary of State Retvári. He gave me a relatively narrow framework to answer. [[Defiance.]] I don't know if I can live with that. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] However, I thought I could hear the old Jobbik from a sentence; be very careful with this in his faction, because he could find himself a line back in no time. [[Defiance.]] I'm trying to keep those sentences quiet. Maybe you're lucky the party leader wasn't in. If your fellow factions do, and you don't tell him, then I promise you, I won't either. As far as factual questions are concerned, I could say that I have already answered because no questions have been asked. You have long accused us of various claims that I see as completely unfounded. So, on the one hand, he brought up the issue of vocational training, where he did not mention that a 30-percent salary increase was being made and then he talked about servants' wages. Of course, I agree that we are far from in education where wages should be kept, and we should continue to increase wages. Therefore, even this year, it is still necessary to have a teacher's wage increase, and I am sure there will be, but this does not change the fact that if you look at the rate of teacher's wage increases, we can say here, as in countless other areas, that in the period since 2010 there have been significantly greater teacher's wage increases than ever in the previous two decades. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai will take his place in the notary seat.]] So if the point of reference is the Western European teacher's wage or even our own desires, then I understand that we have missed this, but if the point of reference is the extent to which their DK ally, such as Ferenc Gyurcsány, has already increased during the administration of the teacher's wages, then we are very well off compared to that. On the subject of the National Basics, you changed direction of the new Jobbik, and I heard criticisms similar to the previous liberal side. I think, and I suggest that you read the changes to identity-forming objects, see if you still like it a little bit by your old self. But even if you don't, I can tell you that this might be a much more modern version compared to that. I think it will serve the education and learning of children well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-146	Thank you very much, Minister. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-147	The benchmark is then, let's say, not Western Europe, but the Klebelsberg model you so much like to refer to. In 1941, a high school teacher, at the time when a man easily joked with 200 pengo fixes, took 246 pengoes home. He's a junior high school teacher. Minister, where are we from here? ! Then we can see where the so-called screening fund is now. So it's a screening, really. It's just this screening that you're doing, it's very different from the screening fund that teachers would like to see. It is still frozen at 2014 level, so HUF 101 500 is the minimum wage at that time. This should be made Cardinally, to a significant extent, because there are a lot of derelicts, the teaching profession itself is constantly ageing, and there will be no reinforcements in the context of such circumstances, which you have created in the world of public education for the tenth year. So I cannot accept your answer, Minister. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You don't have to! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-02-17-149	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, As I understand it, you're asking us to raise the teacher's wages. We can do that. There will be an increase in teachers' wages in this cycle even more than once. And I think it is in all our interests that the quality of education should be higher in Hungary as well, so we can all welcome the latest PISA survey, which was the first to truly assess the educational activity of this government and which shows better data than before. Besides, in all areas, in all segments, let us add that the former data was also damaged by the fact that the differences were enormous. So if we look at the performance of a county-righted city or a capital high school, we are competitive with any Western European country, but similar schools in small settlements are well behind. Therefore, I think it was inevitable and right that the schools had become state-owned. This has contributed to reducing this difference, to raising the quality of lower schools, the first results of which can be seen in the PISA evaluation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-150	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing the national assets, how much has the state's wealth increased since 2010? It's an address. Madam Secretary János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to your absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, state wealth has increased significantly during national governance. On the other hand, between 1994-98 and 2002-2010, socialist-liberal governments carried out robbery-privatization, sold out, distributed and squandered a significant portion of the state's assets, thus the Hungarian people. The state's wealth became largely private under the Gyurcsánys. More than two thirds of the nation's strategically-preserved companies have played private hands, the energy sector, large public companies, banks, utility companies, public properties and land. They privatized 190 companies from state assets, sold Budapest Airport, Postabank, Mol shares, Antenna Hungária, MÁV Cargo. The Hungarian airline Malév was played by the Gyurcsány government in 2007 for a fraction of his villa's price for HUF 200 million for a Russian businessman. By squandering the state's wealth worth HUF 10 000 billion, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his policy friends became rich, and the Hungarian people received restrictions, brutally, the highest fees, the highest taxes, foreign exchange loans, unemployment and eyeballs at European level. Meanwhile, the budget deficit was 9.2 percent in 2006 as the peak of robbery privatisation, which was the second worst indicator in the world at the time. Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the opposition, sold out the country, distributed the common assets of the Hungarian people. On the other hand, the national government has significantly increased state wealth since 2010. I therefore ask, with respect, Mr Secretary, how much the state's wealth has increased since 2010. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-17-153	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, After the history you presented, state wealth increased by 52 percent from 2010 to today, i.e. by HUF 6000 billion, from 11 650 billion in 2010 to HUF 17 743 billion this year. Behind the growth of state wealth, the companies providing public services, the strategic companies that served the fundamental functioning of Hungarian society, the everyday life of Hungarian people, were held in private hands, in a significant number of countries. I'm thinking electricity, gas, other basic services. In the last ten years, 62 percent of the state's assets have been built up, 21 percent of the company's shares and the rest are other assets, such as movable property. A significant proportion of the state assets bought back, as I mentioned, so basic public services... - second, they aim and aim at the enrichment of the state, society and the country. I must highlight the acquisitions in the energy sector. We have also created national public utilities operating the electricity, gas and district heating sectors of the national utility service through targeted company purchases. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Thank you very much. I'll be back in the next minute. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc in return. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. I think that all Members of Parliament in this Parliament would be pleased to hear that national wealth has increased by one and a half times over the last ten years. Unfortunately, we do not experience this joy on the left, I believe they have always been in favour of the fact that the state is a bad farmer, they have made the state's national wealth private. [[16.50]] I am glad that in 2010 the robbery privatization ended, and now it's not the SZDSZ moonyard and Ferenc Gyurcsány and his friends are getting rich on state money. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] but it enriches Hungarian society, the Hungarian national wealth increases with real estate, lands, and shares in society. I am very pleased that in strategic sectors Hungarian national property has been once again increased. And we see that from Ferenc Gyurcsány's declaration of assets hundreds of millions and billions are still flying in and out. Obviously, we expected answers from Ferenc Gyurcsány here too, which he has not yet clarified where one billion HUF has disappeared from his declaration of assets. However, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for the consistent efforts of the Government to increase national wealth. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-17-157	Dear House, Please say a few words, in addition to energy suppliers, about other strategic sectors. We have bought back Mol shares, Antenna Hungária; from 2013 we have secured a reduction in the rent, which will continue to require a conscious, targeted and public asset management for the purposes of society as a whole. The change in state wealth management is not more proof that we are not only buying, but that we are selling assets that are not necessary for the basic objectives mentioned above. For the transparent, transparent implementation of this, we established the electronic auction system in 2015, with a total revenue of approximately HUF 60 billion in transparency, transparency and guaranteeing the widest customer base. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-158	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 4:51 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We will now continue our work with questions. [[A statement from the opposition: Is the time running out?]] Dear fellow Member, The time frame expired at 4:49 p.m. Unfortunately, I have to tell you this by the house. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Screaming for a mouth lock, but exiting when... Lőrinc Nacsa: You shouldn't have gone out!]] Dear Parliament, So now we're going to talk about questions. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why did the Government lie about closing the Dobian psychiatric process? It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2020-02-17-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, At the end of last year, I was approached about the closure of the Dobian psychiatric facility and the further fate of patients treated there. For the sake of clarity, I have turned to the Minister of Human Resources in writing and to you, which I have received the answer: there is no closure of the institution, there is political hysteria. Mr. Secretary of State's reply caused such outrage to the people concerned that the letters written by anxious relatives, workers and residents of Sümeg were pouring out. Since I can no longer believe the government based on my years of bad experience, I paid a personal visit to that wonderful mansion in Dobai where 200 psychiatric patients have been treated so far. I was shocked to find that, contrary to the answer received from the Secretary of State, some of the castle has already been evacuated, and other patients are being transferred to nearby hospitals, such as Sümeg, homeless shelters, such as Tapolca. According to family members, they were presented with ready facts to resolve the placement of their family members in a home or social home requiring medication and constant supervision. Unfortunately, in addition to work and because of the endless waiting lists of institutions, none of these options can be met. That is why I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State: what will happen to patients? How will patients be separated from the outpatient care facility and the pediatric clinic? Since there is a huge shortage of professionals in the social sphere and health care, how do they resolve the care of patients? Last but not least, who needs the castle? And a very important question: what will happen to the homeless hostel, to the Tapolca, or to the caretakers at the end of April, when the crisis period expires, and there is no Tapolca involvement of these patients, the caregivers? I look forward to your respectable, honest, professional, but unpolitical response. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-160	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-17-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Dobai site operates about 200 beds in the psychiatric rehabilitation profession. The hospital's chronic psychiatric and internal medicine department is located on Sümeg, as well as the county's active psychiatric department operates only in Sümeg. Over the last 20 years, the treatment options for mental disorders and the effectiveness of treatment options have changed significantly, resulting in an increasing number of patients being treated outside hospital walls. The model of carers in Veszprém has decades of tradition, the so-called Community psychiatric care, which also corresponds to the modern European direction. It is essential to continue treatment as much as possible in the patient's home, surroundings, family and social community. Rethinking and modernising psychiatric inpatient capacities is a long-standing professional need. This will also be supported by the various sources of tender that allow further development of psychiatric outpatient care. By means of a previous application entitled "Improving the quality and access of specialist care services in the framework of the structured development of the. a care system," the development of the psychiatric department could also be carried out in this priority project. I can assure you that the patient will not remain unsatisfactioned, as has been the case, so that all patients will continue to have access to the healthcare they need. In his question, he also mentioned the renovation of the previous 400 million, around the castle. As part of this, we were able to use HUF 400 million for the reconstruction of the water system and garden of the park around the castle. At the first stage to restore the water system and the structure of the park; in this the castle park was renewed, so the English garden could be renewed by autumn 2015. The amount spent on the rehabilitation of the building's nearly a hundred-hectare park was also recovered by the Ministry of National Development, as well as the Bakonyford, on the one hand, with cash and wood. [[György Szilágyi: Who wants the castle?]] So, honourable Member, the care of all those who are provided will continue to be provided. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Who wants the castle?]]
u2020-02-17-162	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Gurmai and Attila Mesterházy, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights: Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2020-02-17-163	Thank you very much. Dear Commissioner, Though I didn't think that was the order. The right to health care in Hungary today is protected by fundamental rights on a number of sides, on the one hand because it serves to achieve physical and psychological health, and on the other hand because through the payment of contributions, the patient obtains the right to health care guaranteed by constitutional property protection. I think I should therefore draw your attention to the circumstances in the psychiatric department of Ferenc Csolnoky Hospital in Veszprém County. This class is located in the city of Doba in a castle consisting of two buildings. The roof structure of one of the buildings of the castle collapsed and collapsed, so the building had to be completely evacuated, and in many cases the patients could not be accommodated in the remaining building. Neither did those who remained, since it is not possible to separate patients of different severity from each other, so patients with the most serious mental impairment and those with milder diseases are in the same airspace. In this case, I asked the EMMI a number of questions, in which they denied that they were planning to evacuate the hospital in Dobai. However, after my first question, a person working at the hospital wrote me an anonymous letter describing in detail the closure of the hospital's psychiatric department. It provides detailed information on the timetable, deadlines and methods they intend to implement this, as well as the fact that the Dobian psychiatry is to be closed in its entirety, and the 200-bed facility is already providing only a hundred beds. While the EMMI told me that they did not want to close the class, my fellow Member, Mr Rig, had already been appointed Mr. They apologize for the situation in Dobán, citing health processes in the last century. That is why I would like to ask Commissioner whether he is planning an investigation into the case of the Dobian psychiatrist, or whether he is currently under investigation. If not, why not? If not, are you of the opinion that the right to care for people with serious psychiatric problems can be relativised? Do you think that at a homeless shelter, psychiatric patients will get the care they need? I ask the Commissioner to conduct an urgent investigation into this matter. Please take action to resolve the ill-fated conditions. Thank you very much. [[17.00]]
u2020-02-17-164	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Officer!
u2020-02-17-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to thank you for your appreciation for your interest and your question. Allow me first of all to point out that, in the course of the ombudsman's rights protection work, I am also trying to preserve the professional authority, independence and, of course, the possibility of an objective assessment of all situations, and therefore, in the absence of credible information on the exact circumstances, or of an ombudsman's inquiry, I cannot issue a preliminary legal statement in this case. According to the Fundamental Law, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights carries out fundamental rights protection activities in order to investigate or investigate maladministration in relation to fundamental rights and to initiate general or specific measures to remedy them. The Commissioner Act also explicitly emphasises the obligation to pay particular attention to protecting the rights of the most vulnerable social groups. Dear Parliament, There is currently no investigation into the institution of the psychiatric, rehabilitation and socio-therapeutic department of Ferenc Csolnoky Hospital, Veszprém county, as a medical institution, in our office, given that neither the patients nor the employees have received any complaints about the placement or the closure of the institution. [[Lajos Rig: 'Cause they don't dare, Officer! They won't dare! The president's ringing the bell.]] However, as Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, I consider it my priority to keep myself informed on matters where there is no investigation, but there may be suspicion of a breach of fundamental rights. In this particular case, which was mentioned by the Member, my colleagues have already begun to inform me on my instructions, and after evaluating the information that I have learned, I can decide on the need for an investigation to be initiated. In the meantime, however, ladies and gentlemen, who have tabled this request, I must ask you kindly for patience. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-166	I thank the Commissioner for his reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why doesn't the government do anything to reduce the charges for mobile parking? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-17-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, almost everyone has a mobile phone, and whether in terms of motorists or in terms of the state or the municipality, I think it would be beneficial for everyone to pay as many people as possible with mobile phones, reduce cash traffic, fewer parking machines are needed. State-owned National Mobile Payment Corporation. However, out of each paid 100 HUF 10 HUF will be returned home, taken and spent, and in addition, after every mobile parking started, 50 HUF of the convenience fee will be transferred to the National Mobile Payment Ltd. In addition, we see that different market mobile operators charge different fees for a service that is fully controlled by the State: 1-2.5 times the multiplier compared to which mobile operator has a telephone card. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, such a bill has been tabled, which has been voted down today by the Economic Committee, I hope only by accident, because you have not been consulted, and the Government could support staying more money than the municipalities and reducing this 10%. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: How come you just remembered?]] There was 2.5 percent in the bill, but I think it is possible to be flexible in this, the aim is to keep as much money as possible in the municipalities. I don't think there's any reason why the convenience fee should be given to the National Mobile Payment Corporation. I think that we could bring the HUF 50 down to zero, and that market mobile operators need some kind of standardization, the bill contained HUF 30. My question, Mr. Secretary of State, is that the government can support the fact that the National Mobile Payment Corporation. instead of leaving the money with the municipalities. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-168	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-17-169	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The operation of the national mobile payment system used in mobile parking is successful, this is indisputable, and this is shown by the fact that you have ignored it. Since its launch in 2014, negative and unfounded expectations of opposition parties have not been confirmed, the number of electronic transactions in the system has increased spectacularly, and it can be stated that one of the most modern and innovative public service mobile payment systems in Hungary has actually been established. The national mobile payment system provides the operators with a uniform connection and service provision framework, with the result that 27 resellers have now joined the system, including Hungarian SMEs, Hungarian start-ups, and, as a result, Internet-based mobile phone applications are becoming increasingly popular with the previously dominant text and call-based payment. By using these, citizens have been able to use this service in recent years with a much lower convenience fee and no additional communication costs than text-based parking for mobile operators. Part of the operating model of the national mobile payment system is a fee from end-users, called a convenience fee. A large number of resellers connected to the system compete for customers, so the State does not currently prohibit or restrict the fact that, in addition to the amount of the transaction fee fixed by law, the relevant reseller requires its customers to charge a higher transaction fee. However, the government is still working to adapt and continuously develop this national system to the needs of our time, and plans also include a transformation of the tariff structure. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which serves the interests of consumers and mobile payment market players in an even more favourable way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-170	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. The investment of the Buda Castle District will only benefit the elite? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The protection and renovation of the Buda Castle's buildings is a priority task and duty for us too. However, it is important that not only the tourist flood, but also the protection and satisfaction of the people living in the castle district, are served by all these renovations. Gergely Fodor, Government Commissioner responsible for certain tasks related to government investments in the Buda Castle District, said earlier that the fate of the Buda Palace and the town of citizens are inseparable from each other and regularly researching the needs of local residents. According to State Secretary Orbán, research has been carried out for this purpose, including the Castle-25 research, whose impact assessment you believe will respond to the impact of the development of the Castle Quarter on the daily lives of citizens and the transport of the Castle Quarter. As the parliamentary representative of the district, I would like to ask you with due respect where this impact assessment can be obtained, the result of this impact assessment, when the stakeholders will be able to know, that is, the citizens of the city, the people in the castle district. What can the people of the castle district expect? Have you considered increasing traffic in terms of air quality? Have you considered increasing traffic in terms of public purity? Are you planning to expand green areas? Minister, how are you planning to ensure that the tourist visitation of the Buda Castle District is increased, but there is no way for the party district to develop, for everyday life to be difficult between visitors and those living there? Mr. Secretary. Will the Buda Castle District be a privileged area of the elite or a national treasure of cultural and historical importance to all Hungarians? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-17-173	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm trying to keep the two-minute window. I think we have an interest in the fact that the needs and expectations of citizens living in the Castle are our priorities. We are thinking about improvements and solutions that reduce the car load properly. Not only are we talking about this, but, let's say, if you're thinking of de-caring St. George's Square, then I can tell you that we still have such and similar traffic relief plans. [[17.10]] By the way, the people of the Castle rightly raise the lack of parks and gardens, the neglected state of existing green areas and promenades. The national Hausmann programme also includes such measures, the castle gardens, castle walls, parks, gardens, promenades are renewed. The first results of these are already visible. It is also in the interest of the locals living in the Castle, i.e. the Hungarians, that we set up a running circle, playground in the Palace district; we place more bathrooms, diapers, trash cans and benches. Of course, this is in addition to the constant renewal of our built heritage: the Main Guard, the Stöckl staircase, the horseyard, the accessibility of the Csikós yard, the reconstruction of the southern connecting wing. These are all projects that are ongoing at the moment. In order to avoid mass tourism in Barcelona and Venice, we try to direct visitors, so we set them within an organized framework and reduce the traffic of tourist buses. I think that also shows that there is no difference of opinion between us in this regard. The Hausmann Plan has been available since 2014. The Hausmann programme already serves to implement this plan. The consultation with the people living in the Castle and professional organisations is ongoing. The impact study of the Vár-25 research, mentioned by you, can be consulted by you at any time by the Várkapitány Nonprofit Zrt. I guess you didn't expect me to do it these two minutes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'll read it to you. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-02-17-174	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, Why not raise the wages of teachers? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2020-02-17-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Today, a beginner educator may consider himself lucky if he can bring home a net of HUF 150,000 per month and pay for the fast-expensive housing, rent, food costs, pay off his student loans, save for his first home purchase, and then we haven't even talked about the cost of raising children. But if you go to a multi-county cashier, you'll get one and a half to two times this money. It is therefore difficult to justify why anyone would choose the pedagogical career, unless it is out of a professional sense, but it is abuse that is the only thing to rely on. No wonder there is a serious shortage of teachers in Hungary today. In the last five years, the basic wage has not increased, and the eyes of those who have been on the field for several tens of thousands of HUF have also been spotted. They took the supplemental allowances, then returned the same, lying to me as a raise. It's not a wage increase, it's a forgery of statistics that the government has been leading in recent years. At the end of the month, however, educators are interested in how much more - if more - they can take home, not how the government juggles with numbers. Mr. Secretary. Answer the following questions - or Secretary of State, if only you are here. Is it planned by the government that the wage projection base will finally be adjusted to the minimum wage again after 2014, as promised at the time, so that teachers' salaries will increase by HUF 66-166,000 net? Are you planning to re-establish replacements for extra work, administrative tasks and the like? Are you planning to review the entire career model, especially with regard to wage increases? I look forward to your detailed, thorough and honest response.
u2020-02-17-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-17-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know, it's weird to hear these words, sentences, demands from a politician who is political in a political alliance that has only once reduced the wages of teachers in Hungary's post-convertement history, because the political community that we can call many names, but of which you are a warrior, the only one that has reduced the annual earnings of teachers. It was smaller one year than it was the year before, and, moreover, even 15,000 teachers were dismissed overnight or from one school year to another, honourable Member. And then you're short on spending over the last few years, if you compare the beginning of our government and this year, HUF 390 billion more a year on teaching wages than the budget adopted for 2010. Only this year we spend 390 billion more on this, quite rightly. This includes a 50 per cent general teacher wage increase, including wage increases due to different ratings. This year, too, because of the qualifications - educator from I. to teacher II. Category 2 - About 17,000 teachers have an increase in salaries of approximately HUF 30-35 thousand, but there are 10,000 teachers who receive a higher salary of HUF 70,000 in a master's degree. This 390 billion already includes the 30 percent increase in vocational education and training this year, and it also covers the salary increase of the school principal that you did not support here as a Member of the Parliament. Now he stands up and says he needs higher teacher wages. But a few months ago, when, with your vote, let's say, the school principal could have supported wage increases, he did not, honourable Member. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] So we use these to improve the teacher's wages. You may have seen the admission numbers, too, that there are already about 30 percent more teachers in higher education than in 2010. So the incentive effect was successful. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] or increase the attractiveness of the field in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-178	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Why does the Hungarian Village Program continue? with a title... How does the Hungarian Village Program continue? It's an address. [[Defiance. Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: It doesn't matter! Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: It will also be revealed...]] Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2020-02-17-179	Dear Secretary of State, The Government of Hungary has provided significant assistance and partnership in several steps towards the municipalities. First, he took over the debt inherited from the socialist period and provided development aid to those who did not have it. In the case of cities with county rights, it is an open way to achieve decades of dreams within the framework of the Modern Cities programme. At the same time, implementation of the plan to connect county seats to the network of motorways, which means an outbreak not only for them, but for the whole region. We've got proof of that by the construction of 86. It was also an important step to start the program of the Hungarian village, which aims at small settlements of less than 5 thousand people. Several initiatives can also be implemented in my constituency, North Vas County. Service apartments, medical clinics, roads, sidewalks, kindergartens, kindergartens, mayor's offices, local community squares can be renewed, cemeteries can be made worthy of government subsidies. It is also possible to purchase medical equipment, village buses and machinery that keeps the public area in order. It can be seen that the individual sub-programmes are linked to each other, thus helping to improve the quality of life of people living in small towns. The interest is huge, the experience is good, I've had the pleasure of participating in several handovers. The improvements that have been made are all for the particular village. Dear Secretary of State, My constituency has 77 settlements, of which all but three cities have less than 5,000 inhabitants. Our goal is to preserve these wonderful places, as we have received as an inheritance from those before us, so that we can pass them on to new generations. In order to continue building the northern Vas county, we therefore trust the continuation of the Hungarian village programme, as we still have a lot of ideas to implement. In view of the above, I respectfully ask how the Hungarian village programme will continue this year. Thank you, I am honored to hear your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-17-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to state that the government's primary objective is to increase the capacity of the Hungarian villages to maintain their population, and one of the flagship projects of this project is the "Hungarian Village" programme. Accordingly, this programme will continue and expand in 2020, including village CSOK, tendering opportunities and the development of the side road network. The round of applications will cover three main pillars in 2020: service development, infrastructure and asset development, as well as the strengthening of identity awareness. The form of grants is always non-refundable, 100% domestic aid, in the form of a 100% advance. For these sub-programmes, a budget of HUF 40 billion is already available. The circle of beneficiaries is also expanding, as local NGOs can also appear in addition to local governments and church organisations. In the framework of the Village Road Fund, there will be another HUF 50 billion for road renovations in 2020, which is planned to affect 174 sections of road in all 19 counties, with a length of 367.7 kilometres. [[17.20]] In the case of applications, of course, the above mentioned developments do not avoid Vas county: more than 200 successful applications have been submitted and some three billion HUF will serve the development of the region. We can calculate more than a hundred successful applications for your constituency, worth more than one billion forints. Thanks to the successful tender activity, we have been able to provide, among other things, HUF 300 million to strengthen national and local identity in Vas county, HUF 250 million to support village and folklore services, nearly HUF 200 million to medical clinics, and HUF 225 million for kindergarten development, and we hope that the program will be at least as powerful this year and in the coming years. Thank you very much for your patience and your word, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-182	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "How long will 80,000 South Somogy citizens' right to health-life be ignored? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2020-02-17-183	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. According to Eurostat data, Hungary also has mournful indicators for cancer deaths. Our country is the host of the EU: one in four countrymen lose their lives because of the dreaded disease, some 34,000 people every year; this is more than the total population of Szekszárd or Gyula. In an area with extremely bad population and mortality data, such as the southern part of Somogy County, early detection and diagnosis would be very important, in a way, to save lives, to gain valuable years for many families who fear their loved ones. In the hospital in Nagyatád, which was inaugurated in 1976, it would also be possible to do so, since it has been a year since the CT class was handed over, but for some irrational and inhumane reason, the outpatient funding of the CT in Nagyatád is still not guaranteed, and its benefits can only be enjoyed by the hospital's inpatients or those deeply in their pockets. The rest of you will have to travel to Kaposvár and the waiting list there. Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you, waiting list, and anyone who buys time can gain life. Nonsense that the CT capacity in Nagyatád is shockingly unexploited, despite the fact that the independent mayor of the city begs, I suggest that the budget amendments be made, or I ask for the untenable situation to be resolved myself. Mr State Secretary, I would like you to testify in your specific and, as soon as possible, reply that this serious problem is finally resolved. How long will 80,000 South Somogy citizens' right to life and health be ignored? How long will Nagyatad and his neighborhood be punished? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP, DK and LMP.]]
u2020-02-17-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-17-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The hospital in Nagyatád received a 16-slice CT scanner worth 95 million forints, precisely to allow patients in that hospital to have a diagnosis as quickly as possible. This is not the only hospital where this is happening, since 91 hospitals have been renewed in whole or in part throughout the country since 2010, 54 clinics and 107 rescue stations are more modern, and a completely new 23 clinics and 34 new rescue stations have been created. So far, the CT scan of hundreds of patients in Nagyatád hospital has been conducted. [[Ander Balázs: Infirmary.]] As you have mentioned, honourable Member, you have been able to carry out these tests primarily on the inpatients and even on the inpatients. So I think it's important in Nagyatád's life that those who have been admitted to the hospital can now use the CT scanner there to determine their position more accurately. How more additional resources could be available to help patients not only in the infirmary but also outpatients, was suggested that the hospital has certain abandoned capacities, there are unused TVKs in the order of up to ten million or ten million, and this source may be a transfer to the hospital to allow the outpatient to use this CT. However, I think it is very important that this equipment can be found there now, and it is important that it has been able to help diagnose hundreds of patients in the last narrow one year, and I think we can all be happy that it has been able to help these people in their lives, and I think you should be very proud that you have a CT scan on Nagyatad and for now inpatient care, but we are confident that you can help outpatient care in the future. [[Balázs Ander: But when, Mr. Secretary? When?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-186	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When does the government finally estimate the essential work of civil servants? It's an address. In answering this question, Prime Minister László Palkovics, who is responsible for innovation and technology, has been appointed by the Minister. At the request of Minister János Schanda will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-187	Thank you very much for the floor. A self-controversial is the policy of Fidesz, the constant talk of good economic results, yet the people who work for the state, and in particular civil servants, receive humiliating wages. The fact is that there are 139 changes in the civil servant pay table in 2020, but every change in this 139 change is an 8-8 percent change in the gross amount of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. The fact is that, if you look at it without allowances, thousands of civil servants will receive the minimum wage in 2020, and most civil servants will not receive more than the guaranteed minimum wage. In addition, you do not allow civil servants to strike, because with the court, such a new chapter in a book called A trial in Kafka has to be written by not telling me what is sufficient service and going further: a significant part of civil servants, such as social workers, is not allowed to conclude collective agreements. The fact is that these people are the ones that make the state work at all, who operate the large public supply system, and the work of these people is not properly appreciated. Up to the age of 55, the vast majority of civil servants can only expect a guaranteed minimum wage, and there is a very, very small difference between starting as a public servant with a graduation and doing this with 20 years of professional experience and professional qualifications. The fact that the guaranteed minimum wage covers a significant part of the pay table means that the government does not appreciate the fact that someone has worked for the State for 20-30 years; it does not value the government's ability to hold professional qualifications in order to better perform its public service work. This humiliates these people, and in the 10th year of the Orbán government, do not refer to what happened in 2009, when I graduated. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-02-17-188	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-02-17-189	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has already taken significant steps to increase the financial value of public service workers in a number of sectors, such as health professionals, police and defence workers, and has established career paths and sectoral wage measures. The government will also take its actions in a responsible manner, within the framework of economic performance and budgetary equilibrium. We are well aware of the consequences of not making these decisions. These cover an ever wider public sector area, bearing in mind responsible farming. In terms of wage developments, however, the government has broken off with the previous practice that the salaries of civil servants should be treated in a uniform and identical way, so that the new status of vocational training workers, for example, allows them to receive a 30% wage increase by the government, which you unfortunately did not vote for. Honourable Congressman, In line with the new approach, the wage systems introduced in each sector are, of course, significantly different, and have different links to the public service salary tables, such as teachers or healthcare workers, while social and cultural sector workers receive differentiated allowances. For those employed who have not yet been affected, there is also a significant wage-enhancing effect on the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. [[17 .30]] The minimum wage has increased by almost 120 percent to 161 thousand forints and the guaranteed minimum wage has increased by 135 percent to 210 600 forints since 2010. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you would be a little more fairer, Congressman, you would recognise this performance and we could share this success. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-190	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When is the final phase of the Jászberény bypass expected to be completed? It's an address. Dear Parliament, Mr János Pócs is not in the Chamber [[Intruders, murmurs in the ranks of Jobbik.]] , therefore the house rule is 122. In accordance with paragraph 5 of Section 5 of this Article, its intention to state the question shall be deemed to be withdrawn. I thank you, Members, for giving me the opportunity to speak to Mr Balczó. Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why can't the Government stop the damage to the nature of Lake Balaton? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-191	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In November 2019 I asked Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, how the government intends to stop the damage to nature and the destruction of reeds on the shore of Lake Balaton. At the same time, Minister of State Farkas replied, and in his reply he said, I quote: "The government will act without delay and decisively against the harmful organisms of Hungarian natural resources, during which he immediately prohibits the injured party from doing illegal activities, imposes a dissuasive penalty and obliges the original state to be restored, and, if necessary, informs the investigative bodies."Well, based on the information provided by the Balaton Association in February this year, he says that the area on the shore of Lake Balaton has increased more than double the area from which the reed was wiped out by the owners of the properties, and in the resort region, about half of those who asked for the winter nadation were killed last year instead of harvesting. According to their information, if there is no reed, there will be no Balaton either. In addition to water quality and coastal protection, about 1,200 hectares of reeds of the lake also play a significant role in the conservation of aquatic life. Well, on the basis of the above-mentioned expert opinions, this harmful activity has been and continues for a long time. This means that the current official action is not capable of deterring the injured. You have the right to ask yourself, Mr. Secretary, what is the reason for this. Is there a lack of firm, consistent action or lack of appropriate legislative instruments? Therefore, when it comes to the latter, I ask that the government intends to initiate a legislative amendment in this matter. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. You have the floor.
u2020-02-17-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the damage to nature that has occurred has always been immediately investigated by the relevant nature conservation authorities of the government agencies, and that the natural person or company has been ordered to fully restore the area concerned at their own expense, and that penalties have been imposed in all their procedures. In my opinion, there is no need to amend the relevant legislation, but I would like to inform you that a minor but more important legislative amendment has been made in this area, since, under the law on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development, as of 1 January of this year, the nature conservation authorities, contrary to previous legislation, immediately apply a penalty for the first infringement. Mr President, I would just like to inform you that you are referring to an alleged professional document, and for the sake of my professional response next time, please forward this reference, because we cannot correct it precisely. However, I would like to point out that, as regards the protection of the Natura 2000 site, I would like to inform you about the long-term plans, that there are a number of already agreed maintenance plans for Natura 2000 sites, which specify in detail the proposals relating to the specific use and priority protection of that area. These aspects are also taken into account by the authorities in the proceedings. Finally, I would like to point out that, in addition to the work of nature conservation authorities, the nature guard, set up in the organisation of national park directorates, is also outstanding in order to identify the damage to nature that you have mentioned and other damage. Colleagues proactively carry out reconnaissance and prevention tasks in order to bring the perpetrators to account as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-194	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Qatar on the publication of the Agreement on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic and special passports until its closure. The government referral is T/8659. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2020-02-17-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the agreement is to ensure visa-free entry and 90 days visa-free stay for holders of Hungarian and Qatari diplomatic and special passports in Hungary and the Qatar State, Hungary and the Republic of Qatar. The delegation of power required for the signature of the Agreement shall be set out in Annex 103/2019. On 22 October 2019 Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, signed the agreement in Doha. Our draft contract developed following expert consultations follows the provisions of our international treaties on the same subject as other countries and is in line with the rights and obligations arising from our country's membership of the European Union and Schengen. The agreement was signed in Hungarian, English and Arabic, and the law publishes the authentic Hungarian and English text. The partial visa waiver agreement consists of 15 articles and contains detailed rules for the holders of Hungarian diplomatic and special passports in Hungary and Qatar for 90 days of visa-free stay within 180 days. They have a special passport for the highest-ranking state leaders. Members of diplomatic or consular missions and delegations accredited to international organisations, as well as members of their families living in the same household, shall continue to be required to obtain a visa and a residence permit from the host State prior to their entry. To sum up, therefore, Mr President, Mr House, the aim of this agreement is to allow Hungarian and Qatari citizens who have diplomatic and special passports to travel to each other's territory without a visa and to be free there for 90 days. The conclusion of the agreement will therefore avoid the loss of time and the administrative burden associated with prior visa management. The signatory parties shall, of course, undertake to comply fully with the laws and other provisions in force in the territory of the other Party. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-02-17-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This year it will be 30 years since Hungary established diplomatic relations with the Qatar State at ambassador level. [[17.40]] It is therefore to be welcomed that, on the round anniversary, we can raise relations between the two countries to a higher level, especially in the light of the fact that Qatar has become one of the most important players in the region during these three decades, thanks to its rapid economic development. The country is one of the most advanced Arab countries today and has a world record in terms of per capita income. Qatar's economic strength did not even plunge into the effects of the blockade that lasted more than two years against him, and, moreover, beyond economic power, it succeeded in bringing strategically important external relations to a new level with the largest international players, including the United States and Turkey. We can therefore say that today Qatar has grown into a key player in the Gulf of Persia, which is why it is important that we continue to build our relations with the country. Although I do not want to take up my fellow Members' time with a detailed presentation of the Qatari-Hungarian relations, it can be concluded in any way that there is currently very serious cooperation between the two countries. We have strong relations with Qatar in the fields of trade, finance, energy, tourism or even education and culture. In order to mention a specific number, however, it should be pointed out that Hungary's exports to the country only increased by 48 percent last year, reaching $40 million. This diverse economic, cultural and political cooperation requires that the work of the diplomats assisting it be facilitated by conventions. Ladies and gentlemen, Although Hungarian-Catar relations may not dominate the discourse on our foreign policy at the moment, the agreement before us is an important and positive development. This is, on the one hand, a practical logistical step that will make the overall relations between the two countries smoother and, on the other hand, also symbolically important: another result of the government's characteristic, proactive foreign policy. Finally, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with all these considerations in mind, I would like to point out that the Fidesz Group supports the publication of the agreement, and I would also like to ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for the word and attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor.
u2020-02-17-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We support this bill on the part of the KDNP fraction, which aims to bring this agreement into the domestic legal order. The agreement facilitates the development of economic, political and cultural relations between our countries, while also taking into account our EU obligations. Hungary established a diplomatic relationship with Qatar in 1990, since then several agreements have been signed, including the avoidance of double taxation, economic, business and technical cooperation agreements, energy cooperation declarations, higher education, scientific, research and technological cooperation agreements, as well as air transport agreements with Qatar. Based on a bilateral air transport agreement, Qatar Airways has been operating on the Doha-Budapest route for several years, providing direct connections between our countries, which also has a positive impact on tourism and economic relations between the two countries. In the framework of the Eastern opening policy, Qatar is of particular importance in Hungary's foreign and economic policy. In this context, energy cooperation was also revived between the two countries, since Qatar has the third largest gas supply in the world and is the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas. If Croatia builds the Liquefied Natural Gas Receiver terminal, it will be possible to buy liquefied natural gas from Katar sometime after 2021 - this would also contribute to the diversification and security of the Hungarian energy supply. Finally, it should be mentioned that the World Football Championship will be held in Qatar in 2022, and I would like to highlight only the Hungarian peculiarity in the preparation of which is that Hungarian audiovisual technologies will be used in the Qatar stadiums - another success for the Hungarian economy. Of course, we support the agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, A routine visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic and special passports, a similar agreement was concluded last November with regard to the Kingdom of Bahrain, supported by the MSZP fraction. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-202	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-02-17-203	[[The congressman's mic isn't working.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm very glad this agreement is here. [[He's holding his microphone in front of him on signal.]] before this House - I hope you can hear me now - and also that my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has highlighted the importance of previous agreements in the relationship between Qatar and Hungary, and this is also a point that will strengthen this relationship. In part, I would like to ask the Secretary of State that last year the Interparlamental Union Assembly took place in Qatar, and as far as I know, at that time the Qatari party was open to the establishment of a Hungarian-Catarian group of friends. According to my information, Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, supports this with its full chest width. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he knows where this process is going, and when there will be a group of friends among our parliaments, which may also serve and support the deepening of this relationship in the future. I'll thank you if you'll be a partner in this and answer the question. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-204	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, there's another two-minute opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. There is now room for further speeches by Members. (No applicants.) I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-17-205	Thank you very much. I have nothing to say, and I thank the honourable Members for their support in this matter. And I can tell Congressman Steinmetz that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is never an obstacle, but is always in favour of deepening this type of cooperation. In particular, where this parliamentary cooperation is going in this regard, I will look into the specifics and I will inform you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-17-206	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the publication of a resolution of 1/2019 of the ECLT Joint Committee on the replacement of Annex I to the ECLT Agreement on Civil Aviation rules, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/8660. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-02-17-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the presentation on the agenda is to publish by law the multilateral agreement establishing a European Common Aviation Area between the European Community and its Member States and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania and the Republic of Serbia, which is the so-called ECLT Agreement. The ECLT Agreement was signed on behalf of the European Community on 9 June 2006 and entered into force on 1 December 2017 following the ratification of all Contracting Parties. The agreement in Hungary is set out in the 2006 LXII. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The aim of the agreement is to establish a European Common Aviation Area, which is an important step towards integrating the Western Balkans region into European aviation airspace. The process promotes economic growth and competitiveness of all contracting parties. [[17.50]] The common aviation market established by the agreement also confers a significant economic advantage on air transport operators and air passengers, as it affects more than 500 million inhabitants in 36 countries. At the same time, by applying the same rules, the agreement also guarantees a high level of aviation safety and safety standards. The European Commission estimates that the establishment of a European Common Aviation Area has already led to a triple connection between urban couples and a doubling of passengers between the Western Balkans region and the European Union. Pursuant to the EKLT Agreement, the Parties shall build the rules of the European Common Aviation Area on the relevant legislation in force in the European Union listed in Annex I to the Agreement. The Annex was reviewed and updated with a view to the entry into force of the Agreement on 1 December 2017. In Decision No 1 of 2019 of the Joint Committee under the Agreement, the new text of Annex I to the ECLT Agreement was established. Since the Annex forms an integral part of the Agreement, it should be published in law pursuant to Act L of 2005 on the Procedure for International Contracts. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is, as has been said, the publication by law of the Decision of the ECLT Joint Committee of 1/2019 replacing Annex I to the ECLT Agreement. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill for legislative harmonisation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Air transport agreements covering the functioning of the European Common Aviation Area are in place. They aim to promote general economic, trade and tourism relations, to provide consumers with more choice and to develop new opportunities for market participants. The faster, cheaper and more efficient operation of air transport systems is in the common interest of both European citizens and businesses. If we are talking about a common European airspace, it is important to comply with high standards of air transport so as to ensure high standards of aviation safety and security. This is a basic requirement for the safety of all of us and of all citizens. I say this not only as the lead speaker of the Fidesz fraction, but also as the parliamentary representative of Rákosmente and Kőbánya-Kertváros located next to Ferihegy airport. The Common Aviation Area shall also facilitate institutional cooperation between competent authorities. In June 2006, the EU and its Member States concluded an agreement on a common European airspace with the countries of the Western Balkans, as Mr State Secretary explained. The ECLT Agreement was signed on behalf of the European Community on 9 June 2006 and entered into force on 1 December 2017 following the ratification of all Contracting Parties. This international agreement states that the ECLT Joint Committee shall be 1/2019. In its Decision No 1/2005, it laid down a new text of Annex I to the Agreement. The purpose of the bill before us is to announce an amendment to the EKLT agreement. Within civil aviation rules, it deals with aviation liberalisation, aviation safety, aviation security, air traffic services, environmental and noise protection - it is very important - social aspects and consumer protection regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of all that is set out in the proposal and which Mr Secretary of State said in his exposé, together with the argument system I have presented, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The amendment to the multilateral agreement establishing the European Common Aviation Area entered into force in international law on 1 September 2019, the European Community and its Member States under the ECLT Agreement and at least one associated party may decide to apply the provisions of the Agreement provisionally from the date of signature. On this basis, Hungary applied the provisions of the EKLT Agreement on a provisional basis as from 18 July 2006, and the EKLT Agreement was applied by LXII of 2006. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. Given that new Community acts have been adopted since the signature of the Agreement, which are important for the implementation of the Agreement, the EKLT Joint Committee has established a new text of Annex I to the Agreement. The Agreement signed on behalf of the European Community on 9 June 2006 was intended to establish a European Common Aviation Area. ECLT is based on free market access, freedom of establishment, a level playing field and common rules on safety, security, air traffic services, social and environmental issues. Under the EKLT Agreement, the Parties consider it appropriate to build the rules of the European Common Aviation Area on the relevant legislation in force in the European Union listed in Annex I to the Agreement. The Joint Committee for the care and proper implementation of the Agreement shall be 1/2019. re-established the new text of Annex I to the EKLT Agreement. The bill was adopted on 1/2019 on the replacement of Annex I to the ECLT Agreement. It provides for the publication by law of a decision of the ECLT Joint Committee, which we support on the part of the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-17-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Decision No 1/2019 of the ECLT Joint Committee The MSZP fraction supports the publication of its decision in law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-02-17-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. I don't see any contact. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-17-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, A multilateral agreement establishing a European Common Aviation Area between the Member States of the European Community and the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania and the Republic of Serbia was concluded on 9 June 2006 and entered into force on 1 December 2017 following the ratification of all Contracting Parties. We are talking about amending this annex. What does this annex regulate? It is very important in the field of aviation, as it regulates the functioning of the market, insurance requirements, applicable slots, airport charges, ground handling, computer reservation system, en block security - this is what the EU Commission regulations deal with most - and includes operating bans on unsafe air carriers, fines and other sanctions, as well as technical requirements. So, as we can see, this particular annex has a very important role to play, and indeed it regulates European aviation traffic in a comprehensive way. But one of the most important things we need to talk about is security, because we have been talking about this particularly since the terrorist attacks in America. The European Parliament has always seen civil aviation security as one of the EU's priorities. This is where I think first of all about preventing and avoiding terrorist attacks, and this has been supported by the EU for a rigorous and effective system, while stressing the importance of the fundamental rights of citizens, the need for aviation security measures to protect privacy, human dignity and the health of citizens - and this is very important now, including health protection in aviation - to be offset by strong and adequate safeguards. [[18.00]] But as I said, security has the highest priority. The European Parliament and the Council have also adopted regulations on this issue on a continuous basis, which are included in the Annex. Common rules for aviation security have been put in place and common basic requirements have been laid down and mechanisms have been developed to monitor compliance with them. On this basis, each Member State is responsible for the safety of flights from its territory and the Member State of departure is therefore always responsible. All passengers, crews and baggage shall be inspected before boarding, the cargo shall be inspected before loading and subjected to appropriate safety tests. This therefore regulates minimum requirements. Member States may take more stringent security measures, but not less stringent measures. It's the least I can do. With regard to the Single European Sky, I would like to say that the aim of the initiative was to increase the efficiency of air traffic and air navigation services and to reduce the fragmentation of European airspace. Due to its nature, the initiative is pan-European and open to countries outside the European Union. This is how the current initiative will be taken, when other countries outside the European Union, but also belonging to Europe, have been involved. The aim is to improve aviation in a number of respects through greater integration of European airspace, and this can bring huge benefits. Statistics have also been prepared on this. For example, airspace capacity has tripled compared to 2004 levels, mainly as a result of this Convention. But air safety has increased tenfold, which I think is the most important thing in aviation. It is a very nice indicator that air safety has increased tenfold compared to 2004 figures. In addition, the environmental impact of aviation decreased by 10 percent, which is also a very, very important issue today. Then an important issue is the civil and military use of European airspace and the elimination and smoothing of conflicts of interest between them, which is also an important task, as well as the reduction of fragmentation, thereby increasing airspace capacity and improving the efficiency of air traffic and air navigation services. The introduction of this convention has brought a number of positive benefits. For example, regulatory tasks have been separated from the provision of services, making civil and military airspace use much more flexible. The classification of high airspace has been consolidated, a common system of remuneration has been introduced in the field of air navigation services, a uniform set of requirements for air traffic management licences, which is once again important. The Network Manager's task is to enhance the performance of the EU aviation network, and this will continue to happen in the European Union. The objective of the functional airspace block is to eliminate the fragmentation of European airspace by redistributing the airspace not along national borders, but in line with traffic flows. This has also significantly accelerated air transport and, at the same time, reduced the cost of air navigation services. We can therefore conclude that these agreements have increased the efficiency of air traffic services throughout Europe. In addition, what I have not mentioned yet, the average delays have also decreased significantly, with a fall of about half in ten years. Obviously, this is also in the interest of the travelling public, and the other, in addition to safety, the cost-effectiveness of how much we can make a certain kilometer. Significant improvements can also be reported here between 2009 and 2014. Therefore, this regulation also means that prices have decreased at the same time for one kilometer of flight. This regulation also had negative effects, as this is an open market. Obviously, when a country opens its market in its entirety and enters such a unit, this can also result in certain negatives. Hungary has been negatively affected by the liberalisation of flight rules, as Malév has also partially ceased because the new regulations have opened the market. While in the past one airline was State owned and the airports were state-owned, the national airline was able to be supported by a State through a state-owned Dotation. However, with the liberalisation of airspace, national airlines have been kept in the background. This process started in 1978 when an airline deregulation law was adopted in the United States, which was also ringing into Europe, and eight years later, in 1986, a similar EU treaty was signed. However, aviation has become the first mode of transport to benefit from a fully integrated single EU market. No other transport sector has been able to take advantage of this. However, some airlines have not been able to keep up with the changes that have taken place in air traffic, and unfortunately, these included the Hungarian airline, which has not been able to properly monitor the current market environment. As a result, Malév, as we know the story, has ceased to exist. However, we can see that this system, which was adopted earlier and now has a new annex before the Honourable Parliament, has a fundamentally positive impact on aviation safety and has a positive impact on environmental protection and prices. And given that this is a legislative harmonisation proposal, Jobbik supports T/8660. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-216	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your detailed, comprehensive assessment. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-02-17-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank the honourable Member for her proposals in support of the European Common Aviation Area and the amendment of the law for the aviation industry and the aviation business. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-218	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, has applied for a post- Agenda address:.The situation on Lake Fertő is unchanged, or what is a Zrt. entitled to if it is fidesz? It's an address. I give you the floor.
u2020-02-17-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The situation around Lake Fertő is unchanged, and Lake Fertő belongs to the inhabitants of the Sopron region. Why am I bringing into the walls of this House the very big development plan that Fidesz is planning on the shore of Lake Fertő? No one is arguing that there is a great need for a complete renewal of the beach in Fertőrákos, but there are a lot of organisations, environmentalists and people living there, entrepreneurs, fishermen, boat owners, owners of pile houses, who have a big problem with a megaloman investment at the border of nature conservation Natura 2000, and this area is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site, a tremendously large hotel, a huge yacht port, completely overpriced, suspected for the circles near Fidesz. [[18.10]] We believe that there has been a very serious cooperation between the Hungarian Association of Friends of Lake Fertő, of which I am a founding member, and the Austrian organisation Freunde des Neusiedlersees. We have recently formulated a joint proposal for a decision, in which we have drawn the attention of stakeholders to carry out cross-border impact assessments in accordance with international law and EU rules, as this has not happened to date. This does not mean that we are on Austrian side, as the Fidesz footage emphasizes, because, for example, my friend Rudolf Golubikh, founder of Freunde des Neusiedlersees, said very seriously - in this proposal for a resolution - that Burgenland policy raises just as serious problems, since it also supports large projects that do not build on the environment or even promote real estate speculation. So we are not treating this in an Austrian-Hungarian nexus, because we believe that Lake Fertő belongs to the inhabitants of our region, the inhabitants of the historical Western Hungary. In summary, there are still a lot of open questions. It is no coincidence that the municipality of Sopron announced the next phase of public procurement on 23 December, while the Sopron-Fertő Tourism Developer Nonprofit Zrt., I don't know if he is the trustee of the area and what legal authority he has for barely letting people in there for a year, the representatives of the press are not allowed in. I went there several times myself, and a security man with a strict-eyed, non-Sopronian dialect stands next to a barrier, stares strictly, and says that there is no way in, because it is the construction site, and it can only go that far. Why did they prevent the operation of Hungarian ships while the Austrian ship could operate a year ago? What are the reasons why the operation of Hungarian entrepreneurs, holiday homes and buffets was prohibited while the Austrian could operate? A year ago, a hoof cut did not take place in this area, and the inhabitants of the Sopron region were excluded from Lake Fertő, while the Zrt. its leaders do not talk to stakeholders, entrepreneurs, journalists. We don't know that there was a profit analysis of this investment, because the objects will have to be operated, and I'll tell you that after 8:00, no one will be left on the terrace of this hotel, because there are so many mosquitoes around Lake Fertő. I know that because my father had a boat here, by the way. In summary, we wish to review this large investment, our former director of the National Park of Lake Fertő, Gábor Reischl, has developed an alternative plan in which not only the people of Fertőrákos, but also the hillstone and the Baldies will finally get to Lake Fertő in fair conditions. That's our goal and nothing else. The inhabitants of Lake Fertő and the Sopron region deserve more than that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-02-17-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Why does the Hungarian Government not finally hear the cry for help of domestic beekeepers? It's an address. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2020-02-17-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Well, I'm not here to talk about the problem of Hungarian honey and beekeepers on a monthly basis, because it's my heart's desire, but because they simply don't listen to their cry for help. And it really is now that the Hungarian beekeeper society is living its final days, its end years, and if the same trends, which now persist, continue to flow, then we get to the point that Hungarian honey will be practically a concept known only from history books. Unfortunately, not only the practical steps, but also the European initiatives, and even the symbolic steps, are missing. If I do not mention anything else, perhaps so much that it has been created here, the Hungarian honey parliamentary group within the framework of Parliament. We have invited all the MPs who may be involved in this subject to work together, not even a single reply has been received from you. In the same way that when we invited the relevant government representative to a roundtable discussion on the same issue, no one arrived from there, as I see now, because I do not see any pro-government politicians who can respond effectively, there are no members of the government here, so I will probably not be able to get an answer to these suggestions now. The problem is at European level. Nothing can prove better than the recently formed Association with the participation of 20 countries for the European Bees. They also protested in Brussels, but as we look forward to deaf answers here, I can actually say that we can protest at home, because these steps are largely dependent on the domestic government. Brutal imports of fake honey - this is typically Chinese or possibly Ukrainian, but also Ukrainian is often Chinese - cannot be kept up quite simply; European and domestic honey-producing families cannot keep up with this. They want to buy up for a euro, say, a kilo of Hungarian honey from producers. It can be seen that this is impossible, it is not possible to produce quality honey. All the government has done is increase the health support per bee family from 500 forints to 1,000 forints. This was the huge increase in aid announced with a huge derell-flat, which is certainly welcome and eligible, but far from the need to change this situation. Beekeepers would expect immediate and effective action to change unsportsmanly market conditions, since we should not forget that bees, in addition to producing honey for us, also act as bio-indicators, and this gives them an increasingly important role in our increasingly changing environment. For example, it is clear from this role that honey production is falling, production averages are falling, so insects are not feeling well at all even if they survive winter or tougher periods. This is indicated by the decreasing crop average. However, buying-in prices have fallen by around 40% in recent years, while costs have increased significantly. What, then, do we have every right to expect from the government? For example, a marketing package that can help us move forward so that we do not become the EU's hosts in terms of honey consumption. While Hungarian acacia can be called Hungaricum, Hungary is also significant in its production worldwide, while domestic consumption is around one kilogram of honey per year, which is about half of the EU average. So this is an area where the Hungarian government would have something to do with it, and it has a right to act in this area. They're not asking for charity. It is very important to understand that Hungarian beekeepers are not asking for alms, they only want fair buying prices after their year-round work. It would be good for the government to reach a single bee family-based support - this is already a European scene - and since we are in the final stages of the next seven-year budget cycle of the European Union, there is hope now, it is possible to achieve such a general support. Where is the promised European trademark? For many years, we have been talking about how a European honey mark could help those consumers, conscious European buyers, to recognize the honey that was produced in Europe if they wanted to consume it. These are the market protection measures that I think we should fully expect radical action to take, but, as I see it, the answer is still missing. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-02-17-222	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2020-02-17-223	Mr President, Dear House, With Minister Gulyás today, I had a very sharp blade change in the exchange rate of the forint promising extremely weak, bad and hopeless processes, where the Minister clearly did not want to understand what I had to say, nor did he take on the professional arguments to which he could otherwise have responded on a professional basis. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. So I will try to shed much calmer light on the untenable situation surrounding the exchange rate of the forint in the hour after the agenda. I promise not to quote many pro-government leaders who said before 2010 that weak people want weak forints, and under certain forints, a government has to resign. The fact is that if we compare the Hungarian forint/euro exchange rate only with February 2019, i.e. one year ago, we will find about 20 HUF difference, but in the period before 2010, it was also in the 260-280 band, which was now 340. [[18.20]] I am very pleased with the oral intervention of the Hungarian National Bank, by the way. The MNB should intervene a lot harder. In this case, Jobbik's faction will also submit a proposal, an amendment to the Central Bank Act under which the central bank would have an exchange rate target, as they have now tried to stop this process at a very negative, tragic border of 340, by setting a border between one and the other, so it should be possible for the current government of Hungary and the central bank, which is able to intervene in particular, to stop negative processes. I am told here by those honest fellow Members who deserve respect and have entered into professional debates on this issue, that, yes, imported products are more expensive because of the negative and very weak forint prices, please buy home! And I totally agree with that. I have regular jungle wars in various supermarkets, when I argue with my partner that I would be willing to take home only Hungarian vegetables and fruits from what they come from. And when hunting after the 400-450 HUF snake pickle, we often find that, indeed, Hungarian product is not really available in most chains. The paprika is also similar, and in terms of apples we see that in one of the largest French networks there is essentially no Hungarian apple. And the fact is that not only are we forced to buy imported products for basic foods, but also for many other articles. This is a negative process, a wrong and a reverse process, but this is the current situation. If we look at a typical consumer basket, we see that imported products account for a large proportion and that, for certain product groups, the purchase of imported products is inevitable. If you think that you would like to buy a Samsung television, Hungarian-made television sets are relatively rare, but every household has one. Many people say - and I can identify with their worldview in some way - that it was a happier age when it wasn't in every household, but it is now. So this is the particular situation to start from, and indeed, compared to the HUF price a year ago, it is now almost HUF 21,000 to pay more for such a device because of the deterioration of the forint. We also see that if you want to buy a laptop and compare it with the price calculated on the basis of the HUF price a year ago, you will certainly have to pay more than HUF 16,000 just because of the deterioration of the forint. The fact is that the reason for the amazing costs that Hungarian people are burdened with must be explained. The reason is completely visible. Multi-enterprises, multi-networks who come to the country can set up a production line cheaper than weak forints, and they certainly have much more opportunities to pay the otherwise abnormally low Hungarian wages, and they need less euros to pay the same amount of forints. This is the case even if my happy fellow Member may dispute it. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] And, therefore, it is also noted that the unjustified tax incentives and the benefits that multi-company companies enjoy are in many cases completely unnecessary. This discount mass or much of it should be pushed towards Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but this is not what is happening. While we see, looking at another commodity, that if someone, say, wants to buy a Bosch stove - because Hungarian-made stoves are not all over the stores - then we can see that they pay more than 10 thousand forints compared to the price of a year ago. These articles, my fellow Members, are typically purchased by Hungarian households, and you are burdening Hungarian consumers with undue burdens. I dispute that you have the right to do so, but you certainly have no right to do so on a professional basis. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Do not engage in any debate with us in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-02-17-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group asked for a speech:. What is your plan with the Dobian psychiatrist? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-225	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It may be surprising to hear the same speech twice a day, but I must say, in the genre on the agenda that has been said, the oral question, you cannot tell the history and present of the institution of Dobai in two minutes, and we are trying to look into its future. If I'm trying to triangulate the past period in the life of the Dobian psychiatric institution, then we have to start in December 2019, when an internal material leaked, according to which there will be restructuring, restructuring, class closure in several health institutions, and here was also mentioned the psychiatric institution operating in the Erdődy Castle in Doba. Here, 200 patients are being cared for, and according to the news, this paper wrote that more patients are being placed in the Shumeg Centre and the patients are being admitted to their homes. At that time, I asked the Minister with a written question. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári struck the question with a two-line political response. He said it's nothing like that, it's just a political hysterical act. When I published this answer on my social media site, a lot of people working there approached me and said that the opposite was true. That's when I took the liberty of going to Sümeg psych ward and to the Dobai castle, and there I asked about it. In both places, it was confirmed that you do not understand why the Secretary of State lied about this. Evacuation is already underway. Out of the 200 patients, 90 patients are either at home or - now hold on. - to a homeless shelter, and 110 patients will be transferred to Sümeg Psychiatric and the chronic ward that's being emptied. There are more questions to ask. One: if a Member asks a written question to a government actor, what does that government actor have to do with it? To answer in order, with decency, to a congressman who wants to do his job, or to try to hide that thing and lie with his face and set the congressman aside? I think that a secretary of state or a minister must always tell the truth, without or even with the fact that it may sometimes hurt. If we look at this area, this castle, where this institution is situated, we should say that it is a beautiful castle built in the late 1800s outside of Doba, which currently includes a 90-hectare English park; in recent years, this park has been renovated in a total investment of nearly HUF 400 million. Unfortunately, the castle building no longer had such a source, and this castle building was worn out over the years. The second question is: when I turned to Mr Secretary of State on a second question and his lie was exposed, he had already tried to take the question in a professional direction. In its reply, it stated that Article 21 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. They're trying to provide psychiatric treatment for all patients in the first century, and they're taking this direction towards outpatient care. Here's my question: that patient, that psychiatric patient, that addict who's a resident, and once again, he's trying to get the attention of nurses, doctors, and he's not taking the medication, and then he's going to the outpatient clinic? Who takes responsibility for his condition getting worse? On the other hand, what kind of psychiatric treatment can the homeless shelter in Tapolca provide? Nothing. What happens to those patients when the crisis is over and they are released from the homeless shelter, there is no need to provide care because they have no Tapolca ties? That's what we call an OPNI 2 in Doba's case, which you're carrying out. The question arises who will own the castle. It's probably a new Dumpster. But most importantly, what about the people who work there? The board of the Veszprém Hospital held a meeting that they would be very happy to take over the 120 employees who are working there at the moment. One of them can go to Sümeg psych ward with his patients and continue to treat him, and the other part can go to Csolnoky Hospital in Veszprém. Ladies and gentlemen, Each institution travels for two hours. Who's paying them for these two hours? Nobody. And if they didn't use that option, they're trying to impose a mean penalty that only 50% of their severance pay is paid by the employer by working 35-40 years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in this institution. I think that the next time a Member asks a question, [[The president's ringing again.]] The minimum is that the Secretary of State gives an honest and professional response. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[18.30]]
u2020-02-17-226	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "The Queen of the West." I give you the floor.
u2020-02-17-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The fact is that all of Hungary has a huge problem is that there are a lot of GP practices that are unfilled. This is the lack of a doctor that people first and most sense when they go to the doctor, and this is the lack of a doctor that in many places means that for more than eight years there has been no doctor's practice filled. The same is true of Szombathely. There are three permanently unfilled children's home care districts, and in addition there is a generally unfilled home care area. At the same time, Szombathely's new leadership has decided that you are trying to alleviate this problem. It will not be able to solve this in a reasonable way, since it is essentially a state competence, and the government does not provide sufficient resources to the municipalities to alleviate such health problems. However, András Nemény and Vice Mayor László tried to mitigate this with a plan with three levels. The first is that the municipality will support the purchase of the general medical practice with a one-time grant of HUF 10 million, and in return it will have to operate this general medical practice for six years. In addition, a municipal grant would apply to its retention: if it has been operating the practice for 15 years, it will receive a HUF 1 million grant once, and there will also be a municipal grant in connection with the transfer, because if a 70-75-year-old doctor surrenders his practice but helps to find his successor, then he will also receive municipal support. These are forward-looking measures, which, we hope, can help fill GP practices in Szombathely. If this works, I am sure that more municipalities will use this model, although I assume that it is not primarily government-led municipalities. At the same time, the acute interference of municipalities shows that there is a serious problem with the government's attitude to health. The fact that the Prime Minister did not mention health in his year-end evaluation is that when the government talks about its own performance, it does not talk about health, because it knows precisely that its own voters feel that Hungarian health is in a very bad state. By the way, the rest of Vas County has more unfilled GP practice. There were serious problems with this, by the way, in the Watch. So, overall, this is a forward-looking initiative, for which I think it is appropriate to give the mayor and deputy mayor a stroke in this House. But the fact that this initiative will have to be introduced in Szombathely County City shows that the Orbán government has not solved the problems of Hungarian health care in ten years, and has even done the most harm in this area. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the Holocaust's international memorial day, Mr István Simicskó, KDNP Group asked for a speech. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2020-02-17-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On January 27, 2020 it was 75 years ago that the largest World War II extermination camp, Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, was liberated by Soviet troops. At the invitation of EMIH, I was able to attend the commemoration as a member of the delegation of the Hungarian Parliament. It was creepy to see barracks, barbed wire, former gas chambers, crematoriums. It was shocking to meet Holocaust survivors and it was touching to hear their life story. I thought it was important to remember the innocent victims here in the Hungarian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, we know history from our studies, including by telling stories by our parents and grandparents. We know that, unfortunately, in the decades after the First World War, the various anti-Semitic groups, political forces, have soon come to power. As early as 1920, the numerus clausus was introduced, which discriminated against Hungarian Jews, and later further laws were passed and many of them were put in an unworthy position. From 19 March 1944, following the Nazi occupation, the collection of Jews into the ghetto began, and the deportations began with the unfortunately willing support of the then Hungarian administration. It took less than two months, from 15 May to 9 July, 445,000 people were taken from Hungary to various concentration camps. Many have fallen victim to experiments. In the first steps of the Auschwitz camp, Polish, Soviet, Russian prisoners of war, the Slavs were also tried to destroy them, and later unfortunately, they tried those drugs on Jewish women and girls by experimenting to make them inconclusive. These are incredible and shocking stories. The Nazis divided Hungary into six zones: the transport of the Jews began in Transcarpathia, then they moved the unfortunate people from northern Transylvania, northern Hungary, the regions of the Great Plain, and finally from Transdanubia. Dear Parliament, Think about it: 55,000 Hungarian citizens of Jewish origin were taken to extermination camps every week. Technically, a city of mice was destroyed in a week. Four hundred and thirty thousand of our countrymen were taken away to camp Auschwitz-Birkenau. It was terrifying to see the barracks, the wagons, where, after systematic selection, the children and the mothers were immediately taken to gas chambers with the elderly, and the men and women who were able to work were forced to work and worked to death. After an immense suffering of 75 years, some of them managed to survive the horrors. I heard there that a survivor told me about the life of a Rabbi from Cluj. Yehudah Halberstam had nine children, and with his wife they went to Auschwitz-Birkenau, only the rabbi survived the horrors of the camp, all nine of his children died there with his wife. He remarried in 1947, and then had seven children with his new wife. In 1975, he founded a hospital in Israel, which still works today. The only medical institution in Israel where there has never been a strike does not paralyze the healing strike and where more than 6,000 babies are born every year. I think we need to learn from past mistakes, learn from these fates, the instinct to survive, see the human depths and the human heights, the possibility and importance of starting over, respect these people who were able to stand up and survive these horrors. This is how we can build a more human world. I believe that all Hungarian citizens are safe in Hungary today. It is important that such a tragedy and such discrimination, such discrimination, should never occur, as is the case in Article XX. We saw you in the first century. Today, the Hungarian government guarantees the safety of all minorities, all our citizens. I hope that will be for a very, very long time. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-02-17-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, also came forward after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank Congressman Simicskó for his memorable thoughts. I think we can absolutely agree on this issue, and this was a very important memorial comment. Dear Parliament, It's been a few months since the municipal elections. In connection with the municipal elections, the government acknowledged its defeat, and there was a very significant reorganization, apart from Budapest, in the management of rural cities. Orbán then said in a hurry that he would be a partner of the capital and partner of the rural cities with opposition leadership, and the government gave them every opportunity to carry out their duties. However, in recent months, it is not really possible to find out that the government is really treating rural cities as partners, especially cities with opposition leadership. Moreover, the government has initiated measures of a kind and voted by the Fidesz majority which make the operation and management of these settlements more difficult. We know that many city leaders have started this five - year cycle with a very difficult legacy, and there are settlements where, due to the poor performance of former city leaders, city leaders face very serious debts. In the case of Pécs, it should also be said that the city has a repayment obligation of about HUF 8.5 billion until the end of this year, and it is quite clear to everyone that the city cannot do so. I think we can agree that it is not possible to punish the population of a city because, say, in a cycle or in two cycles, a majority of city leaders were unable to perform their duties properly. [[18.40]] It is very, very important that, overall, it is very difficult for these settlements to carry out that enormous mass of tasks, especially in cities with county rights, which is their responsibility, and we know that there are very serious problems on the source side, and that it is not appropriate since cycles. So, from the time before the current Fidesz course, the funding of the tasks of the municipalities is very poor. At the same time, we can now take action on the part of the government - at a rhetorical level only - in a kind of green light, right, the government began to communicate counter-intelligence on the importance of climate change after a few months, and the government began to take environmental problems, environmental damage and the fight against them seriously. Now, I would not go along with how credible this can be, but I believe that we can agree with my fellow MPs, whether it is pro-government or opposition, that it is not possible to ensure sustainability at the level of a city if there is no proper public transport. There has also been a very serious cut in this area. We know that the Fidesz majority here has adopted a law that forces local governments to finance public transport services first from local business tax and then to spend on other tasks, and to add that it is almost impossible for these municipalities to finance this huge task on their own. So in Hungarian, after the municipal elections, the government withdrew from the support of local public transport. We can say that this is a sign of unsolvable problems in most rural cities. So I would like to draw the attention of my fellow members of the government - members of the government are not present - that this is an unsustainable state and that it is not punishing opposition city leaders, not opposition mayors, but also people living in these cities, including otherwise pro-government voters. That's unacceptable. This will certainly render the fight against air pollution ineffective, let's say. So I would certainly ask my fellow Members to think about what kind of problem they are throwing at these cities, the people who live there. Another problem is this, and I have already said a lot about it here in Parliament, that the water utility system is on the brink of collapse. It will be very difficult for these municipalities to provide healthy drinking water, and it will be very difficult to ensure that waste water is properly disposed of and waste water is cleaned. And then again, we're going to attach you to an environmental problem that, I think, makes sense to all of us. If there is no adequate source for the operation of these utilities, there will be very, very serious further damage, the water bases will be damaged, and this will cause such incalculable damage to the future that any change of course will take place here, say, in two years' time, it will hardly be possible to correct these problems. There's some pretty amazing numbers to talk about here. Here, it is necessary for those responsible for care to prepare a so-called rolling development plan for the next 15 years, and the profession estimates a 15-year-long shortage of resources, i.e. the amount that will be necessary to maintain this most important public service, drinking water supply and sanitation, and the appropriate replacement and maintenance work can be carried out. So here on the first day of the spring session, I am asking my fellow members of the pro-government group, and I would also like to say to the members of the government and also to the Prime Minister, after the agenda, that if they really think for one minute that they want to face these extremely serious challenges, they will accept that a large part of these struggles must be fought at local level, and that these resources must be provided to the municipalities. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, from the DK Group, also came forward after the agenda:. 175 years - 175 pictures - Memories on the title of the oeuvre of Abraham Ganz. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-233	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, On Saturday, István Széchenyi's House of Culture was opened in my constituency, the exhibition entitled "The 175 years - 175 pictures" was opened. The exhibition commemorates the fact that Abraham Ganz founded the technical background of the railway installation in Hungary 175 years ago and is the creator of his first independent company, thus creating industrial history. The 175 photos of the exhibition's material, the railway vehicles of the Ganz Works, were compiled by György Kemény, a young man working with the MÁV, an obsessive railroadman who spends all his free time and money on this hobby of collecting railway relics. At that time, Abraham Ganz was a Swiss iron-making lad, who had learned everything he could from manufacturing technology at his age in Europe's developed industrialized countries, as usual. During his wandering trip, he arrived in the city of Pest in 1842, at the age of 28, and was first placed in the mill factory's machine shop. But he's been on his own since 1844. In Buda, he founded the iron casting workshop with only seven assistants on a watertown street, where production began 170 years ago. The street today bears his name, rightly, because the whole Hungarian machine industry and steel metallurgy grew largely out of this small foundry. The workshop quickly became successful and started to develop, not only through Ganz's expertise, which highlighted him far from among those with technical knowledge in Hungary, but also because this decade is a period of reform breakthrough, civilization, the initial steps of the industrial revolution in Hungary. In 1840 the first Hungarian, modern bank, Pesti Magyar Kereskedelmi Bank, was established; among its founders, István Széchenyi and István set the foundation stone of the Chain Bridge in 1842. The bridge also includes casts from Abraham Ganz's factory. On 15 June 1846 the first railway between Pest and Vác will be handed over. Between 1841-1848, the céhérgy factory manufacture developed into a factory, in the case of 60 such manufactures. In 1845 the Ganz workshop started production throughout Hungary in steam engine production. The then production was 11 steam engines and 130 horsepower a year, so with the technique of that time. Although, among the castings of the 1848-49 revolution and freedom fighting cannons, it is well known that only Áron Gábor is accounted for, in fact, the guns and weapons made in the Ganz factory had at least such a role in the military success of the Hungarian army, and also Abraham Ganz. After his fall, Ganzo was arrested. His Swiss citizenship saved him from long prison years. After his death, the factory was entrusted to András Mechwart, who continued the work started by Abraham Ganz for 40 years, and participated in the production in almost all areas of the Hungarian manufacturing industry: electric industry, shipbuilding, crane production. His successors were the great innovators of the spiritual life at that time; Otto Blathy, Miksa Déri, Kálmán Kandó, Donát Bánki, János Csonka and later György Jendrassik became world famous in this plant, so the best domestic machine production and technological development eventually. He was Calvinist, Calvinist, Reformed, validated savings, diligence, civic loyalty, and this charity is thanks to Swiss Abraham Ganz. I wanted to make a memento for him. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked to speak after the agenda. Is this how you prepare for the summer tourist season? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-02-17-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that tourism is one of the leading sectors of the Hungarian economy, since more than 10 percent of GDP comes from this sector. The preparation for the tourist season, as strange as it is, had to start a long time ago. In recent years, many hundreds of millions of forints have arrived in Balaton's Highest Holiday District, but I would like to talk about the beach development programmes in my speech today, precisely because I have received several signals in the past few days that these beach development projects were not made in the technical content, not according to the invitation to tender. [[18.50]] And yes, when I went to a beach in Balatonboglár, I saw that in the technical content, the green area development described in the tender: such holes [[He's showing it with his hands.]] They're standing where people lay down their towels, where families would play, where children would be rolling around in the grass. This cannot be resolved in this area. When I said that hundreds of millions of forints had arrived, the emphasis was on the arrival, because it is not a question or pleasure if the Hungarian government provides the funds, but it is only fortunate and only good for Hungary if they are spent in the right places and the investments are made in the quality that the municipalities or coastal companies have decided to make. Besides the beach in Balatonboglár, new beaches have come to pay my respects and see what has been made from the tender source provided by the government and the Hungarian Tourism Agency management. It is absolutely amazing and nonsense, which you approve, because it is not a question that the Hungarian Tourism Agency should look at and observe that these investments are indeed made according to technical content. You have failed to do so, and this is also disappointing because we have such experiences not only in connection with beach development, but also in other areas. I have only one respectful request: let us get to the point where the legislation is enforced, and when the public procurement procedure requires that the investments be made in a first-class quality, they should indeed be prepared in a first-class quality; and when it appears that the coastal defences do not do the renovations, at least the contractor should undertake a bond and a guarantee that they can be prepared with. The fact that this is an important topic, this is not a question, I will be attending the Balaton Development Council on Friday, where two agendas will address the discussion of developments and long-term concepts in the region of Lake Balaton. I look forward to what conceptual issues will be discussed there at the Balaton Development Council and what development ideas they show, because the need to develop beaches is not a question, but in what capacity it is. So I'm just gonna ask you one question: is this how you prepare for the summer tourist season? I hope not. And look into what the resources for which taxpayers work years are being spent. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-236	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group asked for a speech:. What will happen to the water tower in Újpest? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-237	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Let me also take a little historical look back, with the possibility of how the developments that took place 110 years ago actually took place - through a specific example - and the impact it had on our city. As is known, Újpest was an independent city, while XXVI of 1949 on the new definition of the territory of Budapest. Act IV did not attach it to the capital. as a district. In 1840 our village became an independent village from Rákospalota. The number of its inhabitants began to grow, and by the time of the settlement it had already 7 thousand, by 1890 it had 23,000 citizens. The local industry has developed rapidly, the port and the railway station have been built. After 1871, it is a large village, and since 1907 it has more than 50 thousand inhabitants, and it is an orderly city. From this time comes the pride and symbol of the part of the city, the water tower in Újpest, which, at the same time as becoming a city, became permanent for the supply of water to the population. They started laying pipes on the plumbing network in 1911, and on 17 June 1912 the water supply started. However, since water consumption was highly fluctuating, temporary reservoirs had to be provided. For this purpose, construction of the water tower began in June 1911 at the highest point of Újpest, according to the plans of Dr. Győző Mihailich university professor, bridge builder engineer and architect Ödön Dümmerling, with the idea from the beginning to be the town's decoration in addition to performing the tasks of the reservoir. You can say that you did it. Its construction lasted almost exactly a year, and the key to the building on the two and a half meter thick concrete plate, about 40 meters high, 13 meters in diameter at the bottom, was handed over to the head of the water pipe company on 8 July 1912. The water tower was capable of storing 1500 cubic meters of water; the construction cost was 225 thousand kroner. Although the conversion of older currencies is not easy, it is comparable that today it was a HUF 1 billion development. Újpest became the property of the Budapest Vízművek (Középvárosi Vízművek). With technological progress, it provided industrial water supply to factories in the area, which were slowly excluded from the supply of water to the public, but until 2003. He's been out of use ever since. Today, it is an industrial monument, the beauty of Újpest, but unfortunately, the district has nothing to do with it in the legal sense. While its architectural value is indisputable, it cannot be visited, it has no function at the moment. A long series of domestic and international examples show that it has lost its function, but it is valuable for a building to find new tasks for the benefit or pleasure of the community, just think of the cultural, commercial or administrative exploitation of railway stations in Western European cities. That is why the management of Újpest is thinking about this, and this is the opportunity that he wants to take advantage of. I know that there is agreement on this, and that has been dealt with by the municipalities before, but perhaps now is the time to make sure that this option is not missed in the planning of the next period. A study has been launched to assess the possibilities of exploitation and the ideas related to this in the presentation of this with all kinds of new techniques. Therefore, the new management now strives in the municipality to take over this. I hope that, in the next seven-year budget cycle of the European Union, there will be a significant extension of the possibility of direct tendering for local government development support, where the district and the capital can jointly apply for the exploitation of the emblematic building of the district and the costs to cover it. Thank you very much for listening, I trust that this water tower will be renovated. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-17-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title " Horror on the Way of Death." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-239	Yeah. Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Horror on the way to death. Horror is the Horror Squadron, and death is the M4. And this is just an opportunity with this speech to draw attention to what horror caravans mean or what they represent. Now that my fellow Members have gone home, it is safe to talk about it, so it is safe to say, borrowed from advertising. But it is not only because they have gone home, but also because they are concerned about them, because my fellow Members are certainly on their way home. Unfortunately, the horror caravans do not spare the country: through M1, via M5, through road 4 or M3, in virtually all directions; typically from Western Europe, loaded with Western European import cars, they take used vehicles to Eastern Europe and, above all, Romania, Bulgaria and Moldavia. They are called horror caravans - I think many of the viewers of the video, but they have seen them, too - which are typically vans, so loaded, crossing the rules allowed for total weight, that they either load more cars on their own, on the platform, or, by the way - and combine them - carry trailers, and cross the rules both in length and weight. And most importantly, they try to bypass the Hungarian rules and tolls by paying the lowest possible toll or tolls. [[19.00]] This alone is not enough, the problem is even bigger, as often the fixing of these vehicles is such that they cause accidents more than once. Perhaps we all remember when a part of one of these horror caravans was crashed into an ambulance, and in the last case - although there was no accident - this was the other case - they turned down a horror caravan where one of the vans was towed, not with a tow rope, but with a simple recording cable, a spanifer, the other caravan, which, by the way, was also hauling tow. So, technically, they did a life-threatening operation at the same time, and they didn't. They were running 80-90, but well above the speed limit. We see that the scale of the problem is quite serious. According to known data, on average, more than a hundred horror caravans, i.e. irregular vehicle combinations, are seized on the roads every month. These vehicles are typically lighter than 3.5 tonnes of total weight, so the maximum fine applied to them is usually 150 thousand HUF as an on-the-spot fine. It was perhaps bigger than that, and it was also on the Internet, when one of the unspeakable motorists published it, and it was wrong that the Hungarian authorities punished them for HUF 2 million. But again, what has already been mentioned today, we can say of the hemp case that the two drivers were sentenced to a total fine of HUF 250,000, or received such a fine on the spot. The fact that a hundred such trains are shut down each month clearly shows that the imposition of fines would not stop these cases, but essentially ignore these fines, and that everything continues in its own right. So here it must be said that this can be caught in several ways, on the one hand, by legislative amendment. It is absolutely necessary to think about it, and Jobbik is a partner in this, how to tighten those penalties, whether in connection with the on-the-spot fines imposed, or even by examining the criminal code, according to which these acts will not only be considered an offence but a crime, and, yes, it should be said that, where appropriate, imprisonment against these drivers could be granted. Let me tell you a personal story. I was a defense attorney in a case where a completely irregular trafficker, but not a horror train, took three other passengers to their deaths outside Karcag because he was irresponsible, because he went quickly and didn't even follow the rules and requests that other passengers asked him for. The only way to stop these cases is to impose the strictest punishment and place the strictest punishment in the prospect. And the other is attention. In any case, the authorities should, at the border, either at the M1 or at any border crossing, filter through the traffic monitoring system the vehicles that travel like this and act against them as soon as possible, because please, fellow Members, it is not possible to catch someone hundreds of kilometres from the Hungarian-Austrian border, for example, in Kenderes or even almost before the exit, whether in the environment of Matthewszalka or, say, in the constituency of our fellow Member, István Happy. These cases should be eliminated at their roots, both with strict penalties and with the strictest action and follow-up at the border; Jobbik will be a partner in this. We are asking, and we will also propose in Parliament, that we act as soon as possible so that the horror caravans can be stopped as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-17-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member István Apáti also applied for a post-the-meeting speech, and an independent Member:, Let us remember Governor Miklós Horthy. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-17-241	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the day of his election as Governor Miklós Horthy, on the day of his election, the Hungarian Movement plans to organize a white horse march on 1 March 2020. The venue of the event is XI. Szent Gellért Square in the district, and on 1 March we will begin our event at 4:30 p.m., which, free of any bias, exaggeration or self-satisfaction, is entitled to be called the host of the national cooperation, since this prestigious and dignified event will be attended by our country outside the Movement, will be represented and represented, if you like, by the Horthy Miklós Society, the Trianon Society, the MIÉP, the Independent Small Farmers' Party, the Bitter Army, the Sixty-four Vármegye Youth Movement and the National Law Protection Service. To put it mildly, we find it odd, we find it strange, but I think it will increase the stakes of the event and increase its importance that the MiHazan Movement is the only party to cherish the memory of the governor and to commemorate the important anniversary of the governor. Ladies and gentlemen, Would we have thought, 100 years, 90 years, 80 years ago, that when the 100th anniversary of the entrance to Budapest came, the 100th anniversary last November was the 100th anniversary, or the 100th anniversary of Miklós Horthy's election to Governor, which will take place in a few days, then there will be only one political party in Hungary that will commemorate this, or remind everyone of the statesman who actually owes us a great deal? We can say without exaggeration that he saved Hungary during the most difficult period in Hungarian history, because he led this country - in fact, at a time when our greatest blow, the Trianon tragedy, occurred. Then there was a global economic crisis in the middle of his period of governor, and then World War II. Hungary has never been led by a statesman under such difficult circumstances. We are aware that his person is causing heated disputes, overexcited by emotions, passions. The Hungarian Movement is also ahead of these debates, and we would be very pleased to have these debates in conflict with historical and political arguments. We are very confident that, unlike November 16, 2019, extreme liberal protestors on the far left will not disturb the event, since the extreme nature of these people is more dangerous to their ignorance, stupidity and unpreparedness. The responsibility of the organisations that set them on fire, hire them, and, where appropriate, pay them in order to appear and disrupt the otherwise dignified and law-abiding event. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to draw your attention to and mention the list of speakers, to mention who will be speaking at this event, again: from 1 March at 16.30 a.m. on St. Gellért Square. I would immediately mention the retired Reformed Camp Bishop Tamás Csuka and Brigadier General Ferenc György, the parish priest of Ipolybalog, Ferenc Zetényi Csukás, honorary president of the Horthy Miklós Society. And I must mention it with special respect: a very pleasant disappointment, it is a great pleasure for us that the chairman of the Horthy Miklós Society, Hegedűs Loránt, will not only honor him, but will be speaking at this great national army event. The independent mayor of Kereki will be present. He should be pointed out that it is László Csicsai, because Kereki is the only settlement where a statue of Horthy was erected in the public area. In addition to the supposedly high-quality speeches at this event, we will, of course, propose the establishment of a Horthy Horse Sculpture in Budapest, a plaster sample of a Horthy breast sculpture or a copy of the Holy Crown. Everyone is welcome, we invite you to this event with great respect. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-02-17-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 20 February. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
