u2020-10-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 4th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, on behalf of the Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Dialogue, to thank health workers and everyone involved in the fight against the epidemic here in the second wave. They're doing superhuman work, so I should thank them. The European citizens' initiative on basic income is progressing well. The Dialogue guarantees that we will collect the necessary number of signatures in our country as well. The Dialogue supports this citizens' initiative because it wants to live in a happier country, and we know from the wiser of the country, Ferenc Deák, that it is not the happy country where the richest people are, but where the least poor people are. So please everyone who wants to live in a happy country to support this initiative by signing it. However, the basic proposal for a Dialogue provides support not only for the poor and the unemployed, but also for those who live on wages and salaries. Let me give you three examples of this. A married couple, Péter's shopkeeper, with HUF 410 thousand gross, and Edit's teacher, with HUF 293 thousand gross, will now receive HUF 487 700 net with one child. According to our basic income proposal, this amount would increase to HUF 558 060 net, with HUF 70,000 per month. Judit is a qualified nurse, single mother with two children, currently with a net HUF 206 648. According to our basic income proposal, this amount would increase to HUF 306 150. Aunt Ildi is retired, unfortunately with a very low pension of HUF 68 200. This would rise to HUF 100,000, according to our basic income proposal. Anyone can go up to the basic yovdezény.hu site and enter their salary into the calculator. I have some bad news for the Members who are sitting here: they wouldn't raise their salary by a penny, but those who look at us would have a better salary for seven out of ten people, and they would be better off with the basic income. Fidesz, on the other hand, opposes Peter, Edit, Judi, and Aunt Ildi getting more money. Soon, a secretary of state will stand up and tell you not to give money to people who don't want to work. But I suggest that we do not underestimate the Hungarian people so much, they do want to work, and they do not want to live for nothing, and they do not want to live every month. And there is something else the Hungarian people want: safety of life; that is what the basic income proposal of the Dialogue provides for them. Fidesz also claims that the basic income does not encourage work, keeps people away from the labour market, and sets the Finnish example for this. It is very wrong, the Finnish basic income experiment has not been properly studied. The Finnish basic income experiment shows that there is no less willingness to work. Fidesz also claims that the basic income has not worked anywhere in the EU, that it has not been introduced anywhere, while in Italy a basic income allocation of EUR 780, in Spain between EUR 400 and EUR 1000, was introduced before the crisis; this is very popular during the crisis, and it is also good for the economy to not stop. Fidesz also claims that we would finance the basic income through credit and tax increases, while the Dialogue proposal would only mean a tax increase for Lőrinc Mészáros, and the rest would be covered by the elimination of wasteful expenditure and by redeployment. Now I don't know what argument they're going to put up against the basic income, but I'm looking forward to it. It is certain that the policy that the people of power have been pursuing over the past ten years, which was to help only the wealthy, and those in need, to get well as they can, to work where they can, must be closed with the power of the people in 2022, because we want a happy country. It is not the happy country where the rich are most people, but where the least poor people are wealth. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-10-05-2	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. [[13.10]]
u2020-10-05-3	Thank you, Mr. President. What I think is important is that we are talking here in this House about how to increase the number of jobs and how to raise wages. In this regard, the government has had a programme for ten years, and this programme has already demonstrated its functionality. Look, honourable Member, the figures: unemployment has been reduced from 12 to 4 percent, and wages have also increased significantly, and it is true, even though we know where to raise them. But the minimum wage, if I look at a group of the smallest earners, has also increased significantly. This policy has been underpinned by various measures: tax cuts or the setting-up of family subsidies. If I look at the current situation, the current measures, it is also important in the epidemiological situation that we not only keep jobs but also create new ones. This is why the government has decided on wage support for jobs, creating jobs; that is why it has launched investment aid; that is why it has decided on preferential loans. And by the way, the issue of livelihood is also the extension of the moratorium. It is also known to you that the moratorium originally planned until 31 December will be extended by the government to certain social groups, including pensioners, public workers, job seekers and families raising children. This represents substantial support for over a million people. The goal is not only to create jobs that the virus has destroyed, but also to create new ones. As far as the basic income is concerned, we have had this debate several times, so let me draw your attention to the fact that we have a problem with the principle. So what you're proposing is a turnback to the past from the point of view of thinking in a system that focuses on aid, not on work. That's the thing. If you refer to the Finnish example, it is interesting to say that the numbers have not decreased. But it didn't even increase employment. So it cost virtually a lot of taxpayers' money, billions of dollars, but it didn't improve the situation at all, but the taxpayers there had to throw that money together; they didn't back off in vain. And when you set the Spanish example, please add where the Spanish government debt and unemployment stand and state that this would be a step forward in any way. But the fact is, beyond the principle debate, there is one more talkative thing that says a lot about this. You uploaded a video about the basic income, and this video is very good at showing the extent to which the basic income could be an opportunity, according to you. I quote the option you have given me, so if I were to introduce the basic income, what would it be possible to choose from, what to spend it on:, I would move into the Island, it would be an option;, I wouldn't work any more, it would be an option;, I would move in with my girlfriend or boyfriend, or with my girlfriend and boyfriend, it would be your option;, it wouldn't be your option;, I wouldn't ditch all the time;, I would finish my tattoo, so;, I would buy a PS4. I'd like to move past the Kalinkan, so you think it's also an opportunity to make a difference in drinking habits; and I'd like to arrange the biggest party in the universe. Since, in your view, we do not think, but you believe, that these opportunities are the result of the basic income, this means that you know very well that this solution does not encourage work and, in addition, it would cost a lot of money. So the next time you speak on this subject, I would like to ask you to add which social groups would take the money to introduce the basic income, because we know very well that you are thinking of multi-key taxes, which means you would bring back the period when you had to tax up to 36 percent. We don't want to go back to the past. I'm asking you not to. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-4	Now it's time for Congressman Péter Ungár, on behalf of the LMP.
u2020-10-05-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government has just tabled a proposal that represents a very good and long-awaited wage increase for doctors. It is very good that this has happened, and I think it is important here to thank both health and social and other workers for their work on the second wave of the coronal virus. At the same time, it is incomprehensible that those working in the social sector are completely invisible to the government. The 95 thousand Hungarian people working in the social sector, who, even according to Attila Fülöp, was able to protect the residents of the institutions because of his own hard work, were left out of the HUF 500,000 wage supplement first and then left out of this salary supplement and the wage increase. The fact is that at present the social sector's wage situation is tragic and threatens to cause social disaster. There is a very telling example of this: when I asked the Ministry of Human Resources about the shortage of labour in the social institution in Brasoványe, the general answer was that the number of people working there met the legal conditions. On the other hand, the TASZ sued the data that, rather than meeting the legal requirements, there was a 38 per cent shortage of labour; and this 38 per cent lack of labour meant that very often during the night shift the carers were alone in an institution. This case shows that you in the Ministry of Human Resources in District V have no idea how many social workers there are each day alone on the night shift; how many people are still doing pre-retirement and have to do forced, physically incriminating work, so that they often have to go to voluntary quarantine because of the epidemic, so that they cannot resolve isolation within the institution. And they do all this after 39 years of working time and close to retirement, with a higher education, for a net HUF 178 thousand. This is the Hungarian reality you are not interested in. And the Rétvár Bence generator will stand up. And you're gonna tell me that the wages have risen by 110 percent, but the thing is, this 110 percent isn't true. If you look at the figure that, at the beginning of their administration, the average wage in the national economy ranged from 70 to 80 per cent, it went around 60 per cent by 2010, it went to 50 per cent in 2013, and now 47 per cent of the average wage in the national economy is the average wage in the national economy. This means that people who do one of the most important jobs earn less than average wages. The fact that you don't know what's going on in this sector also shows that Minister Kásler didn't know, so he wasn't aware of the fact that the state owned and the state oversees nursing homes. If a opposition politician had made such a mistake in his own territory, we would have heard nothing from Fidesz since then but how inadequate he is. [[13.20]] Minister Kásler is responsible for the social sector without being aware of the most fundamental facts. I'm moving on. In the social sector, the day of social work, which they received as a public holiday, will be November 12. This is the last moment when this sector will accept that they are finally being dealt with. The first thing that was, by the way, quite rightly closed and a visitation ban was in the social sphere in residential, disabled and elderly homes, yet those who first, the most acutely dealt with the epidemic, are those whom they simply refuse to deal with. The separation of the health pay sign and the social pay sign is also a huge problem, because when you talk to institutional leaders, you tell them that almost everyone is at a retirement age, and they cannot hire new caregivers because healthcare is taking them away in an internal wage competition. This means that not only will there be a 38 percent shortage of workers, but there will be a 40-50 percent shortage of workers in the next 5-6 years. Overall, if these people stopped working tomorrow, they would have a reason, because there is such a wage situation, the whole country would stop. They couldn't talk about GDP growth, the primary labour market wouldn't work, and someone else should take care of this. The Hungarian society is getting old, and their work will be needed more and more. It is time to acknowledge once, after ten years, that the social sector exists in Hungary.
u2020-10-05-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-10-05-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I am pleased that we have finally heard voices of appreciation from the Ungár generator from the opposition to quote you, honourable Member, on the health pay increase. Indeed, this is a step in wage increases that are usually taken by right-wing governments and not by left-wing governments, as you know, Mr honourable Member, in the social sphere there is always austerity during left-wing governance, and progress can also be made in this sector during right-wing governments. You lacked the fact that the average salary of those working in the social sphere has more than doubled during our administration, while not saying a word about the fact that the people with whom you are running every week in the various interim elections started together in the last municipal elections, how they took a month's wages from those working in the social sphere. You haven't said a word about this since you and your new allies left for the election. You do not say a word, honourable Member, that when the left was governed, you said that we do not necessarily need public care, but that our neighbours and relatives should provide care to people who are sick or in need. He doesn't mention that the norm was not increased, but reduced, some were done by HUF 30,000, some by HUF 100,000, depending on the average norm or high standard. This was what the left did in Hungary when he governed: he took from the most deprived. In the multi-company companies, in the utility companies, who could set the price of gas and electricity, there was no restriction. There was doubles and triples in the price of electricity and gas to keep the profits there. But in the social sphere, where the most deprived were involved, they took a month's wages, reduced the high standard, reduced the average norm, and even said that relatives and friends would solve it then. That was the difference between then's government and now's. It is natural for everyone to want 120, 140 and 160 per cent instead of a 100 per cent wage increase, but this is possible under right-wing governance, not under left-wing governance. If you look at how, let's say, in the context of domestic assistance, where we have doubled the normative support for this from HUF 145 thousand to HUF 330 thousand, how could the number of people providing it grow from 75 thousand to nearly 90 thousand. We can provide this with more money for more people. The higher amount also means that there are several employees. This social benefit, when we took over government, was carried out by 5764 employees, now 12 397. The number of employees increased, the number of beneficiaries increased and the level of funding increased. This could have been done because the resources were growing. You are aware of the wage increases: as of 1 January 2014, a social sector supplement, a supplement in 15 and a combined social sector bonus was introduced in 2016. These measures, however, increased the wage envelopes by ten or more billion forints each year. As of 2018, there was a health supplement, and this year did not go without a wage increase in the social sphere.This year, too, there was a 14 percent wage increase. This is how we can say that on average we have doubled the wages of social workers. It is indeed a work that many people are trying to do here, which is why we have launched ejection programmes, so that they do not care for and care for those who need it and whose care can no longer be done in family conditions, and we need higher professional caregivers. That is why we have launched this project, and, of course, the European Union is also attacking this funding from Brussels, why we are using EU funds to do so, so that we can provide these people not in large, phalanster-like institutions, but in personal, family-like circumstances. So this has been important to us in recent years. There's been some hard times. Obviously, this year is not the most economically advantageous year in Europe and worldwide, as it is hard for all countries to experience a decline in economic life due to the coronal virus epidemic, but regardless of this, the government has said that there may be a decline in almost every economy in the world, perhaps it will not find a country around the world where there is no reduction in the total national product, but we will nevertheless ensure this 14 percent increase in wages for those working in the social sphere this year. And I would just like to make a brief comment on your reference to the day of social work. If you consider this to be so important, honourable Member, it would have been good to vote here in Parliament to introduce this, but unfortunately the vote on the left did not come to the introduction of the day of social work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-8	I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, on behalf of DK.
u2020-10-05-9	Dear House, Government Congresswoman Ladies and Gentlemen! I have some bad news for you. Bad news that doesn't show up on private jets, helicopters and luxury yachts. I'm sorry to tell you this, but there is a crisis in Hungary, an economic crisis. The fact that you only helped their loyal minions and generally didn't want or can't handle this crisis has very serious consequences for Hungarians. We know the communication panels. I know: Soros, Brussels, opposition. But if they tried to reconnect with reality, they would see a multitude of Hungarians who lost their jobs or worked for much less wages, or they would see people who received absolutely no help from the Hungarian state. I suggest you study the comments of your own government's Facebook page. If they met reality, they would notice that a kilo of potatoes is only 100 forints in Fidesz' campaign in Tiszaújváros, because they would have to go to a shop instead of 250-300 forints. Then they'd see it, and I saw it with my own eyes, as the elders were choosing their recipes with trembling hands at the pharmacy, wondering which medicine they were going to be able to afford. And then you will also see how many entrepreneurs have been ruined, and not far from here, in the downtown of Budapest, how many publishing shops have become recently. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Let's not be subtle. Since it's cold, you come here to warm up and legitimize the theft. And despite the bottomless wallet of the European Union, they have made a billionaire, making a gasman the richest man in the country. Of course, the smaller and wider Orbán family became a billionaire, a hotel, a winery, a port, a yacht club, a golf club and a stadium at the end of the garden. But, of course, that's what you got. Right, Mr. Happy Congressman? Isn't that right, Congressman Simonka? Unfortunately, we can't ask Mr ex-Mengyi, because he's warming up somewhere else, or he's cooling off. To be honest, if I were to list everyone on your benches and friends, mates, relatives who, with the consent of the don, were involved in the joint, I'd be talking until tomorrow morning. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, pro-government congressmen? I exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. Well, you've been practicing for your own benefit. You guys are quite simply swearing. Of course, they achieved their goal, metaphorically even the roof was stolen from above the head of the country. Now it's raining, the sky's thundering, and the sky's about to fall. And you're standing there, and you don't even know what you're doing. In recent years, they have spent twice as much money on football as I would add on higher education, completely without success, and now they wonder that there is a shortage of professionals. Hungarian health care has been instigated, and they are surprised that there are no health workers. [[13.30]] You have raised party loyalty in place of talent and diligence, and now you are surprised that people are leaving Hungary. And since your prime minister has been at war for the past ten years and has been making war plans, they believe that if ex-soldiers are deployed, they will be more artistically recognized by individuals who have been left out of mediocrity, loyal to Fidesz, both at home and abroad. I'd like to tell you that there won't be. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, on the pro-government side, I understand that you do not have time to deal with these problems, because there are very different problems on your shoulders. For example, to ruin oysters if they do not eat on the yacht, but to take them home on the private plane; to go up the luxurious field to the luxury castle renovated with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, or to buy another, a hobby trailer; or to return the private plane from Mallorca, so that it can still be used to go to the BL match in the evening. But, ladies and gentlemen, reality is knocking. You are unable to handle the economic crisis affecting Hungarians, and you are unable because you have neither the intention nor the ability. Your purpose and ability are limited to one thing: to the detriment of others, to the immoral enrichment. You've been stealing even during the plague. You are not brave, you are group, premeditated, and you are deceived by others, who have always been more important to their own gain than the country and the Hungarian people. And this is the case even if it is placed in front of all things that it is a national and Christian. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-05-10	I'll give the floor to Csaba Dömötör as a response to pre-scheduled abuse, so please. Try to answer it as if you had heard a pre-meeting comment. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It was!]]
u2020-10-05-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am trying to respond to this wide-ranging wording, so let's put it this way. Well, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, perhaps you were just here, we listed it, because only in the last few months, how many decisions have been made: wage subsidies, preferential loans for entrepreneurs. I may not have mentioned one thing, the credit moratorium, which I would like to mention specifically because you have a huge responsibility for the Hungarian families being indebted during the previous period, namely in foreign exchange loans. So, after you've put foreign exchange credit in the country's neck, the last thing we want to do is accept this kind of education. Food price. If you consider this important, and you have previously called for a reduction in food VAT, why did you not support it when you could otherwise have supported it here in the House? Why not? What a duplicity! It's a question of billionaires. Would you please look at how many hundreds of millions your boss is taking out of his companies as dividends, and how he's coming from a confiscated villa, I'm not saying that he's going to the National Assembly every day because he can either get here or he can't, or he can't come in or he can't. So if someone's been working here in this House and rarely visits you, I'd be looking in your benches, and I'd be looking for them because they often advertise boycotts. After that, they're gonna say... In the matter of party loyalty, after a quiz master is taken up by a member of the BKV Vehicle Repair Supervisory Board to raise the issue of party loyalty at all, it is quite a smiley, honourable Member. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Allow me to devote another part of my speech, as you have mentioned in health care, to false news about health, which you often spread. For example, last week in connection with the Kiskunhalas epidemic hospital, it was claimed that it was not prepared, there was no specialist, even said that there was no heat. On the other hand, the reality is that on 1 October he started his operation, there are professionals, and the heating is also solved. Then let's take a look at the testing, because there's a lot of false news about it too. Among other things, they say that they have switched to mass and free testing in other countries. And if you try to deny it, then watch the video of Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Klara Dobrev!]] On the other hand, the reality is that in most European countries, like us, symptoms are tested for free, and if someone has no symptoms, the vast majority of countries have to pay for the test. We're starting to get the feeling that the left-wing fake news department is so big that another floor could be arranged for him, however much false news comes, they always fail the fake news test. And after that, and I am referring not only to your claims about health, but also to your claims about the economy, and it is no exaggeration to say that in this second wave we cannot expect any help from the opposition parties, and I am not speaking here on behalf of the ruling parties, but the fact is that the whole country cannot count on any help. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'll help you.]] In the spring, you referred to the fact that you cannot help us because of the extraordinary legal order. There's no special legal order now, but they're not helping. That's when it's decided who can and can't be expected in difficult times, and unfortunately, you can't. Unfortunately, it has a sad tradition over there. I would also like to briefly talk about health wage increases, because you mentioned something about health. As is known, the government has recently agreed with the Medical Chamber, so medical wages in Hungary can practically double. At the same time, in contrast to any statement to the contrary, nursing wages are also increasing, and decisions have already been made in this regard. I was struck by your aforementioned sentence, and one of their weekend sentences, saying that healthcare workers have been abandoned in Hungary for ten years. Well, do you know what it means, honourable Member, to leave them alone? It's when you put tens of thousands on the street when you shut down hospitals. Compared to your claim, there are several doctors working in Hungary today, and if I look at wages, the wages of doctors have increased by 2.5 times during the current administration, and this is what the double announced is about. This also means that we are talking about the largest medical wage increase programme in recent decades. Now, we don't expect you to stand a wall of ornaments, but the truth is, if you don't deny the whole thing and spread false news, we'll settle for it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-12	Now it's time for the group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth.
u2020-10-05-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Commission published last week's assessment of the rule of law in the Member States. The criticisms of the Fidesz government did not surprise us, yet the Fidesz began to make strong accusations and slashes. They attacked the rule of law requirements and wanted to cancel Věra Jourova, the EU Commissioner for Compliance with the Rule of Law. You know, this hypocritical circus reminds me of the image of someone going into the store and demanding that the anti-theft gates be removed. [[It's a rare blur.]] Everyone is thinking, and rightly so, that they want to steal, because if they weren't, then why would alarm systems interfere? The same is true when Fidesz objects to the application of the rule of law criteria. That's exactly the protest you're going to bring down, which is a protest to tell us that they're actually corrupt, anti-democratic, and grooming. Ladies and gentlemen, You say that liberal democracy has been exceeded by illiberal democracy, and you believe that it is also a rule of law, because the laws rule. However, the rule of law in your view means that a small minority, in this case the interests of the Fidesz elite, are protected only by the law. Your laws are designed to protect the interests of power. You make laws to legalize your own power, your own thefts, your abuses, your sins. On the other hand, we believe in social democracy, represented by the Hungarian Socialist Party, and want to introduce it after a successful change of government. In social democracy, the law protects people's interests against power. In our understanding, we're talking about a rule of law where, if you've lost your job, your government dependent on your taxes will help you survive. Where the police can't take you because of a Facebook entry criticizing the government. Where independent newspapers and radios are not removed; where universities do not lose their autonomy; where non-subsidiaries are raised from your children. Where the Labour Code does not make workers vulnerable. Where no one in the election has to take a picture of his ballot. Let's just say that Fidesz protects its authoritarian system and builds a parallel reality, a parallel world. The little is said to be enough, the none is said to be, and the theft is said to be government. However, this cannot continue indefinitely. The screen of lies can never hide the whole truth. [[13.40]] You are afraid of all external investigations, such as the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as devils of incense smoke. You created the illiberal state so that you could steal freely within the borders of Hungary. That's why the Attorney General is fidesz, so the public media is fidesz, so the Constitutional Court is fidesz, so everyone who can control the government is fidesz. Anyone who calls for the rule of law in Hungary will be in jeopardy of your power based on theft. That is why the EU Commissioner for the Rule of Law report is now being hailed. Fidesz and Viktor Orbán, in fear of the rule of law investigation, pretend that Hungary has been attacked and violated, although there is no such thing. You're only afraid for your prey that's been bitten in ten years. It's the simple truth. The Fidesz government is the same as a thief with a pocket full of stolen items, and he wants to have the anti-theft gates removed. Ladies and gentlemen, We must say that the republic that we have now is only in the form of a republic, a formal republic, which is, in fact, an authoritarian system that we must eliminate. Therefore, for the Hungarian Socialist Party, this also means that a real fight for freedom must be conducted, and I trust that we will not be alone in this fight of freedom. The reconstruction of democracy, the division of power, freedoms, social rights and the rule of law cannot be discussed. Let's start for our future together, Hungary!
u2020-10-05-14	Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-10-05-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I have some bad news for you, and there will be fewer and fewer of you in this fight, because just before the last presidential election, a good part of the membership has been excluded so that you and your partner can win the presidential election. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] It's a little interesting that you're going to talk about the rule of law issues when you can question the phenomena that exist within your own organisation. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] But to get to the point of what he had to say: the rule of law report. Read the Lisbon Treaty, show me the pass that the Commission has the power, such as the Court of Luxembourg, to qualify from a legal point of view any legislation or measure of a Member State. I'm gonna need you to send this to me. In practice, we are dealing with a blackmail instrument where we are talking about this Commission's rule of law report, where matters that have not been dealt with by law, legal frameworks, state of law, are reflected in political reports and legal robes, which have been the case since 2010. Since 2010, since the European Commission ruled by the Balliberian majority, the European Union Parliament has virtually failed to accept that we have been able to come out of the infringement procedure in this country, that we have been able to involve multinational companies in public burden-sharing by means of special taxes, that we have been able to protect the most vulnerable layers, which, by the way, should be protected by the left at times and not subject to price increases, and that we have managed to correct the legal framework that makes it believable that Hungary can defend its borders today against the migrant invasion, which is also required by the Schengen Treaty. We were practically part of a game where we followed the rules and played everyone else behind our backs, partly to instigate you, although I don't appreciate your role too much because your performance is seen here in the first place. But there is, in practice, such international pressure, which is partly represented by the liberal or left-wing ideology represented by an international network through the Open Society Foundations, the role of which, in terms of the rule of law, should indeed be examined as an American billionaire climbing into the offices of European Commissioners; in practice, its organisations here receive from the Commission the sources of funding from which they produce with their well-paid mercenaries the background materials they submit to the Commission for a report on the rule of law. Then this will appear in an official form, and apart from the fact that Hungary has given the right answers to them, which they refuse to respond to, and they are practically screaming like a choir in this story, where the Vice-President of the EP recently allowed himself to starve Hungary and Poland, which I say is a little strange from a German's mouth when he wants to starve Poles. I think that, after such a statement, a German Member should normally resign, regardless of whether the EP is Vice-President and Social Democrat or not, and the majority behind it. So these are untenable, unrated things. And you are riding on them here, in Hungary, trying to take this rule of law issue. However, if we look at the other Member States, although it is not up to us to point out the various anomalies in the other Member States, we have now, unfortunately, come to the point that, after ten years, we are forced to do so, too, that friends of the rule of law, let us say, how they behave and why we do not have this in the reports. Last time: a Slovak citizen died years ago as a result of a brutal police measure in Belgium, and the case was investigated poorly, not in the report. By the way, the police chief who conducted this investigation at the time is now the head of Europol. But I could continue the line of cases that will be brought up in the rule of law report, which we closed before, say, 14 in discussions with the Commission. I was just quoting you the other day, it's like recalling Commissioner Jourová that in 2006 she was arrested at Prague airport on corruption charges, and she was only released because of the secret wiretap that the D.A. filed, according to the court, was insufficient. Or we could say the case of the Belgian Commissioner, who was also prosecuted for corruption charges, and then, during his hearing with the Commissioner, was dropped and quickly appointed. Who are they if they're not caught? Who are these people who don't say what they're expected to say, who are killed by the left-wing press at any time in five minutes, impossible, and basically have to say what you expect them to say? Shame on you! Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-16	Now it's time for Jobbik's representative, Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2020-10-05-17	Mr President, Dear House, Winter is coming, this country is marching towards a social and social cataclysm situation, perhaps with an eviction of over 10,000 in recent decades, leaving an astonishingly wide crowd in poverty on the side of the road. We see that instead of dealing with this situation in the middle of an emergency crisis in an emergency, the government is playing a Game of Thrones. He tries to make each other jump on the various imaginary empires: capitals for the rurals, young for the elderly and vice versa, playing social groups against each other, maintaining war psychosis and war rhetoric. On the other hand, there is also a parallel to the battle of Thrones, if you look at the state-run organizations, there is a Lannister everywhere, blond curls dancing out of the curtains and blue eyes flashing. There's a fidesz everywhere. If we look at the State Audit Office, if we look at the area of the Attorney General, if we look at the Media Authority or even the heads of public media, interestingly, you're everywhere. And there's still the set, there's still the stage: democracy is being played, only in reality it doesn't filter through. I don't know which Secretary of State is going to answer me, so they're boxing him now, I see, among themselves. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] My first question will be that you brought a package, a paper, a document, an apology letter, because here you are constantly lying in Parliament about the Borsod 6 decisive election, with our candidate, my community. But last week, they burned as much as they did, because one of the mainstream elements of the Fidesz Lying Factory didn't even dare come to the courthouse where they suffered a huge defeat. The representative of the Hungarian Nation did not even appear in the courtroom where the Fidesz lie factory was so upset that all their lies against László Bíró failed. The same lies, Mr Secretary of State, that you are blaring in this Chamber, are literally the same, and all your more lies will be covered in the same way. Not only did the leaders and representatives of the fidesz medium dare not go to this trial, but your sent media workers didn't show up at my press conference that day, even though they wouldn't miss an opportunity to ask questions intended to be humiliating by launching the lie tsunami. Winter is coming, while a social and social cataclysm situation is approaching, evictions are brewing. We invite you to help restore illegal events to the ground of law. You're not coming. The shadow of luxury yachts does not see a flood of real people's real problems. Let as a government called family-friendly, the amazing social misery against which every honest patriot should raise his voice. In the meantime, we see that in the campaign in Tiszaújváros they are not focusing on the construction, they are not trying to convince the voters that your candidate may be more suitable, more talented, better, but, in addition to the continued eavesdropping of political opponents and running a lie factory, a reduced potato and food sale will be held under the Fidesz logo. This is your Hungary, # pity. [[13.50]] A confession, yes, about the fact that after ten years of government, if you want to win an individual mandate, you're going to have to organize a reduced potato price under the patronage. To add, people in Borsodi are not buying this. The event took place with so little interest that even the candidate and the Fidesz potentates sent there did not pay their respects at this event; at least they did not appear during the Italian tricolor. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] It's more than I've seen in the last few days. But I have to tell you, winter is still coming. In contrast to the social, social cataclysm situation, it would be our duty to act together with a national minimum; with an eviction moratorium, that László Bíró, after winning this interim, should not go to evictions, but to represent the people of Borsod-abaúj-Zemplén. Something should be done with the humiliatingly low wage level, since, under your administration, the average salary of the Borsodi man is still 30-50 thousand forints lower than that of a fellow countryman in Budapest or West Hungary, possibly in the same position and in the same company. Something should also be done by the fact that, in the meantime, even the minimum wage of an eastern country has passed Hungarian, and there are only two lower figures across the European Union. Something needs to be done about housing and rent prices with an extremely difficult situation, because in the middle of a housing cataclysm, you are once again doing nothing on this issue. As weak people, they also released the HUF exchange rate along a conscious strategy, serving your exporting multi-company friends, throwing a thousand-billion-dollar special tax into the neck of Hungarian citizens only with the weak forint. Once again, I would like to emphasise that we should take action against these, with winter coming up, but with two thirds of it, we can finally move towards spring. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-05-18	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, again.
u2020-10-05-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wasn't prepared with Throne War references, so excuse me, but I looked into it before the election because I suspected you'd bring up the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county data, also because I thought you'd make such statements. In Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, the employment rate rose from 42% to 56 percent, the unemployment rate from 17.7 percent, so compared to the time your new allies governed, it fell to 4.5 percent, gross average earnings increased by 76 percent. However, we know very well that there are still a lot of additional increases to be made. Investments increased from 184 billion to 552 billion. By the way, there were 1552 doctors in the county, today there are 1874 doctors working. And there's one more important thing you didn't mention, but I think it's important, and this is the number of registered crimes: 27,700 to 10,800, which is about 60 percent reduction. Perhaps you agree that improving public security is a priority. When they say it's nothing, I can tell you that you've learned the techniques of autumn very well, they've been like this too. And as for the lucky election, it is worth summing up the most important experiences when the campaign is over and finished. There are at least three such experiences. First of all, you're going to name a candidate on the left who you've been protesting against for weeks. Secondly, Jobbik has finally joined forces with those against whom he has previously defined himself. And number three, the Jobbik that keeps referring to people, like you did, leaves them on the side of the road when it comes to that. We cannot go without saying that the left has thrown all the remaining principles of the pact that we have just concluded into the trash. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the left still here, your boss once said, referring to Jobbik, that there is a pair of Nazi-character anti-Semitic texts, simply: Nazi, anti-Semitic party he said so. How do they feel when they're lining up behind an intense anti-Semitic candidate? Let me ask you, do you think it's okay? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] The judapest? Do you think the term lice slide fits? Is that okay with you? ! Because if you line up behind a candidate like that, that means it's okay for you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Remember when they once said that only hell is lower than Ferenc Gyurcsány? Remember that? Then why are you guys grabbing a political pitchfork? They're working with him. Not once, not twice, but permanently. And it's not even a political pact anymore, it's a straight-up marriage. You're welcome to go to the tiny villa after this. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And I would feel free to consider this union the internal affairs of several parties (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks). ), but the cooperative scandal is no longer a matter of the two parties. As is known, the right-wing candidate on the left did not pay his employees, even though he had already received 50 million grants for job creation... (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. )
u2020-10-05-20	Calm down, gentlemen, calm down, calm down. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2020-10-05-21	He claims the right-wing candidate on the left was that when he passed on the company, everything was fine, but the truth shows otherwise. You may have been misinformed, but if you look at the news, then [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] You can easily conclude that what you're saying is not true, you can't blame responsibility on anyone else. And instead of clearing the matter, you're listening, denying and insulting the questioners, which I think a lot of people in Borsodi are asking. Because the point of the matter is that he could be entrusted with representing the Borsodians to a man who left his own coworkers on the side of the road and even threatened. That's what it's about! In this Sunday's election, you can choose between two options: on one side, Zsófia Koncz, who strengthens the camp of those who want a stronger country, a successful fight against the virus, more jobs and more support for families. On the other hand, the coalition of demise and aggression, of those who throw away any principle and leave anyone behind if they can hope for a little bit of power; today, the seamstress, tomorrow, anyone else. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So this past is by no means attractive to the future, honourable Member, the decision is for the electorate this Sunday. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-22	It is now up to KDNP's group leader, Mr István Simicskó.
u2020-10-05-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, He's entering an active phase of the epidemic. We all know and see the data. In recent days, the number of diseases has increased significantly, not only in Hungary, but throughout the region. The number of daily diseases in the Czech Republic is around 3500, in Ukraine around 4600, and in Hungary has been over 1000 in recent days. The Hungarian government, the operational tribe and the Prime Minister himself have repeatedly indicated that the second wave of the epidemic has arrived, and it will be much more difficult to defend against it than it was during the first wave. The government has also predicted that there will be a great burden on Hungarian health care and that we can see the responsible work done by Hungarian health care workers, so the KDNP faction has greatly supported and supports the Hungarian government in raising to a significant extent the salaries and wages of healthcare workers, doctors. This decision has been made. Thank you very much to the health care workers for your support, your sacrifice. This shows, moreover, that the defence works, shows that Hungary is working, that the appropriate organs are fighting shoulder to shoulder, and that all of them are fighting to ensure that the control of the epidemic is successful. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to briefly speak of another location: in the meantime, what is happening in Brussels. It must be said that, while Hungary is defending itself and everyone is fighting the epidemic, while Hungary is being attacked, we are facing open political blackmail. Věra Jourová, Vice-President and Commissioner of the European Commission and Katarina Barley, Vice-President of the European Parliament on the Left, made very harsh statements and attacked Hungary, the Hungarian people. They are talking about a sick democracy in Hungary, and even the wording has come to light that Hungary needs to be starved financially. We find this outrageous, we condemn, it does not represent the values of the European Union, such statements are unacceptable. [[14.00]] The use of words is very interesting, because if we turn a little back a few days, a few years earlier, then we can see that there were similar statements in the Soros report. We must say that Våra Jourová and Katarina Barley, artists of the Brussels sorcerer's kitchen, have compiled Hungary's attack and criticism and are working on Soros's recipe book; the use of the word clearly indicates this. The European Commission's report, called the rule of law, again shows that the Soros Dictionary has been drawn up and double standards are being applied to Member States and Hungary. The report is filled with false statements, biased. And it is also peculiar and interesting, as Secretary of State Völner said, that only the Soros organisations were asked to give their views on the report. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you know what task V. Jourová performs, what responsibility he has for the European Union? Responsible for European values. European values. We have the right to ask what is the value of V. Jourová in the European Union. The man? Is a man worth something? Yeah. Human life, health? Yeah. Are nations of value? We think so. Is the diversity of European nations valuable? Yeah, it's worth it. Are strong Member States the strength of the European Union? Yeah, that's worth it, too. Christianity is also worth it, as it is the foundation of the European Union's spiritual and cultural foundation. A healthy, normal European Union can be built on this. And when the pandemic is raging, there is nothing better to do than to criticize us, attack and criticize us from the Commissioner responsible for values. He is not helping, but criticizing, attacking Hungary. I don't know exactly what planet Våra Jourová lives on to make such an attack and such statements. When the barn's on fire, the house is on fire, is the handkerchief ironed? He asks himself a question and raises this problem. The Hungarian government is committed to protecting Hungary. We believe that it is important that you continue to take this stand and continue to stand up for the protection of Hungarian interests and Hungary, for the protection of Hungarian families, and for the strengthening of the Hungarian economy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Finally, let me give you some advice, a message, and I apologize in advance for slipping over time: I would like to send a message to Våra Jourova to apply self-examination instead of double standards. And as a KDNP politician, let me recommend what Solomon has asked of God: I offer more wisdom to V. Jourova. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-24	Once again, it's Paul Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If we look back at the spring, when the epidemic occurred, and the government had to decide how to minimize the losses of this, then, we remember well, we were all here in this House when we asked the left-wing opposition to agree that the government would get the powers that would allow us to take effective, rapid, operational action as soon as possible, but at this moment they betrayed us. They did not grant this approval, and these measures were practically a week late. Thank God it didn't have any more serious consequences. But it was already possible to set up the system of operations by hospitals, health care workers or law enforcement bodies that enabled effective protection. Now, at the time of the second wave of the epidemic, we really need to ensure that it works, so there are more serious sacrifices to carry out this defense. But at least those sympathetic voices, if not for help, will not be seen on the left side, which would at least help people to accept as much as possible measures to protect and protect lives and jobs. In addition, the international hysteria that appears in the context of the rule of law report, to which they are trying to effectively disrupt our stable social relations and the legitimacy of the government that has won the elections by two thirds. So the series of measures, the economic recovery, the kind of family support system that we managed to achieve, ensured that governance could continue on a stable basis. And if you don't come home to question this, you're obviously running to your foreign policy friends. If we look at these reports, or even go into a series of infringement procedures when we meet, what is wrong with them, what is wrong with them, it is offensive to them to stop migration, it is offensive to them to the kind of tax system that ensures the livelihood of small people, it is offensive to the type of authority-priced system that keeps the overhead costs at a level. And all of this, denied, is a fairy tale of the Game of Thrones, but here there is also a battle of rule of law, which is sometimes being extended with such fantastic elements that the press is not allowed here. I would like to see in which country in Europe the government or churches or other social organisations in the press are being abused in such an invaluable tone, and how the choir of the left-wing opposition is associated with this. Technically, you have to deal with completely aired claims. And to all of this, as I have already indicated in my reply to the previous agenda, the ammunition is essentially provided by so-called civil society organisations financed by György Soros. There were twelve reporters in this section, of which practically 11 were funded by György Soros. I only mentioned the exact number for the sake of proportion. In addition, there are other NGOs, such as the Venice Commission or the National Judicial Council, but in those foreign organisations the opinion is based again on the opinion of the same foreign-funded domestic organisations. And we can also see that it is no coincidence that there is such a great struggle, for example, in the assessment of organisations financed from abroad. This is a very offensive stigma on their part, because it turns out that they are not engaged in charitable activities, such as the Maltese Charity Service, but in hard political activities, which are expected not to rule the Christian, not the conservative and not the traditional European values in this country, but the views of the Open Society Foundations from everywhere, and if they can achieve this at the cost of overthrowing the government, then they will deal primarily with this, which has been proven in the past ten years. Only the Helsinki Commission received nearly HUF 1 billion in funding from the Soros organisations, but also, as I have already mentioned, the Commission is an enthusiastic supporter of these organisations, and sometimes the UN also opens the treasury for them. So the internal financing of these organisations today is almost zero, and they operate as foreign agents, which could be legally reflected in an American legal system, but not in the European reality they create. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-26	The last among the speakers before the agenda is Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group.
u2020-10-05-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Secretary of State Völner has already mentioned the first wave of the spring epidemic, and I would like to continue where he has left off what he has to say. We are going through a difficult time, and I'm sure you can see that we have a difficult time ahead of us. The epidemic is back, but today it's so much different than spring, that maybe everyone in their own environment can tell at least one person who's been quarantined by the virus or at least. That wasn't in the spring. It is clear from this that the time ahead requires at least the same level of cooperation as in the spring. In the spring, we were well resolved by the country, by the preparedness of professionals, by the discipline of people among the world's 25 most defensive countries. And all of this was so that at that time the Hungarian left attacked the defense at every point. In the spring, left-wing parties said that they did not support anything because of the introduction of the extraordinary legal order, and then, of course, they did not even apologize for the false accusations made in connection with the extraordinary legal order. They did not support the extension of the extraordinary legal order, they did not vote for the Crown Virus Act, they spread camuvides about health workers. We remember the work of producer Lajos Korózs, who may have made some progress on this subject. They also spread false news throughout Europe in the international press about the fact that the Hungarian Parliament does not meet. There's been a rumor about the ventilators. Remember, once they said there weren't enough ventilators, and then they said there were too many ventilators. In the summer, the national consultation was also attacked, in which nearly 2 million people said their position. [[14.10]] Now, however, there is no explanation for why they continue where they left off, there is no extraordinary legal order. I do not know what you wish to refer to when you are again under attack, nor is it clear what interest you have in what we sometimes feel, and perhaps many in this country that you think the left thinks that the worse the country, the Hungarian people, the better it may be for them politically. And I think this is a very dangerous and irresponsible game, but it is in no way worthy of Members of Parliament. I would therefore like to ask you to try to behave as you have been entrusted by the electorate in the second wave of the epidemic, to stop your fake news companies; to stop the spread of rumors; and to accept the Hungarian position in the national consultation, not attack, criticize, try not to constantly make a mockery of it, but to take seriously the many Hungarian opinions you can read there, signifying that, in addition to protecting people's lives and health, the protection of jobs and the economy is also very important. The Hungarian government is working on this at the moment. We still need a great deal of cooperation. I would also like to acknowledge the left-wing criticism mentioned above, and this is not, of course, for the left-wing parties, but for the Hungarian government. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, we welcome and support the agreement concluded by the government with the Hungarian Medical Chamber. We are facing an unprecedented, historical-scale wage arrangement: on average, the wages of Hungarian doctors are doubled. And perhaps this is the best moment, just in the moment of the necessary cooperation, to resolve this, because according to researchers, mathematicians, virologists, doctors, the next 7-8 months will be very difficult for Hungarian health workers. Based on the estimates they have just published, we will be able to talk about up to 200,000 infected people, which can easily be associated with 16,000 hospitalized people. It is right that the government is prepared for this double, but back to the wage increases, we particularly welcome the fact that this agreement has just been reached. I would also like to say to you, and to conclude my speech, that all of this, the medical wage increase, the use of the spring experience of the epidemic, economic protection and protection measures are once again an opportunity for us to defend ourselves successfully. We have one request for left-wing parties: if in this [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They can't help us, at least don't push us back. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-28	Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, again.
u2020-10-05-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Indeed, we see that Hungary's epidemic curve has been moving in parallel with other countries since the beginning of the year, and that there may be a few weeks of differences between other countries and Hungary, obviously in the order of magnitude, to the extent where the population is and the number of infected people at the same rate. But the curve runs up during the same periods, sometime there around March, or at the end of August, at the beginning of September, the second wave began in almost every country, and we see the increase in the number of diseases again. In the first wave Hungary was successful, and the faction leader referred to this. If you look at the number of dead people per million inhabitants or other indicators, you can see that Hungary has been able to defend effectively, because every Hungarian person who could, has joined forces, work in a hospital, in a police station, or be an employee, a commercial worker, everyone has been able to join forces, and so Hungary has been successful. The more successful we can be during the second wave, the wider the cooperation. Before the second wave, the national consultation took place, which was spectacularly tried to prevent by the left. It seems that whenever it comes to national cooperation and national minimums, be it December 5th, 2004 or fight against the virus, the left always tries to spread the Hungarian people apart and not help us to unite, in 2004 Hungarians cross-border and cross-border, and now, this year, all of us are united against the coronal virus epidemic. This is why the national consultation was important in order to have a broad cooperation, and this broad cooperation is further deepened by the proposal of the Hungarian Medical Chamber and its acceptance by the government, which brings to Hungary a real increase in medical wages, for which there has not been an example in the last thirty years. In addition, it helps to eliminate a very long-standing practice, the institution of gratuity money. Thanks money was first heard in Hungary in the 1950s: while doctors in the Central Committee of the Hungarian Workers' Party considered it part of the class struggle that they were part of the repressive power machine of the former system, therefore they deserve to be greatly reduced in wages, and this wage reduction was implemented in the name of the communist idea, but for some reason, the prestige of doctors was obviously very high. This word was officially spoken at a MSZMP convention in Hungary and became part of Hungarian customs, since everyone considered their health to be the most important. This is, therefore, the Hungarian custom, which could be created from the 1950s, remained here, an unfortunate habit that puts everyone in an awkward position: who gave, who received, a doctor, and who was sick. In the 2000s there was also a healthcare left-wing idea, it would have been called a hospital daily allowance and a visitation fee, so in every way some kind of payment is in the healthcare system according to left-wing logic. This was abolished by a referendum. The two left-wing inheritances would therefore have been to pay a visitation fee and hospital daily allowance under a left-wing government for patients with a coronal virus, and to which there was still gratuity money left from the 1950s. We also saw what the left had done in health care during the previous economic difficulties: he had laid off 6,000 health workers; he had reduced the salary of everyone; he had closed several hospitals; he had set down 16,000 beds, and he tried to make healthcare pay, in Hungarian: he pressed me. During the previous crisis, there was a clear austerity in health care, and now there is a clear increase in resources, as the cost of protection does not have an upper ceiling, and it is the medical wage increase that can be achieved in Hungary, the most radical, the largest medical wage increase in the last 30 years in all countries of the world in this year of crisis. If Parliament adopts the bill, it means that from next year, a doctor starting his professional career will earn HUF 481,000, HUF 619,000 from next year; from 2023 the starting wage will be HUF 687 thousand in health care. Anyone who has been on the field for 20 years will earn more than HUF 1 million for the next year, who has more than 20 years on the field, who will earn almost HUF 1.5 million from 22nd to HUF 1 million 655 thousand from 2023. And who has been working as a doctor for over 40 years, he can earn HUF 1 million 666,000 from next year, HUF 2 million 142 thousand from 2022 and HUF 2 million from 2023, who has worked as a doctor for more than 40 years in health care. I think it's also from the point of view of the control of the epidemic. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] this bill is extremely important. We're asking Parliament to support you this week. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-30	Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-10-05-31	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Erik Fülöp, independent; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Varju, DK; Gergely Farkas, independent; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Gergely Kolló, Jobbik; István Apáti, independent. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Gergely Arató, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; István Apáti, independent.
u2020-10-05-32	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament transcripts on the termination of the office of State Secretary and the appointment of new State Secretarys. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs to make these known. [[14.20]]
u2020-10-05-33	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 205. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Mr Vilmos Zsigó, State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry, was exempted from this mandate with effect from 30 September 2020. In addition, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. Mr Vilmos Zsigó was appointed State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 25 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration Law 205. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Mr Vilmos Zsigó, State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry, was exempted from this mandate with effect from 30 September 2020. In addition, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. Mr Vilmos Zsigó was appointed State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 25 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-10-05-34	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Gergely Ekler as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 25 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Gergely Ekler as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 25 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-10-05-35	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Károly Papp as State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 28 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Károly Papp as State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior with effect from 1 October 2020. Budapest, 28 September 2020 Sincerely: János Áder. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-10-05-36	Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate Mr.Róbert Zsigó, Mr.Vilmos, Mr.Gergely Ekler and Mr. Károly Papp on their work. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[It's happening.]] No one has indicated that your computer is not working, so we'll get to the decisions. The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/13174. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision, the consolidated debate being held on 6 October as the first item on the agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Tuesday 6 October. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for more than half of the Members to vote in favour of the exceptional procedure. Now it's time for the decision. I ask you, do you accept T/13174. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 155 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear House, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:25 p.m. today. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the agenda for today's meeting should be amended to include T/13174. At the time of the adoption of the special procedure for the adoption of the legislative proposal No 1 at the meeting on Tuesday 6 October, decisions shall take place not earlier than 12:30 p.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority has accepted the proposal. Dear House, The Fidesz Group proposed that the 1996 LV on game protection, wildlife management and hunting be held on Tuesday, 6 October. T/13109. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall take place immediately after the closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament supports the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please report with your hands up again. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to ask B/12910, which was submitted with the title B/12910 on the domestic security of nuclear power in 2017. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. I ask the House if it supports it. Anyone who does, let's put their hands up. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. [[Noise, interruptions.]] I apologize. I was wrong. There's a machine vote coming up. So once again, I ask this House to support the Economic Committee's discussion and decision on B/12910. the presentation. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal by 116 votes to 41, with no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to ask B/12911. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House also adopted this proposal by 114 votes to 41, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for an interpellation, this item will not be discussed, we will now continue our work by discussing immediate questions. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. Noise. It's a short break.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen who do not wish to hear the immediate questions, not to talk in the horseshoe, but to leave the meeting room as quickly as possible. That even applies to the ministers. Thank you very much. [[14.30]] Dear House, We'll get back to work. Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. In the absence of the Prime Minister, Mr Gergely Gulyás gives the right to reply to the Prime Minister's Office. I ask the Members of Parliament to accept the Minister as a reply.
u2020-10-05-37	We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-10-05-38	The Members will wait for the Prime Minister, who will answer you for the next second time at the latest. Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. Here you go, Congressman, I'll give you the floor.
u2020-10-05-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am glad to see you again, and we have the opportunity to speak in a few words about the past period, which is rarely given. We have the second wave of the virus epidemic on our hands, which, of course, we could have known well in advance that it would happen, that it could be prepared for, or I would have said, that it could have been prepared, and that is the very first question that comes to my question, Minister. Please tell us about the important steps you have taken in your education portfolio during the preparation period, so that the institutions can start this not-so-sounding school year as flexible as possible, what real steps they have taken. Please put it on your fingertips to see how easy the wallet has been for teachers, students and parents. From the Secretary of State of Retvár we have heard a lot of horse-zung and propaganda-scented outbursts about this, but you are the face of this wallet, its head, a specialist who can give us a proper answer. The other very important issue, on which I would like your answer to my question, concerns the work of the Government Commissioner for Digital Content Development, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan. Did his work speed up, speed up during the last summer? We saw her husband's speeding up and speeding up on Facebook, and in all sorts of comments he tried to insult and threaten those facebookers who left unconventional comments. I don't know, Minister, do you fit into your everyday life, into your moral mind to be threatened by government commissioners' husbands? For us, of course, that's not gonna fit. But as we remember, in the Borsod campaign, you have built your entire campaign against László Bíró on a lie, I think you probably can do that, and that is very unfortunate. So my specific question is that Commissioner Judit Czunyiné Bertalan put something on the table. If so, then what, if not, why not? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2020-10-05-40	I give the floor to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-10-05-41	What we did this summer and before September to prepare schools and kindergartens: the EMMI prepared an epidemiological action plan, published on 18 August and amended on 7 September. This is a ten-page, highly detailed recommendation, which allows each institution to choose appropriate and applicable procedures according to its own capacity. That's 11 chapters. The provisions apply to the fact that only healthy people can visit schools, maintain a protective distance, avoid crowd clashes, keep parents and escorts outside the institution. We've postponed the events, the excursions, the trips abroad. We've introduced a ringing order. We've restricted the activities of the sports circles, as well as the self-teaching circles. We dealt with the issues of swimming training, laid down the rules for disinfection, and published very detailed rules for eating. We introduced the temperature measurement from October 1st and determined what to do if a Covid positive student or teacher occurs. And Mrs. Czunyi did her job. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Interviews from Jobbik: Her husband, too.]] in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]]
u2020-10-05-42	Once again, Congressman Tamás Csányi has the floor.
u2020-10-05-43	Thank you very much. Well, that's what we were wondering about, because we don't technically know what you're doing. He's been playing this role for a long, long time, since 2016, and we've practically never seen a product from him. If it isn't a recompense instead of a secretary of state. I'm just asking, I'm not saying. On the basis of the PDSZ survey, the individual teachers saw during the quarantine period, Minister, that they had received no assistance from you, or even increased their daily expenses to some and others, and were forced to acquire assets, all of which had damaged their own cash register, the family budget. A significant proportion of them thought that you had abandoned them and probably felt the same in September. I think it would be worth thinking about real wage development in the sector, it would be worth thinking about the reform of the pedagogical career model, because, you know, Minister, if we run out of teachers, we'll run out of futures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2020-10-05-44	Once again, it is Minister's turn to reply.
u2020-10-05-45	Honourable Congressman, The compensation took place in the early '90s. We don't care about that, but we deal with teachers. It does not correspond to the claim that teachers would be left alone, since everything was provided by the state, protective equipment, procedures and everything else. It proves that education is in place. There is evidence of infection numbers in educational institutions, resulting in an extraordinary break from over 6,000 institutions in 21 kindergartens, 5 schools, 0.71 percent of all kindergartens and 0.16 percent of all schools, digital education in 64 cases in one class, 4 cases in full school. So the result is surprisingly good. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-05-46	László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. The Prime Minister authorised Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Office to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-10-05-47	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-10-05-48	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question. The Secretary of State will answer instead of the Minister for Finance if he accepts it. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-49	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is well known to everyone that the Orbán government has converted to the inflation-following pension-raise technique after its entry into the 2010 government, and the result is that it has practically frozen pensions, because this inflation-following pension-raise technique is nothing more than a miserablely low pension, and it is guaranteed that it will live miserablely few pensions in the next year as well. This inflation-following pension raising technique is also a blow to small pensioners because we now see inflation figures from month to month, which clearly shows that inflation measured by pensioner inflation, the pensioner consumer basket, is significantly higher than inflation measured and recorded by the population as a whole. As a result, we have initiated a return to the mixed indexation, namely the Swiss indexation, in contrast to the 2.8 percent increase in pensions this year, where 50 percent of the planned inflation and 50 percent of the net wage increase realised are taken into account. As a result, a 6.5 percent pension increase should have taken place this year. Therefore, in the interest of pensioners in bad circumstances, I would like to ask the Secretary of State that he has also seen the possibility of establishing the retrocession in November in a 6.5 percent increase in pension, there is an opportunity for pensioners under HUF 100,000 to receive a one-time supplement of at least HUF 30 thousand and to plan a pension correction programme to catch up on very low pensions. I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-05-50	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. [[14.40]]
u2020-10-05-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I remind you that the principle of the Fidesz government's pension policy is that pensioners should also be beneficiaries of domestic economic processes, which is why they worked for the country for decades and raised their children. The work of the current pensioners contributes to the success of active workers, which must be acknowledged. It is very important that the policy of the current government is that if there is a crisis or a problem with the economy and if it is underachieving, it should not affect the real value of pensions, its stability. I am telling you this because when you were in the government, this was not the case, because you were using the crisis to reduce pensioners' pensions. The current government, on the other hand, has since 2011 maintained the real value of pensions, its purchasing value, but not only has it kept it, but it has also increased it by 10 percent. It is very important to stress that this is a very serious performance, a very serious economic performance. Indeed, since 2012, if the rate of the early pension increase exceeds the rate of inflation during the year, it will be supplemented in November as a retirement supplement. That's how it's gonna be this year. The rate of the pension increase was 2.8 per cent, and depending on how the pensioner's index of consumer prices develops by the end of the year, will be added to each pensioner's pension as much as it has been every year in the last ten years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-52	Once again, Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2020-10-05-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That is because, Mr Secretary of State, I think you have admitted that pensioners have been lending to the government for ten months, because I think the government has deliberately underdesigned inflation. When the budget was being debated, I myself said here that the central bank had already planned for this year with higher inflation than the government has submitted this year's budget. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State did not reply that he would return to the mixed indexation, he saw the possibility of establishing this retrospective adjustment by 6.5 percent, and he did not respond either, Mr State Secretary, to the plans for drawing up and submitting to Parliament a pension correction programme for those with very low pensions, including those with a pension of less than HUF 100,000. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary, as always. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-54	In return, Mr. Secretary of State has the floor again.
u2020-10-05-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I won't be able to talk about comprehensive plans for pension conversion in a minute, but I am talking to you about one thing: that the Fidesz government will start re-establishing the 13th month pension at the beginning of next year, which will be completed by 25 percent at the beginning of the year, by 50 percent in 22 and by 23 percent at the beginning of the year. This is also a big difference between your governance and the current civilian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, because you have taken away the 13th month pension in crisis. You're demanding now, but you were still here in Parliament and you voted to take away a month's pension from pensioners. I'm telling you, you think this crisis is bigger than it was back then. However, we do not do this, but exactly vice versa, in the difficult situation, we give to pensioners, in proportion to the performance of the economy, we begin to give back the 13th month's pension that you have taken. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-56	Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, has given the right to reply if he accepts it. [[Zoltán Varga: Thank you, I accept, yes.]] Thank you. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, While ten million Hungarians are stunned by the fact that they are slowly going with the police luxury helicopter not only to lunch but also to home, and buddy oligarchs are giving the government members pleasure for a hundred million bucks, which, I don't have to say, the Hungarian workers will end up paying from their taxforints at the cash register, while despite all the government's lying propaganda, healthcare will be destroyed. We see the Prime Minister making new victory reports every day, but health professionals are ringing the alarm bell that health care is close to complete collapse. We know that, you know that, and we know that the Prime Minister is simply not telling the truth. Because there are few doctors, few professionals, not only to operate Chinese machines purchased five or ten times more expensive than the European average, purchased by scoutes, but in fact also for general medical treatment. But the creepy thing about this whole story is that you don't care. Instead of looking at professionals, you're looking at the man who's taking the country to water, the man who's rushing, who says otherwise one day and does something different the next day. And the senseless haste, and you know it, Mr. Secretary, will have a terrible cost. It is feared that patients who can be cured and rescued will become victims of insane government crisis management. I am thinking not only of Covid's patients, but also of those who are ill or ill-treated. Secretary of State, your Prime Minister said on September 17th that whoever catches the disease will be cured. 14 people died on Saturday, 10 on Sunday, 11 today. How many more victims have to die to lead Hungarian health care not by a politician in war rhetoric or football fever, but by real professionals? Thank you very much. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2020-10-05-58	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2020-10-05-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We know your health policy, Mr honourable Member, because you have also been in the government in Hungary. At a time when you announced economic crisis management, you were pressed, and within the framework of this austerity, you took a month's salary from all Hungarian nurses, you took a month's salary from all Hungarian doctors, you stopped patient care on 16,000 beds, so that no one on those beds, but no one on those beds, could heal, and who remained in the health care after the 6,000 layoffs you conducted, got less pay. After you have received this message from the IMF headquarters to shut down hospitals and shut down four, dismiss workers and lay off 6 000, withdraw money from health care and withdraw 600 billion forints, we will certainly not ask you for advice. On the other hand, this year, we have made the cost of protection without a ceiling. This year, despite the fact that we are talking about a crisis year, a 14-percent increase has already been made for the workers, and an additional 20 per cent will occur, an increase in medical wages will occur in the coming years, if we adopt the bill to be discussed today and tomorrow here in Parliament, for which there has not been an example for thirty years, then, on average, in the case of doctors, we can say that there will be a double wage because we want to fight the virus with the widest cooperation. In this very wide cooperation there are doctors, nurses, health workers, policemen who work in shops, or everyone else who protects their workplaces, there is only one group in it, only one small section, you, the left-wing parties, who manufacture chamomuvideos, generate false news here in Parliament and run abroad with all kinds of news, including the fact that the Hungarian Parliament does not meet, honourable Member. On the other hand, thanks to God, with this broad cooperation, we have been more effective in defending ourselves than most of the European countries or many of the countries of the world in the first wave, and we are trying to do so in the second wave. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-60	Once again, the congressman has the floor.
u2020-10-05-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I have to say that today was a waste of time for you to get up. This text you've been saying here, I could probably say it back to the last article, which I've been hearing from you for almost six months. Whatever they ask you, that's your answer. It's just not enough. This situation should therefore be resolved now, and health care should be fixed now. You've ruined it. DK has been saying for six months that it is necessary to increase the wages of doctors, health care workers and even those working in the social sphere. Instead, it looks like you've chosen another pretend solution, the propaganda you've been pushing through. That won't be enough. It will be very difficult to explain to the people, to the relatives who are dying now, what was ten years ago. It's not enough. So I ask, Mr Secretary, that you try to rise to the height of the situation, not to act and behave as a politician pleases. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-62	Once again, Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. [[14.50]]
u2020-10-05-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, Congressman, tell me another prime minister outside the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, who has reduced the salaries of doctors working in health care in Hungary and nurses working in health care. Name another Hungarian politician, who reduced wages in health care. He can't say. Your party president, your Prime Minister's candidate, whose wife will be your Prime Minister's candidate, is the only person who, not only has not made order in Hungarian health care, but has destroyed it. He wanted to privatize what he could, make it pay, and what money could be deducted from wages in particular, he took it from these wages. This was your health program. Honourable Congressman, See if you can believe the numbers that you've lost a third of your people in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 100 000 inhabitants in the epidemic, like Canada, Romania, or a quarter as many as, say, the Netherlands, or seven as in Sweden; I think this was an effective Hungarian defense. Let's hope we can do it again together. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-05-64	Dear House, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who commissioned Minister Gergely Gulyás to answer if you accept the person of the responding.
u2020-10-05-65	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-10-05-66	Thank you. The Prime Minister must answer you at the hour of the second immediate question. It's your turn again, and more precisely now it's your turn, if you'll accept the person you're responding to. In this case, however, you will ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology, who has appointed Mr János Schanda Secretary of State to answer if you accept it. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. Thank you very much. Then it's up to you.
u2020-10-05-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about a very, very serious, perhaps one of the most depressing Hungarian system problems today for many times. On an issue the importance of which Prime Minister acknowledged in his Summer Declaration; and not so long ago, this is also an important part of the crisis management package initiated by the Hungarian National Bank. I would like to talk about the near collapse of the water utility sector. Since this is indeed a policy, a professional issue, I am trying to ban party policy as much as possible from my speech, from my question, and I am asking you, exceptionally, Mr Secretary of State, to try to give me professional and policy answers. It is quite clear that the legacy was very difficult in 2010, but since then the system has been facing extremely serious problems. So since 2011, the number of network failures has doubled, so I'm talking about your government cycle. Today, the proportion of water systems with an appropriate rating is below 20 percent. Today, experts estimate around 3000 billion in terms of how much is missing in the 15-year horizon, so that this most important public service or public utility systems can be maintained. So it is clearly a huge challenge today to maintain the provision of healthy drinking water and to protect water bases. I repeat, Prime Minister has also indicated that this is a problem of the magnitude of a thousand billion, which must be resolved immediately. For years, we have been asking the government what they are doing about this, and they are always talking about some kind of foggy strategy, that there is already a sectoral strategy, but we do not see it being done. The Hungarian Water Utility Association always confirms that they are not communicating with them, so now they have not been contacted after the Prime Minister's summer declaration. But my question concerns this, Mr Secretary of State, when they will take action to prevent the collapse of water utilities and drinking water services, when they will help service companies in a very difficult situation, and when this strategy, which has been promised for a very, very long time, will be completed with regard to the situation in the sector. Thank you in advance for your professional response.
u2020-10-05-68	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-10-05-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to protecting our common treasure, drinking water and good quality drinking water and delivering it to Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families. Our joint task is to develop and modernise the necessary network, because, as you have said, it is indeed a serious task, a serious matter that lies ahead of us and which seeks a solution. Honourable Congressman, Before I go into the answer in more detail, allow me to draw attention to the fact that, after all, the starting point is that you really should ask this question by your left-wing friends. The fact is, honourable Member, that they were, and you want to make an alliance with them, and you want to have a governance opportunity, who have privatised public utilities, have allowed foreign owners to squash their vast profits abroad from the families of Hungary, and they have done so by virtually making zero improvements on the system. Honourable Congressman, The left-wing governments, all they could do, were misplaced, privatised, and foreign companies, instead of developing, let the utilities be destroyed, while the money they took from the families was taken out of the country as a profit. Honourable Congressman, This situation has been inherited and subsequently taken by the national civilian government the measures to improve the situation in the sector. Of the 400 water utility providers, only a fraction of this is left, who can provide better services. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-05-70	Once again, the leader of the group has the floor, please.
u2020-10-05-71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to point out that the position of the LMP is very strong that the water utility infrastructure must always be preserved and the companies involved must always be kept in national ownership, i.e. essentially municipal and state-owned. In this case, we may also have discussions with the governments before 2010. In your reply, you practically acknowledged that 10 years was not enough to take any meaningful steps to save the sector. The fact that the situation in the sector has improved since 2010 is also a serious mistake. It didn't get better. Every year, the Hungarian Vízközmű Association provides a very clear professional evaluation prepared by professional organisations and professional consultants, which means that we can say that this sector is practically in a state of collapse. Perhaps you have also heard that the Alföldwater company, which supplies drinking water to nearly half a million people, has come near virtually inoperable. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to try to give a meaningful answer to this question. Not for me, but for the Hungarian people. And I also have a question for you to support the proposal that we have put forward many times that, as a first step, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the water utility tax, the utility tax, is withdrawn from the system as a matter of fire-fighting. [[The president's ringing again.]] That would be a big help to the companies. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-72	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor again. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to say that we will provide clean and quality drinking water for the Hungarian people and Hungarian families as long as we govern. Allow me also to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that what you say is not true is that no action has been taken in this sector. As I mentioned earlier, some 400 companies dealt with this in 2010, it has now fallen to about 40 companies, so that they can otherwise provide a more qualitative, prepared and better service. The size of the plant is much better this way, in this structure than in the previous period. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has consulted, continuously consulted and prepared a strategy that will answer countless questions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-05-74	Dear House, Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who appointed Minister Gergely Gulyás. Do you accept? [[For signal:]] He accepts the Minister as a responder. Then you have the floor.
u2020-10-05-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, According to official data on the website of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, employment has fallen considerably. Not surprisingly, there is also an economic crisis surrounding the pandemic. According to official figures, the number of people employed has decreased by more than 117 thousand people compared to the same period of the previous year, which is a huge number. It is like disappearing from the labour market map of Hungary with the entire population of a town the size of Győr or Nyíregyháza or Székesfehérvár or Kecskemét. This number is brutal in itself, but if we look to the bottom of things, the processes are even worse, as, according to a recent survey, about 15 percent of those surveyed said that they had lost their jobs in the past period, and that the number and proportion of those who declared that they had had to make a serious loss of income were significantly higher. [[15.00]] This is thanks to the fact that a significant proportion of small entrepreneurs responded to the crisis by sending their employees home on forced leave in the hope that they could be taken back someday, in months' time, but these people, confidently, do not show up among job seekers on the labour market, but do not have any income. So the reality is even worse than what the official figures reflect, as many companies have used this not-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so, but unfortunately, not a rare tool in Hungary. So I ask Minister, in this situation, when the masses of people are losing their jobs, their income, what does the government intend to do about it? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I don't want these people on the side of the road. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-10-05-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-10-05-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since KSH's data is publicly available to everyone, I am therefore obliged to correct your statement before your question. Here is the KSH monitor, which says that for the first time in August 2020 there is January and February in this year, when the economic crisis caused by the crisis, the coronal virus epidemic did not even hit Europe and Hungary had more than 4.5 million people working. The August 2020 issue will continue, and I quote KSHt, literally, with only 18,000 more. [[0.4 per cent]] It was lower than last August. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So 4 million 513 thousand people were working. Of course, more people work part-time. Of course, it is also true that part-time work for many people, for many people, makes this about 127 thousand people, if I remember correctly, but this can lead to a loss of income, but if there is an area of economic difficulties caused by the epidemic where the government is best placed in Europe, where unemployment remains among the lowest figures, so if I look at this from unemployment, it is employment and unemployment statistics. Therefore, the government will, of course, do and will do a great deal to protect jobs and create new jobs, but I would like to thank the Member for asking him about the area in which we are at the moment best on time, even if, of course, there is something here to improve and make up for the damage to the epidemic. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-78	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-79	Minister, you are once again choosing to quote from another table. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] It is on the website of the KSH and is on the website of.2.2.2. The economic activity of the population aged 15-64 per sex is the latest. Here is the number, just to clarify the Minister's words: 4 433 800 people worked in the second quarter of 2019, 4 316 100 people worked in the second quarter of this year. From now on, with a simple withdrawal, the Minister will receive the same number as I do. Be nice to look into it and not browse another chart. The KSH has a variety of methods, don't always quote the one closest to your statement, your heart. But that's not the point, it's the fact that hundreds of thousands of people are now losing a significant part of their income without the government giving any answer. There is insufficient job protection support, they refuse to extend unemployment benefits, they refuse to negotiate the introduction of basic crisis incomes, they simply leave people on the side of the road. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Congressman! The thing is, your new speech just drew attention to the fact that you quote incorrect statistics, because you quote the second quarter. [[Sándor Burány: This is the latest data!]] You're quoting the second quarter. The second quarter in this country, as in Europe elsewhere, April, May, June. This is therefore the worst period affected by the crisis. So we can now, together with Congressman, welcome the fact that I am literally reading the report of the KSH: in August 2020 the average monthly number of 15-74-year-olds was the highest within the year, with 4 million 514 thousand people. It was an increase of 54,000 people compared to the previous month. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There is a moment when quarterly statistics do not make any sense: when an economic crisis, such as the epidemic, occurs suddenly. Here only the monthly data is important, as many have lost their jobs quickly, and many, thanks to God, according to August data have already acquired it. This still has a lot of problems and problems that can be discussed in the labour market, but that we are best at all comparisons. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And to give you quarterly data, it's a complete mistake, I'm pretty sure. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-82	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Pál Szigmond Barna, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Who writes the reports of the European Commission? Mr. Congressman! Due to the absence of Minister, Minister Pál Völner has appointed Mr Secretary of State with the answer. I respectfully ask you to accept the person you are responding to.
u2020-10-05-83	I'll take it.
u2020-10-05-84	Thank you very much. Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The European Commission's recent rule of law report is repeatedly unsubstantiated to attack our country. The report is a political waltz, an eloquent proof of double standards, a biased text. Since our accession to the European Union in 2004, it has only been 16 years, but we have to realise that the values of the Union are completely out of shape. Hungary does not accept Europe becoming an immigrant continent. The EU continues to force its quota, the liberal opinion is being bullied, and Hungary is being attacked for the reasons for rejecting illegal migration. Because of our consistent position, we could not count on anything positive about the European Commission's rule of law report for 2020. The document is teeming with material errors and contains unfounded false allegations. Věra Jourová was responsible for its preparation, the Vice-President of the Commission who called Hungary a sick democracy before the publication of the report, and he insulted the Hungarian people when he said that we could not, that we could not decide freely on political issues. Mrs Jourová is a member of a supranational organisation which cannot or may not insult the citizens of the countries that make up the organisation. Věra Jourová therefore gave its name to a report that was actually written by Soros organisations. Thirteen sources in the Hungarian chapter of the report It comes from eleven civil society organisations that have received financial support from the Open Society Foundation linked to György Soros in recent years. The list may be familiar: Helsinki Committee, TASZ, Mérték and others. The Ministry of Justice has already sent objective information to the report, but in vain, because only Soros organisations are heard in Brussels. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary's Government is a character right-wing national [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It pursues a policy of rejection of migration, and Brussels bureaucrats respond with a staff of the rule of law and financial hunger. The European Commission has also spent hundreds of thousands of European taxpayers' money to issue an absurd report. Do Hungarian people really appreciate it that much? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, If I did not respect the citizens of the Union, as Věra Jourová did not respect Hungarian citizens, I could also say that the democracy of the Union is sick. It is not acceptable to have a report written by organisations funded by an American billionaire, even those parts that appear to come from elsewhere. Hungary has made every effort to ensure that the rule of law report meets at least the minimum requirements of objectivity and balance, and we have provided detailed analyses to the Commission during the year in order to assist it in preparing the report; unfortunately, this has not been evaluated. Dear House, According to the available data, 11 of the twelve organisations that provided background material for the report, as you mentioned, are supported by Soros organisations, and their orientation has been constantly anti-government over the past period, such as migration or prison business. Since the establishment of the Orbán government in 2010, the Helsinki Committee has been supported by the Soros Foundations network. Another feature of the report is the mention of closed cases. These are matters which Hungary closed before 2014 in discussions with the Commission. This is like saying again that Věra Jourova, Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for values and transparency, was arrested in 2006 for corruption and was released only because of a low degree of evidence. [[15.10]] It's also a matter of fact. As well as the fact that Didier Reynders, the European Commission's Justice Commissioner, was in a period of corruption in Belgium, which was subsequently decided to make sure. Dear House, It is not surprising that the term used by Mr Jourová was when he classified Hungary as a sick democracy, because it is not necessarily Jourová's own idea, but the common expression of civil society organisations financed by György Soros. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Barna Sigismund.
u2020-10-05-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Indeed, the embarrassing campaign that the European Union is conducting against our country is unprecedented, and it is outrageous that not only did it have to be V. Jourová, but also the Social Democratic Congresswoman Katarina Barley threatened us, Poland and Hungary, and used the word "hungry" to quote the worst times against Poland and Hungary. Indeed, we cannot give up the fight, and I thank the Ministry of Justice for its persistent work, because it is very difficult to put forward realistic arguments against these lies. It is difficult to reason when we hear that the Hungarian Parliament is not working; it is difficult then to confront the reality of the representatives of the European Union or of the Council of Europe, which I see in Strasbourg as the Council of Europe, that they are throwing lies at our heads. And the same 10-20 civil society organisations are always setting up our country and saying untruths, while there are 60,000 civil society organisations in Hungary. It's intolerable, and we can't afford blackmail. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If the European Union is talking about the rule of law, it is important to think about why a billionaire American speculator can negotiate without any restrictions, either with the former President of the Commission or with his Vice-Presidents or with the Commissioners at any time without limitation. And if we think that his networks, his organisations and the Hungarian organisations he funded are also constantly engaged in political activities, then this situation is even more repulsive, since the Commission of the Union is not a political organisation, although President Juncker said this funnyly at the time, but according to the Treaty, they do not have such powers. There is a struggle everywhere, with Christian-conservative forces on the government in Europe. Hungary has a strong conservative position on matters of vital importance, so they are trying to use this rule of law instrument as a kind of punishment, to which the Luxembourg court would otherwise be competent. And we maintain that the Commission does not have such powers. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What does the government do for workers in health care? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, has been authorised to respond to his urgent engagement. I respectfully ask you to accept the response, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-93	Yeah.
u2020-10-05-94	He's clearly saying he's okay with it now. Congressman László Földi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, a large number of healthcare workers have been working to reduce the negative impact of the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary. During the first wave of the plague, dedication and commitment were exemplary in the way they did their work in the unknown danger. We have faced one of the greatest challenges of recent times, but each of the health workers knew their job and played a role in winning the fight against the first wave of the epidemic. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past period, the total cost of health care has also increased in terms of budget. The HUF 1300 billion expenditure on government health subsystems in 2009 will increase to HUF 2115 billion according to the approved budget for 2021 and will also exceed HUF 156 billion in 2020. It is also important to mention that in November this year the government will increase the salaries of nurses and health professionals by 20 percent, which is the third part of the previously announced 72 percent wage increase. Dear Secretary of State, The government is counting on the victims' work of health workers during the second wave. In addition to developing infrastructure, we must recognise the work of healthcare workers. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State what the government will do for health workers. I look forward to your reply with all due respect. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-05-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we're all double paying attention to the fact that the health system is working really well right now. Not only do we Hungarians pay attention to this in all countries of the world. And as we have seen the various news reports, recordings from other countries and we see the situation in Hungary, I think that we can be proud of Hungarian health workers, doctors and nurses, because we have managed to take the first wave of the epidemic more successfully than other countries that are richer than we are, and we hope that together we can succeed again in the second wave. Healthcare workers are obviously at greater risk, since they also care for patients with coronal viruses and other patients who may carry the coronal virus, and therefore for health workers, if they become infected with the coronal virus at work, they will receive 100 percent of the sick. They are assigned to them by the whole insurance body and are first diagnosed with the presence of the physician. This is also important, since they work in far more risky circumstances, with a greater chance of being infected. And it is also important that we try to protect them as much as possible, because they are the ones who protect other people, non-health workers, or heal other non-health workers in the event of the risk of illness. That is why it is important for healthcare workers to receive 100 per cent of sick money in case of workplace infection. Today and tomorrow, both here in Parliament and in plenary, the double wages and radical wage increases of doctors are on the agenda. During previous periods of crisis management, doctors' wages have been reduced, this is the Gyurcsány model, and there is a right-wing response to crisis management, not the austerity, but the wage increase. We hope that this increase in wages will encourage even more people in their career choices, and that is why in Hungary medical supplies will be much more secure in all areas after this radical, very large increase in medical wages. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. I asked this question because in my constituency there are two hospitals, the Nagykőrös Rehabilitation Hospital and the Toldy Ferenc Hospital in Cegléd. About 4,500 people work in the two hospitals, and I think it is very important that the government measures that have already taken place and will take place, for example, in relation to the increase in medical wages, are a good opportunity for doctors and nurses to stay in place, so that they do not go to other areas, especially abroad. I also express the hope that, in addition to such a wage increase, Hungarian doctors working abroad may also come home, because it will be worth working as a doctor at home. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government has accepted the complex package of proposals of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, along with many details of which, in addition to the large-scale wage increase, the release of the gratuity money was a legacy that was a burden for everyone. We hope that all doctors in the hospital where they work will now have an official, legal income that we will be able to deliver both a system of gratitude money for doctors creating very humiliating situations in everyday life and a system of gratuity money for the patient, and that will indeed result in a salary worthy of a civil way of life, the prestige of a medical profession. Obviously, it is very important for all of us that hospitals are able to function well, and it should not be the gratuity money that puts a bad logic in the system, if any. We hope that this high wage increase will free Hungarian health care from the gratuity money. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As an independent Member, Congressman Gergely Farkas wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for families an immediate question:. What do you advise them, Madam Minister? It's an address. [[15.20]] Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that you have asked Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, to reply because of the Minister's absence. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Minister for her answer personally.
u2020-10-05-103	Thank you, but I'll wait for Madam Secretary.
u2020-10-05-104	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that, at the forthcoming third meeting, the Minister must answer the question that has been raised. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Why are you pulling the ground out of the hands of the local authorities? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister, because of your absence, you have authorized Mr. Secretary of State Pogácsás to answer. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for saying that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, However you try to explain it differently, it is no exaggeration to say that since your government, since 2010, there has been a systematic downsizing of the local government. You started this by transforming funding, the normative support system has been converted into task funding. Nationalised, we see the educational and health institutions maintained by the municipality with great success. The ASP system has been introduced to monitor the economic and financial decisions of the municipalities as Big Brother, virtually all operations. Cases such as child protection and guardianship, or matters relating to documents, records, infringement or licensing cases have been removed from the municipalities, and this can be stepped up, and the peak is the removal of construction cases from the municipalities and the transfer of these cases to government offices. There is no other means left in the hands of the municipalities and mayors, only and only the procedure for consulting the settlement image, which we know is a miniature tool, so that they have a real say in what is being built in that settlement. We thought that this could no longer be increased, but in 2020 you were able to put a crown on this whole system. That is to say, the taking away of own income from the business tax, the tourist tax, the car tax. You do nothing but systematically degrade the last bastion of democracy. What else could happen in the coming period? Nothing's expensive for you. They create an addiction system that has even been named: the program of the Hungarian village or the programme of modern cities. It's obvious that they're holding the local government at bay, tying their hands. This isn't going to end well. So I respectfully ask, when will you finally admit that you have pulled the ground out of the hands of the local governments and are working to break down the last bastions of democracy? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-05-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have to say that the list of our sins you believe has resulted in an immeasurable amount of factual error. On the one hand, I think that the local government system is indeed one of the most important bastions of democratic transformation in Hungary, and that the municipalities, by regulating settlements and shaping the lives of settlements, really contribute to making citizens feel that the country is developing. The systematic transformation you have made from your faction, these accusations have been made continuously, in that order, and in these mistakes. So let us state that by 2009-2010, the Hungarian municipal system was on the verge of collapse. According to the then State Audit Office of Hungary, the government withdrew some HUF 3000 billion from the municipal system between 2006 and 2009. Of this, some 1,300 billion were replaced by loans and some 600-700 billion were made out of assets and assets. The Orbán Government has taken over the loans and has re-opened the operation of the municipalities through a rational division of tasks. You are mistaken when, for example, you refer to the publication of documents as a municipal task; this has never been, at most, a notary competence. The construction department is the same way. It would have been very strange if the body of representatives of the municipality had had any way of interfering with a matter of authority or building authority. It was notordinary, it had to be done on the basis of taxation. So it had nothing to do with the operation of the municipal system. The ASP has been constantly attacked by you. Today, the vast majority of municipalities are happy to work in the ASP and clearly see that regular farming is much simpler than before. Moreover, the controls also show that the management of municipalities has become significantly more regular. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-109	Thank you. His reply also shows that Mr Secretary of State is living in some alternative reality. You don't have to go that far, just a few hundred kilometers to Borsod, there's an election going on. There, in that constituency, you are alarming voters with which, in any campaign, it is true that if they do not support the pro-government candidate, then they will not receive a tender source. I was thinking of this addiction, when I said that with a unique distribution of money, they were practically blackmailing, threatening voters. But after that, a lot of people open their eyes. So we're working on Sunday, October 11th, in the Borsod 6th constituency to break down two-thirds. Go, László Bíró! Go, Borsod! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-05-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You haven't opened your eyes, and you've completely closed your eyes. Remember the sentences of his coalition partner, Mónika Lamperth, as Minister of the Interior, in which he clearly explained that, by losing the municipal elections, the MSZP will, however, keep their hands exactly on the municipal budget, keep their hands on the developments, and the small regional associations were designed and invented accordingly. So when you're talking about the political distribution of money, it's exactly what your new friend, the left, brought into this country. And if you look at the Hungarian village programme, you can see that all Hungarian municipalities were able to win from the five thousand to a few hundred applications on at least two sub-programmes, regardless of the party status of the municipality. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I am obliged to correct what I have said on the immediate question of Congressman Gergely Farkas, where he did not accept the person of the respondents, because the accepted H/12958. in the case of independent Members, if the independent Member does not accept the person of the responding person, his question shall be deemed to be withdrawn. So this is what I am now obliged to announce as an amendment. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is happening here? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister, because of your absence, you have authorized Secretary Bence Rétvári to answer. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for saying that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The World Health Organization recommends an appropriate testing strategy, and the epidemic in one country is controlled if less than 5 percent of the tests carried out are positive. This WHO recommendation has not been met in Hungary since 11 September. I have brought this recommendation here because in return we are constantly receiving from the government that the Hungarian state is testing according to WHO recommendation. It can be said positively that from mid-September, after 5 September, the proportion of daily tests increased, and at the end of September we reached the point that the daily testing rate was up to 10-12 thousand. [[15.30]] However, we can see that the number of PCR tests carried out in Hungary has dropped dramatically in the last few days, 6424 tests were performed yesterday, and this is a very drastic decline compared to the last few weeks. And what we see is that according to WHO's recommendation, the 5-percent ratio increased yesterday, which is already 14 per cent, so 14 per cent of the tests carried out are infected with Hungarian people. It's not right. Mr. Secretary. Officer Müller Cecília, Chief of Medicine, said at today's press conference, which was held by the operational tribe, that there was no financial limit to carrying out the tests, and there will not be any. We know that the limit is that, since the official price was introduced, there are very few labs in Hungary who can do this, and therefore the number of tests carried out has decreased dramatically. Secretary of State, test, test, test. We're not getting a real picture, and it's not right. Then we do not know the real data about how many people are infected in Hungary. Each number shows that we are facing a very serious period. Mr. Secretary, when are we going to test you as ordered by WHO? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-10-05-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, if you have been looking around the countries of Europe in recent days, looking around the world, you can see that more and more news is coming every day, in every country, or in our immediate neighbours, if you look at Western European countries, more and more quasi-negative records are being broken, more and more infected are being shown. Just as the second wave is here in Hungary and there are more and more people infected, so in many countries of Europe, there are more and more records almost every day. Of course, we strive to keep everyone's health to the greatest extent, so testing in Hungary is free of charge for everyone who shows the symptoms of the disease or who gets into contact research because he has met directly with someone who has been confirmed to be infected with a coronal virus. We also continuously increase capacity for increasing numbers, both in testing and in hospital capacity. You know it, you know it, it's very specific which hospitals are next, which beds are next in a row. Now there's 10,000 beds here, but if you need it, there'll be 20,000 if you need it, 30,000, so we can help these people. If you look at the WHO recommendation, on the one hand, for which you say that according to WHO, as Didier Lazzari said, it would be optimal for you to be able to perform ten tests in addition to each detected and confirmed infection. This is what all countries, including Hungary, are trying to do. If you look at this ratio, i.e. the proportion of infected and tested carried out, here, according to WHO, Latvia is performing the highest rate, and then Lithuania. But Hungary is ahead of countries such as France, Romania, Croatia, the Netherlands, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Spain, and could still be listed. So, looking at these countries in this respect, some of the countries around us are testing Hungary in some Western European but much higher proportions, so the opposition false news is not true that there would be significantly less testing rates in Hungary.
u2020-10-05-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not know, Mr Secretary, but today was announced at the press conference of the operational tribe, and in recent days we have seen a drastic decline in the test rate in Hungary, and the test rate has now resulted in a reduction in the risk of infection because of less testing. Secretary of State, I am sure you, too, or I do not know whether you receive daily emails about how the testing is taking place in Hungary today. They sent me one of the schools around me yesterday that one of the kids was doing a positive test. No one in the class has been tested, they've been quarantined, and that's it. One of the most stringent in Hungary is who can be tested in neighbouring countries. I can also tell you about my own child, that even though he had three symptoms, they didn't test him, they didn't test him on public roads. Mr. Secretary, complaints keep coming, that even though you're asking for it, the person is sick, produces the symptoms, but they're not tested, and these cases come in millions. Secretary of State, if there is no capacity, WHO recommends that veterinary laboratories be used. We are only telling you this because we too want the number of diseases to be reduced and as few people as possible to die in Hungary. There's only one way to do that if you filter out patients and test, test, test, test. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2020-10-05-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, is also entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you are really led by us to act as quickly and effectively as possible, then the question remains why you have not been able to vote for the Crown Virus Act here in Parliament, which would have given the government the opportunity to react quickly. Why did you vote against it? Why didn't you let him go to a quick trial and then the law itself wasn't supported? While you say that you support everything that helps defence, only when you have to vote here in Parliament, you say that a dictatorship is being built and that is why you do not support it. Obviously, life also denied their claim. When we were here in Parliament last week, we were talking about six hundred or a few thousand more tests, sampling, approaching 700,000 at the time. Now I went up to the website, and now he's saying 765 598 samples, so now, compared to the 700,000 at the time, the test numbers are approaching 800,000, so to a very large extent, there's tens of thousands more on this counter than they were a week ago. But while we are talking about the epidemic curve: Spain, France, Great Britain and Slovakia have reached a record, Romania has ten times the rate compared to Hungary, Ireland is planning to shut down for four weeks, universities in the Czech Republic have changed to digital education, these numbers are rising in all countries of the world. If we work together, we can fight relatively successfully again. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-120	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would ask both the speaking Members and the Secretary of State to keep the time frame. And, Honourable Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that, according to the adopted derogation from house rules, the Prime Minister and the Minister are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person after 60 minutes in the course of the discussion of immediate questions. And the 60th minute expired at 3:29 p.m., and now it's 3:37 p.m. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. How long will the government tolerate the amok run of the SZFE Board? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. The floor now belongs to Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-121	Dear Secretary of State, The government and the Ministry are miserablely fleeing their responsibilities in the case of the University of Theatre and Film Arts. Minister Gulyás said directly that the government is not part of the debates around the SZFE, because government supervision over the university has ceased. That's a lie, because according to the law you passed, the founding rights over the SZFE foundation are still exercised on behalf of the government by the Minister of ITM to this day. Minister Palkovics once defended himself with the legitimate appointment of the board of trustees. Well, according to the law that you have adopted, and which in all likelihood violates the principle of university autonomy as enshrined in the Fundamental Law. [[15.40]] Consider some examples of how the board works. For example, on 24 August, the Curatorium unilaterally adopted the new charter and organisational and operational order without consulting the university's current leadership, thereby denouncing the current management of the SZFE from its decision-making powers. Then, seeing that he was left on his own, to put it mildly, in occupying the university, they decided that the maintenance board would authorise itself, and with a retrospective amendment, to appoint the vice-rectors without a tender, and to entrust these vice-rectors with institution management. This was then added to the fact that, without agreement, an army officer, certainly worthy of merit, was appointed Chancellor against the chancellor, who had previously been appointed by the government, but working for public satisfaction. Now we have read that these leaders then took office, giving ultimatums to the university's employees, it is a pity that on 7 October; 6 October would have been more appropriate to an ultimatum that essentially threatens protesting students and workers. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How much longer will the government tolerate this? How long does he get out of responsibility? When will you replace the incompetent and illegal curatorium?
u2020-10-05-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-123	Honourable Congressman, In this story, there was only one threat, revenge in you, and it was voiced. Their leader Ferenc Gyurcsány, your leader, also stated that after reaching power, he wants to make the decisive figures of Hungarian cultural and artistic life a land runaway. You're threatening me! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] They want to make people who are otherwise involved in the successful model change of the University of Theatre and Film Arts and can continue to function as a better higher education institution. They threaten the members of the board, our excellent artists and professionals who have undertaken their duties here. We're talking serious people here, Congressman. The truth is, you haven't changed a bit. Nothing has changed compared to what we saw of you in 2006, but we certainly do not threaten the students or anyone else. Nor does the state intervene in protests, the students are free to protest, unlike during the administration of your boss Ferenc Gyurcsány, when eyes were fired, they chased people with water cannons and beat people bloody on the Hungarian streets. Congressman, it's called a threat. You don't want to hold us accountable for something you've committed a hundred times, a thousand times. Mr President, allow me once again to make it clear that the University of Theatre and Film is the maintainer of the Foundation for Theatre and Film Arts. And there is indeed an internal professional debate that the people of culture, the people of the world of film and theatre, must discuss with each other. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Congressman, that's the thing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. One-minute rejoinder, Congressman Gergely Arató has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-125	Dear Secretary of State, You speak of the excellence of culture and spirit, they are not threatened by anyone, and they do not have to face any consequences. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Only Ferenc Gyurcsány.]] However, those who undertake to go to a university and break down university autonomy as party soldiers and commissaries of this government must take responsibility for this. You have to take responsibility for ignoring even the academic autonomy of your established Fundamental Law. You always fear for your wealth and fear that you will lose it, but, you know, Secretary of State, there is more shame than losing your wealth, and these people have to face it. And it is a threat that if someone says that if you stop protesting by October 7th, there will be no consequences. What are the consequences if they don't stop? Speaking of threats, Mr. Secretary. And there will be consequences for the government if you leave that board. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] which operates in an illegal, illegal and unlawful manner, to insinuate. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-126	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-127	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear Parliament, You, as well as your boss Ferenc Gyurcsány, are threatening the excellent people who have played a role in transforming and changing models at the University of Acting Arts. We are talking about Kossuth-prize winners, people who are Jászai Mari-prize winners, people who are Béla Balázs Prize winners, people who have made films such as Eternal Winter, Tresor, Half World or Berni, which may not tell you anything, it's about an era where you were the winner and not the loser. This was also seen when you, as your predecessors, beat people bloody in protests in 2006. Free to mark in Hungary today [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] For college students, too. Honourable Congressman, This change of model is a good change of model, where there is indeed a professional debate, but this professional debate must be arranged between culture, theater and the people of art. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How much longer, Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating your acceptance of the responder. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-129	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On average, children may experience five to six colds and viral diseases each year, since their immune systems are more susceptible. However, under current regulations, children can only go back to school with a medical certificate. As a result, given practices have become extremely busy, they may receive 100-150 requests per day, with dozens of certificate exhibitions ending every day without a real medical examination. This also shows the parents'responsibility for what they say to the doctor. It doesn't matter if the parent is looking for the doctor because he needs the certificate, or if he needs real, real medical help. It is feared that with such a large supply burden, a child who really needs serious medical help may easily be lost or waiting. Parents can be expected to know when to seek medical advice, so they may need to reinstate parental responsibility in clearly non-coronal cases known to the parent. For a single headache or even a monthly period, the parent should seek medical advice, as it is the only way to return the child to education. My question is that you are thinking about changing this procedure, making medical practices easier or less burdensome. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We have read a lot about this issue in both the pró and versus the press in recent days. There is an extraordinary situation, the coronal virus epidemic, which is why we are trying to reduce the proportion and possibility of encounters where one person can give the coronal virus to another. Obviously, a doctor's office, a medical waiting room, can be one of the greatest risks, since people with weakened immune systems, symptoms of some disease, or even some of the symptoms of the coronal virus, can meet each other and pass on the infection. That's why we're trying to take two things into account, obviously it's in the best interest of the child. It is in the child's interest that his illness be diagnosed and, if possible, well diagnosed, and, nevertheless, reduce the possibility of passing the disease back or forth in the doctor's office or in the waiting room during an examination. That is why we have this system where the doctor's expertise is needed at present, because he has accumulated experience with a pediatrician, a general practitioner, that the overwhelming majority of parents do not have, and even if they consult on the phone, even if the doctor asks his questions in a way, he may be able to determine more precisely whether the child has a disease, has no illness, has a disease, has what weight or needs further examination. I think the majority of parents also require that a doctor learns about their child's symptoms, even if they don't see each other in person, but also through the phone. We strive, of course, for doctors to have as little administration as possible, which is why we have introduced the digital health system, the EEST, the single health service space, so that it is possible to transmit this data digitally, to look at the history. At the same time, it is in the interest of the children that if they have symptoms of a disease, if they are not seen by a doctor, at least the parent should consult the doctor and the other classmates, as well as other groupmates, with the same interest [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to go to a community only if it shows no symptoms of a coronal virus epidemic or any other disease. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor for the rejoinder. Here you go. [[15.50]]
u2020-10-05-133	Thank you for the floor. The current procedure requires testing in case of fever and shortness of breath, but according to pediatricians, the difficulty with testing children is that they usually do not have fever in case of a coronary virus or may have very mild symptoms. Therefore, it can easily be that the testing process itself and then the contact research process are hindered, which puts doctors in a difficult position. The test is mostly involved in contact research in children, because it is better to know that the teachers should be monitored and it is easier to prioritize contact person care when symptoms occur. My question is, why not establish a test protocol where the interests of vulnerable groups can prevail more effectively. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Hungary uses a protocol that is used in most countries of the world, as recommended by the WHO. The head of the office of the WHO in Hungary several times, even in left-wing media such as Klubradio or 168 Hours, said that Hungary acts according to the WHO protocol, so we also conduct tests, so we also do contact research. It is very important that testing is free of charge for everyone in Hungary, whether it is a child or an adult, if there is a risk that it has a coronary virus and shows these symptoms, but it obviously requires the assistance of a doctor. In the overwhelming majority of cases, the general practitioner, who orders this, but obviously the epidemiological experts can take similar steps, but the general practitioner has a key role to play. And what you said also justifies their involvement, because they are the ones who see the symptoms in children or in certain types of diseases exponentially, what symptoms are less. We also strive for free access to this, no visitation fees or any other awards. Those who would like to test themselves in addition, we set an official price so that they could not profit from them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who don't go by the doctor's orders, but by their own will. We trust that in the second wave, we will be able to successfully defend ourselves against the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Fellow Members! Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán appointed Minister of State to respond. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-05-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me clarify the title of the question: why is Fidesz lying about the basic income? Last week, the Fidesz State Secretary, perhaps you, lied that the introduction of the basic income would reduce the willingness to work. The reality is, however, that the model developed by the basic income dialogue, by raising low and medium wages, would only increase the willingness to work and make work more attractive. The Fidesz Secretary of State tried to back up his lie with another lie. He made the false statement that the Finnish basic income experiment would support fidesz prejudice. And when I indicated that this would go against reality, he began an intense Fake newscast. Let's look at the verifiable facts from a credible source with a reference. The competent Finnish Ministry, also available on Kela's official website, has the following title on the basic income experiment: Suomen perustulokokeilun arvionti apologies from the stenographer's colleague. On page 188, in paragraph 2, in the English-language summary, the following can be read in an acute translation: the average time spent in employment increased by six days in the group receiving the basic income compared to the control group. Further results in the same way: those receiving basic income reported less than the control group on health problems, stress, more optimistic about their future, more focused, and some confidence in people and institutions. And why hasn't the basic income been introduced yet in Finland, as has already been done in Italy, Spain, and as is planned in Scotland? The World Bank's 2020 study also concluded that it was only because of the fact that only one of the three governing parties at the time was committed to the basic income, the others opposed it. After all, Mr. Secretary, why is Fidesz lying about the basic income?
u2020-10-05-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, please try to give the answer.
u2020-10-05-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He tried to prevent my question with one last hussar cut, but I do ask the question because the answer you set out in advance did not satisfy me, and I think that there are millions more voters in Hungary in the same way. If these international experiments are so successful, if the Finnish story works so well, if all the other stories in the study described in the beautiful blikkfang scientific language work so well, then why doesn't anyone introduce it? Then why did the Finns decide that okay, we did it, we tried it, it didn't work? They didn't say that the Hungarians were right, but they could have said that. In any case, it was found not to work. Then convince the other parliamentary parties in Finland and the other parliamentary parties in the other democratic countries of the world that this thing is working! I can see you're trying to do this, and that's okay. A few percent of the voters in Hungary who support you will certainly appreciate this. The problem we have with him is that they bring back the principle that was in Hungary until 2010, and this is so simple to summarize: instead of work, aid. This is what you are offering to Hungarian voters. This led us to the collapse of the economy and to unemployment above 12 percent. We turned this whole story around after 2010 and told the Hungarian people that if we joined forces, we would succeed and we would provide them with work instead of aid. And thanks to this there was a coronal virus epidemic here or there was employment, as before the system changes or the collapses at that time, the Hungarian people are working, and they want to live from work, not from aid, and we support this effort. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-141	After the Fidesz Secretary of State has not answered the question, I will answer the question: Fidesz lies about the basic income because he is afraid of it. Fidesz fears a strong vision that is the opposite of Viktor Orbán's policy, as it builds on the exploitation, vulnerability and uncertainty of people. Fidesz is afraid of the idea of basic income, because it has overwhelming social support, and they know precisely that the majority of Fidesz voters agree with us that the basic income must be introduced. Dear Fidesz colleagues, don't be afraid, it won't hurt. Basic income is the future, and the future cannot be stopped. The basic income will be introduced sooner or later, whether you like it or not. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask for a one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman, I just don't understand one contradiction. If it is true that what you want is supported by the vast majority of Hungarian people, and the Fidesz-KDNP, or obviously the Hungarian government with the support of these parties, is afraid of this, then how can you stand at 1 percent according to public opinion polls? [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I'm sorry, thank you for your clarification, they're at 2 percent, and the Fidesz-KDNP is above 50 percent? There is a contradiction here that should be resolved not by us, not by the Hungarian Parliament and not by the voters, but by you. I wish you good work on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. How can the integrity of human dignity be guaranteed? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán appointed Minister of State to respond. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On Sunday there will be an interim election in Tiszaújváros. With the tragic suddenness, in sad circumstances, our fellow Member Ferenc Koncz was a loving, willing, open-hearted man who spent his whole life talking about it. The best way to live on in his political life is for the Member in his footsteps to succeed. It is an facial toaster, however, that the left of Saul becomes Paulus, who mourns democracy and the rule of law in Hungary from morning to evening, but now, in a self-righteous way, they stand behind a candidate who openly strikes an anti-Semitic tone. The candidate of the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány revealed extremely serious things. [[16.00]] All this began with the anti-Semitic manifestations of judapest and lice slides under labels, further anti-Gypsy outbursts, and then continued with vague corporate affairs, intimidated and abandoned Varroda workers and weapons abuse. Nevertheless, besides the rule of law, Gergely Christmas, who broke a spear, expressed her support in a video message instead of asking for judapest. The Fidesz-KDNP pointed out a number of questions to the candidate on the left, but he did not respond to any of them on the merits, but set the prospect of a lawsuit. But now we have a new situation. According to press reports, several documents confirm that László Bíró has withheld his employees' wages. They write about the appointment of a wage guaranteeor and refer to a number of official documents setting the amount of unpaid wages. How many people didn't get paid because of Judge's bad management? How many families have their livelihoods been compromised? That's enough of your bullshit. Let the Left confess that, despite his insufferable manifestations, he continues to support László Bíró! With respect to what has been said, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how to ensure the integrity of human dignity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give Mr. Balázs Orbán the opportunity to respond. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I, too, would like to express my sadness at the death of the Member. I think that, by the way, this sad thing is apt to praise his work, and that is one of the most important things, because he has done an excellent job in the region. I brought you some data from the Central Statistical Office regarding Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. In the first quarter, a new investment worth HUF 92 billion was made in this area, which is 37 percent more than the companies with at least 71 percent of the company's workforce of 50. The quarterly output volume of industrial enterprises with more than 4 employees has increased since 2017, the production value amounts to HUF 745 billion, while gross and net earnings, together with public employment, exceeded the value of 2019 by 8.8 percent. These few data I just told you, I think it shows that under Congressman Ferenc Koncz, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and this constituency were on the right track. I think that it is his daughter, Zsófia Koncz, who can ensure this continuity, all the more so, because if we look at what candidate of the left is against the candidate, then we can only see what you referred to: anti-Semitic, racist scandals, economic abuse. In fact, one promise or one commitment already made could not be formulated in the campaign that serves the people who live there. We're sad and sad, by the way, but we think the people of Borsodi will make the right decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-05-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is false that László Bíró talks about jobs, job creation, who, according to the news, instead of paying his own employees, has turned his 50 million forints of job protection into stromones' hands. Also, let us not forget that the candidate is behind Ferenc Gyurcsány, who previously closed the Sugar Factory Szerencsi, the business that provided everyday work and livelihoods to thousands of people in the district. With respect, I thank and accept the reply of Mr Secretary of State, but I cannot accept that, despite his insufferable manifestations, the left will continue to support László Bíró. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congresswoman! I can indeed confirm what you have said: we see that in this constituency, in this region, whether we are talking about Szerencs, Tiszaújváros or other smaller centers, there is no progress. This requires cooperation and work. It seems that this cooperation and work has been achieved in recent years. At the moment, when we look at the elections, we see that there is a candidate on the other side who, on the one hand, refuses to cooperate and, on the other hand, has not yet done any work for the constituency, and what you have done, as you said, is, unfortunately, rather depressing and shameful, if you had not done so. The choice and choice are for the people of Borsodi. I wish them good luck and good decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the representative of KDNP wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What did László Bíró's company receive HUF 50 million? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, was entitled to respond to his absence. Accordingly, it is for Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa to take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This Sunday, October 11th, in the 6th constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, a parliamentary election will be held. This is where the joint candidate for the left starts, László Bíró. He is no longer in the press with his candidacy plans copied from Zsófia Koncz, but with his scandals, his insufferable anti-Semitic statements and his economic abuses and lies. According to some news reports, Judge is promoting economic development in the campaign on his posters and flyers. He promises to invest in jobs and even boasts of earlier developments, which he had no part in, and even left-wing parties who supported him worked against developments. He's doing this after everything that's been revealed in the press about his own business. A few years ago, the NAV ordered the liquidation of László Bíró's company, the Hegyalja-Mix Cooperative, and Judge did not pay the employees of the seams belonging to the cooperative, according to the news and the reports of the stakeholders. Then, with the help of stromones, he was likely to break down the cooperative, and all of this by receiving state aid for the operation of his company, namely HUF 50 million. In the case, the seamstress who had been threatened by the joint candidate of the Left, but László Bíró denied everything and fled from the cameras. The Fidesz-KDNP government and us government party members here in Parliament are always responsible for protecting jobs and creating new ones. This is particularly the case today, during the pandemic, because what kind of work a Member would do in Parliament, who would imagine the economy in Hungary today, by overthrowing companies and reducing workers. For example, László Varju, Brenner Koloman or Zoltán Magyar assisted this candidate when they campaigned for him. And, fellow Members, what kind of political candidate would explain his anti-Semitic and racist thoughts with his hatred of his opponents? I ask Mr. Secretary of State what László Bíró's company received 50 million forints. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, László Bíró spoke only openly about his anti-Semitism when he clearly confessed his anti-Semitism views on Facebook. You've been talking a lot about the company's affairs lately, you've said a lot of things, and you've said the opposite of a lot of things. They are capable of completely questioning the fact that he can represent anyone, whatever decent people he is. I mean, who's the XX. This is the way he talks about one of the biggest historical disasters of the century, and who in the present is creating confusion and not helping them, but causing problems in paying their own wages, partly through state support, is not worthy of being a member of Parliament, although we remember those now left-wing Members who would have listed even Jewish politicians here in Parliament. Which means the company itself, László Bíró has made several statements. First, he denied that he had anything to do with the execution of the company, and then he was forced to back out of it because of the dates. On 14 June 2017, an irregularity report was issued as the beneficiary was subject to the compulsory cancellation procedure during the maintenance period. In July 2017, i.e. VII. According to the decision taken by the date of the 12th month, the support organisation withdrew from the contract and required recovery of the aid paid. That's the kind of candidate we're dealing with. [[16.10]] As the beneficiary organisation, in whose management the candidate of the left took part, submitted it by way of a cancellation procedure at the time of the decision, the EMMI also registered as a creditor at the Metropolitan Court on 24 July 2017, and this claim remains valid until today. We have seen the style of how he treated his employees; we have seen the lack of conscience as to how much he cared for them; and we see his complete insensitiveness in XX. Company's largest [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the face of its historic disaster; and we see the blindness of the entire left, that they are all lined up behind such a man. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, please.
u2020-10-05-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary of State. It is clear that László Bíró is not only anti-Semitic, but still enjoys the full support of the left: the Dialogue, the Gyurcsány Party, the Socialists, the LMP, Momentum and Jobbik are also in a competition to support and self-defeat the social media, thus eliminating that red line. László Varju can campaign for an anti-Semitic candidate. I'm sure the voters in Újpest will ask you why you did this, and how you think that you left parties are campaigning for an anti-Semitic, racist candidate, and I would like to send him to Parliament. On 11 October, I hope that the electorate from Borsodi, Mountains and Tatta will give a sharp answer to this aggression and this lack of faith that we will experience all over the left, and these selfies will be embarrassed later by László Varju or Brenner Koloman. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is also talkative who László Bíró passed on his company, with or without a responsible decision: to a man who has already put nine companies in the ground; to a man who is currently banned from running the company. Obviously, in a tighter environment, someone has news if he's only been asked to be the last company manager, and he's been transferred to someone like this. Today, here in Parliament, the left spoke about giving people basic income without work, while their own candidate, behind whom everyone is lining up, is threatening even in the case of income earned by work, and we have even seen that in some respects it hindered them from obtaining the income they deserve and partly paid through state aid. Well, how do you talk about a jobless basic income that we obviously have philosophical opposition to, when you're standing behind practically a candidate who's just creating obstacles to the payment of income from work, state aid, but only causes problems? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we heard threats from him? What kind of man is he? What kind of people are you to support him? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: how credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, honourable Member, he has appointed Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary for his reply. Mr Zoltán Magyar is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-10-05-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. What's going on at the western border? How can you afford this brutal urination here in the middle of the pandemic? We can ask the question, but this question is poetic, because we know the answer: Hungarian taxpayers are at the end of the check. Lajta-Hanság Zrt. it used to be a state agricultural company, which you privatized, and through several steps that, no, it ended up with Lőrinc Mészáros. It seems that Lőrinc Mészáros and the agricultural companies associated with it recently want to make great progress in the hunt, and on the banks of the Lake of Krisztinaberek in the beautiful natural environment, in the North Hanság, a six-acre hunting complex was erected in no time, really almost magically, from the ground, receiving all sorts of extra permissions for this in a matter of moments. This luxury complex, by the way, belongs to a lot of people who want to come by helicopter. It consists of untraceable rooms, and some 25,000 acres of good big game hunting ground are included. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: László Bíró also hunts...]] They set up a five-mile asphalt road from Highway 86. As a matter of interest, some of the families here have been begging for a viable path for decades, and they have not been given so far. It is also interesting that this road was built by László Szíyi's company, the Danube Asphalt, which is famous for having the Fidesz elite yachted on the Adriatic. According to press reports, all this complex was created from 1500 million forints. And then perhaps another argument in favour of the Ripper tax is my speech, which you have rejected, and with which we have envisaged that, once someone has been a favor to you for decades, you should at least return some tax dollars to the community in such a difficult situation. So I'm asking you, how does the government feel about this urination? Were you or the Ministry involved, or was there someone in the government? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The grand opening ceremony that was held in the middle of the deer cry? [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-10-05-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I'm embarrassed because I don't know what your style is. You in Jobbik may have the fashion to distinguish certain industries, economic operators and entrepreneurs on a political basis, to list and, where appropriate, to link negative legal consequences to their political affiliation. We don't do that. We do not decide on economic recovery and job creation or job conservation activities on a political basis. [[Noise and interruptions from Jobbik's benches, among other things: Oh!]] It is based on what is good for Hungarian people, and it has been a successful policy since 2010. Look at the employment records. Look at the figures for real wage and average wage increases. Look at the data on economic growth. And if we are in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic here, then I think that perhaps we can only get to a national minimum and agree that we should not distinguish between different entrepreneurs here on a political basis, but that everyone who wants to invest in this difficult situation wants to create jobs or retain existing jobs is entitled to state aid. And if you look at the statistics on this, we have been sitting here in Parliament for weeks, and we list only these statistics on your questions, it seems that everyone who has applied for job creation or job protection support regardless of their political affiliation has received it, and anyone who can formulate a sensible plan in Hungary from which economic growth will be eligible for funding. We want to maintain this, and we do not want to bring back the system that you are proposing, where political ideology is the basis for deciding on such different subsidies. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-05-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Magyar, please.
u2020-10-05-165	That was talkative, Mr. Secretary. According to you, it is in the interest of the Hungarian people to privatise a public company producing HUF 4.6 billion a year. You believe that the interests of the Hungarian people and the success of the Hungarian people are that Lőrinc Mészáros has accidentally become the richest man in the country. In your opinion, it is natural that Hungarian citizens who have been fishing there for decades now try to keep them away from this lake with a fee of HUF 22,000 a day. You think it's normal for me to point out on the road one more time that I'm approaching this property on the road, and they're sending me security guards so that I can't even accidentally, from the road, see the luxury vehicles with which you inaugurated this hunting complex. So you think it's normal that, contrary to previous plans, when this region was supposed to be Mosonmagyaróvár's lungs, it has now become practically a playground for the Fidesz elite. You think it's normal that we don't have children's camps in this area anymore, that we don't do forest schools anymore, but you hunt exclusively. I reject this, and I think that this is not in the interests of the Hungarian people at all, it is only in the interests of Fidesz, what is happening here. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]] [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz takes his place as notary.]]
u2020-10-05-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go. [[16.20]]
u2020-10-05-167	Congressman, thank God, I am not in a position to advise Jobbik's parliamentary representative or faction, but it does not seem to be a good and viable political strategy that you are making speeches in which millions of people and tens of thousands of businesses are violated. It has done so over the last few minutes, because the subsidies and the systems and the help you have been critical of have served to keep and protect millions of people's jobs, and it has helped tens of thousands of entrepreneurs in this difficult situation that we all experience in the context of the coronal virus epidemic. I don't think it's good. I don't think it's good that you're attacking these decisions like this. And by the way, if you're experiencing any kind of lawlessness in connection with anything, because everyone has to comply with the laws, then you should contact the competent authorities. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In this context, we can support your efforts, if any. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-10-05-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! MEP László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: instead of making promises, help the pensioners immediately! It's an address. Mr President, because of the absence of Prime Minister, Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who gave Mr Balázs Orbán the right to reply. [[For signal:]] Here you go. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2020-10-05-169	Thank you very much. Now that the representatives of the Nacsa Party have left the room and the Judge-Lying Generator can be rolled down, I can safely say that if you want to know what will happen in Újpesten, then I can tell you that people will unite and realize that then Fidesz will be freed and voted off, even because you will find that there is no country on the whole continent where there would have been such a great price in a few months as it was in Hungary. The record record is a weak forint record with high inflation, which means that the same thing has to be paid up to thousands more forints. As a result of their unscrupulous policies, bread, meat, milk, sugar are more expensive, and I could tell you more. As a result of their insensibility, hundreds of thousands of pensioners face the fact that they are not getting out of retirement. You make promises. They don't give you any money, they just give you vague promises that you'll get a 13th month pension, and then next year, and then several steps, and then over the years, and then sometime, maybe, and maybe. Mr. Secretary, when you come home hungry or enter a luxury restaurant on several occasions, are you told that there will be a big feast next year, and until then, you must endure it? ! Do you live well with some fresh, crunchy promises on a lying bed with a gang bang, Mr. Secretary of State? ! It's just that you have such cynical, unconventional promises. Isn't the pension enough because of the food prices that got out of control? It'll be better next year. There'll be a 53rd week pension. No, of course, not right now, not now, sometime, sometime next year. Secretary of State, I'm asking you on behalf of all pensioners, and I'm asking you to stop your unparalleled lies and give $50,000 in help to all pensioners, because that's what they deserve. Thank you very much. [[Anett's clapping.]]
u2020-10-05-170	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Balázs Orbán did not even speak, so I now give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I've been thinking about how psychology calls the concept or the feeling I felt when I heard your speech. I think it's called a secondary sense of shame. You were talking about pensioners, you were talking about protecting pensioners, while between 2002 and 2010, you and your party and your government were in a government position, and in this way you were directly responsible for pensioners. The balance of this period is that the 13th month pension was taken from 2.4 million pensioners, and the real value of pensions during this period, Member, was not stagnant and unfortunately did not increase but decreased by 4 percent. We, on the other hand, concluded an agreement with pensioners in 2010: while there is a national government in Hungary, we guarantee the purchasing value of pensions. The last few years have proven that you can't question how we kept our word. The real value of pensions has increased by 10 percent since 2010, and the 13th month pension you have taken is also planned to be returned. From February 2021, we will gradually rebuild the 13th month pension by giving pensioners an extra week's pension in addition to the January pension. We do not think that from now on sausage will become the fence, but we think that you, in relation to the purchasing value of pensions and raising pensions, do not have any credibility or leeway or opportunity to speak, other than to cause a secondary sense of shame. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-173	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I'm sure you don't need my advice, but if you have a primary sense of shame, then it is entirely justified if you think so, even if you were a government that accepts European standards, then you would have answered my question clearly, yes, we will help you, we have heard the pensioners cry for help, we will apologize for the delay, and you will give them an immediate HUF 50,000 help. This is the only acceptable answer to my question, but instead, you continued to brawl, bullshit, deny the Hungarians who worked their lives and do not help them. Mr. Secretary. We have a crisis now, we need to help them now, we need to give the pensioners an immediate 50 thousand forints of help. So your answer is unacceptable, and I don't want a vote on it. Thank you.
u2020-10-05-174	Congressman, I assure you that there will be no vote, because this genre does not have voting content, so the word goes back to Secretary Balázs Orbán for a minute.
u2020-10-05-175	Ouch! I'm sorry, Congressman, this is getting worse. In order to come into Parliament and tell you these things, you don't need a set to do that. This is a serious place where, I've always thought, serious people talk about serious things for the good of the country. With these two speeches, you have discredited the entire Parliament, not the right-wing Members, not the government, but the entire Parliament! I'm sorry, you have no idea what the procedure is here. Your colleagues forgot to rewrite the background paper on what event you're at. The fact is, Congressman, you have taken away the 13th month's pension, while your governance has reduced the real value of pensions, and we are giving back the 13th month's pension, and, under our administration, pensions are growing in real value. We protect the pensioners, and you rip them off. So find the event, and next time, I'd like to ask you to speak up after this. [[László Varju: Will they give 50,000 forints to pensioners or not?]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-05-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. How can the purity of local public life be restored? It's an address. Honourable Member, Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Minister of State to answer his absence. [[For signal:]] Mr László Böröcz has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Since last year, there hasn't been anyone in this country who hasn't heard of Csaba Lackner, or Mr. 40 percent. Yeah, he's the MSZP politician in Kispest whose financial situation is unusual compared to an average municipal representative. Hundred million-dollar properties, luxury watches, hundreds of thousands of parties a month, white dust bags. And he felt that he had such influence at the local level that if any of this was ventilated, it would affect not only the municipal elections but also his party. The scandal, however, continues to swell. Over a week ago, the local driver of the left came forward, who can justify the existence of corruption cases in the Lackner-Kranitz-Gajda triangle and the underworld operations of the Kippest left. He himself attended numerous parties with the Lackners, who were a user of drugs, who hosted consum girls, and insists that the recordings were not manipulated. It is worrying that the settlement of the payback money at such parties took place with the knowledge and participation of Péter Gajda, Mayor of MSZP. What is even more outrageous is the fact that there is no consequence of the case among the left, which shines like a leader in the rule of law. One of the key figures in the case, Krisztián Kranitz, known as Krinyo, is still at the head of the trust in Kispest. Lackner is still in office. Why does Peter Gajda not move them from their place? Is he being held in check with something? However, the ORFK has informed us that this case is being investigated for the adoption of bribery and suspicions of other crimes against an unknown unsub. [[16.30]] Interestingly, there is a marked silence on the left, which breaks a spear in addition to democracy and truth. Gyurcsány, Christmas, MSZP and all the other small parties are silent and there are no consequences again. They're just stuttering, and there's a concern that they won't recognize their own partymates on the tapes. While Gergely Christmas also suspects a crime, Peter Gajda takes it only as an attack on his person. They didn't ask, because Lackner runs away from the press, while Kranitz simply ignores the speed limit and simply drives past them.
u2020-10-05-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're halfway through the time frame. [[László Böröcz: Excuse me.]] State Secretary Balázs Orbán responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-05-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government's position is clear: the settlements, whether they are oppositionists or pro-government, must develop, and we believe that the representatives of the local government are sent there by voters to be the engines of this development, not to use the responsibility and power there to increase their own welfare. It is a cause for concern, and it is disappointing that, as in the case of László Bíró, Csaba Lackner is silent on the left. The Left of Kispest first presented the proposal at the last meeting of the Board of Representatives, and then voted against the proposal which would have relieved Krisztián Kranitz, the head of the district trustee, who was suspected of corruption, of his office with immediate effect. For the sake of the Parliamentary Protocol, I would like to mention once again that the majority of the body of representatives managed by Péter Gajda did not vote for the extension of the mandate of the committee investigating corruption cases. So the situation is that first a committee was set up, which then justified the suspicion of corruption, and then voted against the report of this committee and ended this committee. I think that, from now on, everyone involved in this will have a political, joint and several responsibility. And by the way, I see there's an investigation going on, the authorities are doing their job. I hope that the truth will soon be unmistakably revealed. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-10-05-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry about the delay earlier. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The truth is that it is extremely unpleasant that the municipality, which is supposed to protect the interests of the local people, does not seek to protect the local people, but is, in fact, a wall for Csaba Lackner, because the mayor now suddenly recognized Csaba Lackner on the tapes. He couldn't do that for more than six months, by the way. In fact, the entire party leadership might have been there because the local investigation didn't find anything to object on the basis of the footage, and it didn't find any problematic details in this case that should have been examined before the investigation was initiated, since it was clear that it was Csaba Lackner, and since then one of the people involved in the recordings, who actually confirmed what was said there. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-10-05-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-183	Thank you very much. Following last year's municipal elections, the fear began that left-wing representatives came to power in Budapest, on the one hand in Budapest, and on the other hand in some districts, in fact, in order to bring back the policy making and policy operation common in the Demszky era. Unfortunately, the last year has not denied it, but rather confirmed our concerns on the contrary. From the government side, I can tell you that we're cooperating with everyone who wants to do something for the good of the settlement. We ask the authorities to take action against those who do not do so with the greatest rigour of the law. I very much hope that we can finally distinguish between these two categories. I've never been able to do that before in Kispesten. Let's hope it's different after this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-10-05-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of Parliament, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Knowledge is power? It's an address. Mr Vice-President, because of the absence of Minister Tamás Schanda has given him the right to reply. Vice President Brenner Koloman has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-10-05-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Is my mike working?
u2020-10-05-186	It's working now. Please adjust the time. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-10-05-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the Middle Ages, the university has been a phenomenon in Europe, the most important feature of which is that it has always been autonomous, symbolizing independence, intellectual independence and international openness. This has been the case since the first university was founded in Europe. Let us look at what has happened in the last ten years and in the last thirty years, because the OECD has examined higher education autonomy on the basis of eight aspects, and unfortunately we have to say that in the last thirty years, almost all areas since the regime change, the indicators of Hungarian universities have deteriorated. Let us therefore look at the latest fruits of Fidesz's anti-science and intellectual policy. I'm quoting the fruit of the. The Secretary of State for the sake of another Secretary of State's colleague, then the Ministry reached out to the applications previously selected by the professional jury. It has been said that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences can maintain its own brand, compared to this a good Bolshevik party, we have recently heard that the name of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences will have to be introduced from everywhere into the new research network. Let's face it, the marketisation, which always comes up in the context of the Curatorial Reserved Universities, fits into the neoliberal policy of the last thirty years, which thinks that the university student who will finish is a screw from a screw factory. No, my fellow Members, the world is much more complicated than that. So how long will Fidesz continue this anti-knowledge and intellectual policy? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-05-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-05-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that he has touched on a number of issues that are far from time to time to answer an immediate question, but I am still trying. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are working with a party and parties that wanted to make Hungarian higher education pay. You are working to get that Ferenc Gyurcsány to power, and you are working together with them, which is why you are fighting every day, which is why you are speaking here in the Parliament, and that is why you are going to campaign, so that there is a majority in the Parliament that stands behind Ferenc Gyurcsány's back. This majority, if it were; we hope that it will never be like this in the history of the Hungarian nation, would make Hungarian higher education pay again, as they have already tried to do during the failed governance of the left. But it was also Ferenc Gyurcsány who wanted to plow the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Congressman, you're with these people, these parties. Despite the fact that many things have been raised in your question, allow me to briefly address some of them. On the one hand, the aim of the higher education model change is clear and clear. We want Hungarian higher education institutions, although they gain improved rankings on different international rankings, to do so much faster and more effectively, and to be able to fulfil their own mission and participate in research and development processes that are important for the local economy, so that Hungarian higher education institutions can truly become the centre of innovation, research and development and economic development. That's what we want, and that's why we find it outrageous that you have repeatedly said no to this. Several times they said no to creating a better quality, more successful and more effective Hungarian higher education system in Hungary. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-10-05-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Vice President Brenner Koloman. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. [[16.40]]
u2020-10-05-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You're working every day for those hotties in tube pants who question what a archives are for and ask for a half-page report on it. You work for those who share the billion for research in a semi-spoken justification. Are you not ashamed, Mr. Secretary, that you will then stand up and refer to Ferenc Gyurcsány, while the EPP Jobbik stands by the autonomy of universities as a purely decent conservative party, as former university leader? Are you really not ashamed?In addition, let's face it, the University of Theatre shows as a veterinary horse that the translation of your Curatorium did not mean what you refer to here, that we will make higher education flourish, but that military officers will be sent there to chancellor, and that, in addition, the autonomy of the university will be trampled in absolute illegal and unconstitutionally, as the Board appoints the Rector and the Vice-Rectors. This was the last time in Bolshevik times. Shame on you! [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-10-05-192	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I understand that it may be difficult for you to deal with the fact that you work every day to gain power from the left, but, honourable Member, that is the bitter truth. That's the first sentence. The second sentence is that the process of changing models in Hungarian higher education was a long-planned strategic goal. For many higher education institutions, we see that this could be done without problems, without internal professional conflicts. There is only one place where this created an internal professional conflict. Three, it's clear and clear that when you attack the board, you attack famous artists. He attacks the Béla Balázs Award-winning Tamás Lajos, attacks Attila Vidnyánszky, whose merits can be talked about and attacks all those who have played a role in this. Mr. Congressman, don't do this. My request is to support Hungarian higher education and to increase the quality of Hungarian higher education. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-05-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the immediate questions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with a debate on a Commission report. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as possible, only the next speaker and the two persons who are waiting to be heard will be present in the Chamber. Discussions can be followed by an internal television transmission system for all. The names of the following three Members shall be communicated by the chairman at the end of each speech. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2019 XCV on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2020. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/12869. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all of us. Dear Parliament, I am now going to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: No.]] He does not wish to speak, so he will have a 15-minute time frame. Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. No rapporteur was set up by the designated Cultural Committee. Thus, the speeches by the Members are now taking place in the time frame on which the agenda is set. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak at the time frame on the board. [[Anett and László Varju reporting.]] Yes, from the DK Group, Mrs Bősz Anett has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congresswoman. Ladies, Congressman Varju, they always have priority. Here you go.
u2020-10-05-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I must tell you that as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I would have liked to have listened to President Monika Karas on behalf of the NMHH two weeks ago, but the President decided differently, and she was replaced by two civil servants in the Commission debate, who replied in order that they were not in a position to answer political questions and suggestions. However, the proposal before us is not just about how much the public media budget is increasing, but is basically about principles and practical problems. It is about the fact that NMHH and MTVA do not ensure equal treatment and equal dignity, even though the public service, as its name says, is the public service, not the government's service. In many cases, we have seen that neither NMHH nor MTVA are capable of serving this country in substance or its own Fundamental Law. We have seen several times that, following violations of various social groups, the NMHH has not acted, hundreds of billions of taxpayers go by every year to lie to us about what is happening in our own country. I would like to give some examples of the fact that this monster, which, by the way, did not pass the last EU rule of law inquiry, and the European Union mentioned as a point of injury to one of our states of law, at what points it violates our rights and freedom of the media. They supported the creation of KESMA, but did not allow the fusion of RTL and Central Media. Our fellow opposition Democrat politicians have been wrongly punished, but every time the Prime Minister makes an exclusionary remark, there is no legal consequence. Finally, I would like to say so much, and my fellow Member, László Varju, will talk more about this, that we have seen the volition in the allocation of frequencies. I think that much more does not fit into this time frame, but it is very bad to see that, when it comes to such sums, and when such a socio-economic crisis has been unleashed by the corona virus, when such an envelope is released, it is not at the committee meeting to say that I intend to be in crisis management, but to increase the public media budget further, it is quite outrageous. Thank you for listening.
u2020-10-05-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-05-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, There is not much more of us than when we debated within the walls of Parliament. I wouldn't really want to comment on this amendment. We are talking about HUF 103 billion, that from now on we can spend HUF 103 billion on public media in 2020. We are talking about a quite brutal amount of money compared to the fact that before 2010, this body operated from just a few tens or a few billion forints. My previous colleague, Mr Anett Bősz, has already said what we had to say in the debate about what is wrong with us overall. I also said in the debate in Parliament that this amendment came before the House, this extra HUF 10 billion, although we are talking twice about HUF 10 billion, when the frequency of Klubradio is now being removed, is now being taken away from it. Before that, of course, we could talk about the Index, the People's Freedom and many media that have been abolished in recent years. Of course, we could ask how balance and public representation have been achieved in recent years because we are talking about public media. We could also ask when opposition representatives last visited MTVA headquarters. I guess we can talk about December 2018, the last time we were there, it wasn't an invitation. In essence, when we are talking about a budget of HUF 103 billion out of public media taxpayers' money, we could at least get to the point where they meet some minimum conditions from what my fellow Member has said that things set out in the Fundamental Law should be implemented by this body and by the public media itself. It's getting worse. I have to say that every year we can report a worse and worse situation. [[16.50]] Unfortunately, I can only join in and what I said in Parliament's debate that it is not certain that this is the most important at this time, when we are talking about a crisis and an epidemic situation, the situation is getting worse every day, and even Viktor Orbán himself is not hiding that he is preparing for a completely, horribly wrong scenario. As I understand it, he told Parliament two weeks ago that there could be 200,000 diseases, although he said that he could reach 400,000 in Hungary; he outlined a completely terrifying scenario here in Parliament. And I wouldn't think that Parliament would have to decide, even if it was required by law, because we always refer to it as an extra 10 billion forints in public media to raise its budget. There are more important things, but this is what we have seen during the emergency period, that hundreds of billions of forints have been spent from the budget, which I think could have been used for much more important things: either to help people in the health and social sphere or to save the economy or to save entrepreneurs. We could list a million items that would have a much better place for these tax forints. So I think we should still think about it at the last minute for pro-government politicians. We know this is impossible, but I don't think it's gonna happen, but I think it would be a much better place to just say that we're gonna start testing those vulnerable groups, like teachers working in educational institutions, social workers, or children who are exposed to infection every day. I also said in the debate that we are talking about the price of about 500,000 tests, that half a million people could be tested with this amount. I am very sorry that the government is still more important to support its own propaganda. We understand why, but I think that the protection of Hungarian people is more important than anything else. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-05-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-05-199	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would like to continue to express the concern of my fellow oppositionists and the ideas that we have been able to do at the committee meeting on several occasions in plenary, anyway. However, I would like to do this in summary to make this clear when adopting the Commission report. I can summarize that in three words. One is insensitiveness, the second is insolence, and the third is the bounty that you pay for what you do through the media authority. Let's look at the insensitiveness. Their insensitiveness is evident in the fact that they have developed a system that creates a special situation, either in the news service or in the parliamentary budget or in the procedural system of the operation and supervision of media. Several committees discuss it several times, but otherwise no meaningful answers are given anywhere, and here we know that the government has not fled from here, but you do not want to participate in the debate of this law. He's trying to stay away from this while otherwise operating a propagandaistry, where the budget there spends ten billion extra dollars on various activities. Because of the lack of answers, there is therefore still a part of the degree of insensitiveness that this is coordinated in operation and activity, and thirdly, however we look at it, the freedom of the press does not prevail in Hungary, as a result of the operation of this organization. But since you have heard this on several occasions, I would like to say sorry to those three pro-government fellow Members, four of us; I apologise, five of us, five of my fellow Members, to ask you, with respect, in the vote tomorrow, not to support it. As a Democrat, such a law cannot be supported as long as the practice is available, or what happens is that political forces have the opportunity to speak in a truly community television instead of a television that has become a party state. Freedom of the press has been slapped in the face, and you are contributing to that. As a Democrat, do not do this and do not support the adoption of this report. Insolence. I told you, that's the second word about 20,000 million forints added to the existing budget. This is an unprecedented amount which, I think, cannot be justified in any way, not only because of the economic situation, but also because there is no need to support government policy in this way, and otherwise, as an election fraud, to create a situation against the opportunities of the opposition that is otherwise unacceptable, no one in a European country does, and I think that you should not do so either. As Democrats, you cannot support this solution. And the third is the bounty behind it, or the price is there. You're shutting down Klubradio, too, after the other media, which, in recent times, must be on their conscience. I respectfully ask you and I demand that you, as democrats, do not contribute to this. Objection, because there are a number of questions that I think you might be able to ask. Please reconsider: do not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Your time frame is 15 minutes, please.
u2020-10-05-201	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you so much for the opportunity. Once again, it has to be said that we are in a strange situation, since the NMHH does not have a parliamentary legal capacity, therefore the Committee on Budgets, who is the author of this bill today. The strange thing was that the chairman of the Committee on Budgets was one of the most opposed to this story, and another member of the Committee on Budgets spoke today. However, we should practically say what happened at the Committee on Culture, which held the detailed debate, that there was not a single amendment, and when the Member asked about it, and the Member, Mr President, asked the present members of the NMHH, which is not closely or even closely related to the bill, they obviously rightly said that, because they are not politicians, they cannot answer these questions in connection with their status as civil servants. The main aim of this proposal is to adapt the NMHH budget to the changed situation. The Film Fund has ceased, the budget arrangement of this is being implemented in this Act; and the NMHH provides MTVA with development opportunities that will enable primarily wage developments and technical developments at MTVA. There is nothing in this law about Clubradio, media freedom, freedom of the press, it is a technical bill. I would also ask that my fellow Members assess this proposal accordingly and, if possible, support it with their vote in tomorrow's vote. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2020-10-05-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP, applied for a speech on the agenda entitled '24 Pécs'. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[17.00]]
u2020-10-05-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, I would like to talk here about the important problem that has existed for a very, very long time in my speech after the agenda concerning my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya. We know that the authorities are searching for the possible location of a so-called nuclear cemetery a few kilometres from the western border of Pécs, so according to the documents and programs currently adopted, there is planned to be a nuclear cemetery, an object that has never been built anywhere in the world. So a facility for the final disposal of high-activity nuclear waste has not yet been opened anywhere in the world. We can say that the government is practically ignoring the clear decision adopted by the city of Pécs last year, in which it stated that it cannot accept the establishment of such a nuclear facility near the city. We must also say every time that the two parliamentary representatives of the region concerned, Péter Hoppál and Csaba Nagy, virtually betray their constituency after serving the government's purpose in a servitude. We have been debating the use of nuclear energy in Parliament for a very, very long time. We have always said that nuclear energy is not green, it is not cheap and it cannot be considered safe in any way. The fact that it is not green can be seen very quickly if we look at the brutal environmental destruction of uranium mining. We see that in Pécs, in the area of Kővásőszőlős, there has been previously uranium mining activity, and this has resulted in brutal environmental destruction, the effects of which can never be removed. Tens of billions of forints have already been spent on environmental protection, recultivation tasks. This is a never-ending task, which consumes public money, but it will not be possible to restore this extremely seriously damaged natural area to its original state. On the other hand, it is also clear that it could not be anywhere in the world, that they could not solve the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste, that neither technology nor funding are available, and the choice of locations is a problem everywhere in the world. In Hungary, they have been researching the Boda region from 2013 in the Bodai Claykő Formation with greater intensity after the completion of the small and medium-activity storage area in Bátaapáti, and since then there have been virtually continuous protests. In 2015, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally promised that this nuclear cemetery would not be possible without the approval of the people living in Pécs and its region. This Prime Minister's promise proved to be a lie, since then no one has asked the people in Pécs or the people in the region to contribute to the creation of such an object. As I have already said, the municipality of Pécs said in a clear decision last year that he would not tolerate it and could not accept it. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Previously, promises were made that a research phase would end in 2018, and then the situation could be re-evaluated, the locals could be asked and decisions could be made on the selection of alternative sites. Well, on the other hand, this has been cancelled again, and in the spring of 2019 this project was granted a so-called site research permit, and since then it has been pouring billions into this project. Now, in recent days, we have learned that, under a public procurement procedure, a Polish company has been assigned a billion-dollar mandate to carry out explosive earthquake research in the region, and I would like to say that no one has yet asked the people who live there. The Parliament is also making a failure in relation to a previous decision, as the national programme for the management of radioactive waste adopted five years ago should have been brought before the Parliament this year and reviewed. This national programme states that such a deep geological repository must be established, and that programme includes a research site, a particular Bodai Claystone Formation, because at the time the huge error was made by the authorities that the social and economic features had not been taken into account, so they did not take into account the fact that this site was located in the immediate vicinity of a rural metropolitan agglomeration. Nowhere in the world is there any example of such an object being so close to such a big city. It is therefore a very clear task that this programme for the management of certain nuclear waste must be brought to Parliament quickly, even now, in the autumn session, and the clear fact recognised by the Director-General of the National Atomic Energy Office, that the opposition of the region can be detected, felt and already expressed in a municipal decision. So because of the social and economic features, this area is simply not suitable, regardless of the technical and geological geophysical characteristics. So the task is to re-rank the existing potential areas available in Hungary, taking into account social and economic factors, and accordingly, the Parliament has to make a decision to entrust professionals with research into alternative sites where, under technical and geological conditions, it can meet social and economic conditions. This is our task, which is why we all work as Members of Parliament, and we also expect the pro-government representatives of the region to follow this path and follow that path themselves. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-204	Thank you very much, Mr. László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, Erik Fülöp, an independent Member, applied for a post-meeting speech. When will the Government punish the animals in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I myself, in this wonderful room, have repeatedly drawn the attention of the government and opposition representatives to the fact that, unfortunately, Hungarian animal protection is in ruins, and that Hungarian animal protection in ruins could be rebuilt along four pillars, in which I not only offered my help several times, but also hundreds of civil society organisations and tens of thousands of enthusiastic activists, animal-friendly, animal-loving activists. These four pillars to rebuild animal protection would be the following. On the one hand, the immediate establishment of the animal police and the tightening of legislation could prevent the production, production, production, and, on the other hand, brutal animal killers who have committed various atrocities against animals, by propagating animals in terrible circumstances, on virtually a form of conveyor belt. Another pillar in which animal protection can also be rebuilt is residential education, residential education, which could already be started in primary school and kindergarten. It would also be a very important pillar to help the work of various animal welfare organisations and civil society organisations, in particular to provide substantial support to these organisations financially. And in the fourth row, by launching the national neutering action, the stopping of unwanted animal growth. I think that not only me, but also those tens of thousands of enthusiastic activists and civil society members have drawn attention to this on a number of occasions, and I think that we have just come to the point where the government has seen that it must now deal with this animal protection lying in ruins. I welcome personally, and I think that all animal-loving and all animal-loving people welcome the government's decision to appoint a Minister for Animal Protection in the person of our fellow Member Péter Ovádi. I wish him every success and success from here too, because I see hundreds of thousands of people who love animals hoping and hoping that Peter, the Minister of Ministers, will be effective and effective in the field of animal protection. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that not only should all animal-friendly representatives here in Parliament think together along these four pillars, involving civil society organisations, but also by creating strong and strict legislation should prevent the occurrence of cases that Karcagon has already seen last week. I think it was upsetting for all the good people that the police managed to catch a propagating animal who cut through the vocal cords of about 150 dogs. These silent dogs were seized by the police and, of course, prosecuted against this brutal propagating of animals, who justified this action by thinking that if the dogs barked, the bred puppies he bred were barking, it would disturb the neighbors, and all his dirty tricks would be revealed. I think that together, together, by offering my partner assistance and the partner assistance of these civil society organisations, it would be possible to hold all such inhumane propagating animals and all such animal killers hard. I would also like to stress that the government has to take action, and it has to allocate a significant budget for animal protection. It is absolutely amazing and shocking that, in the context of this year's and next year's budget law, the state has allocated HUF 24 billion to central communication, and the protection of animals is almost penniless, with a few million forints. Once again, I would like to stress that we are very confident that we wish you success in the work of the Commissioner for Ministers, and, of course, we are providing a helping hand as partners. They can always count on us animalists and animal-loving people, but we will not allow them: we demand the immediate establishment of the animal police and, of course, that the animal killers, the various propagating animals, are punished and the murderers are sentenced to prison. Thank you very much. [[17.10]]
u2020-10-05-206	Thank you very much, Congressman Philip. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, applied for a post-meeting speech. The government helicopter manager promised the Debrecen company that the BMW factory would only slide for a few months. There is no factory, but instead there is dust with the title "Horriable Property Prices." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Our pro-government representatives and even members of the government probably don't remember any more, but as Debrecen and as one of the 200,000 citizens of Debrecen, I really do. Helicopters were coming and going, government delegations were running, fanfares were speaking, and a few months ago, in the midst of enormous appearances, one of the largest European car manufacturers in Debrecen was going to build a factory. Not only the city, but one of the best land and land in the country has been destroyed because of this, we are talking about 400 hectares. The city took significant credit for these preparatory works, but the state also supported the construction with more than HUF 200 billion. We asked the authorities carefully last year that there was nothing wrong here, because we heard that there was no good news coming from the European car industry, everyone said that there was nothing wrong here, that there was nothing to be afraid of, that there was nothing to be afraid of. At the beginning of the year, however, worrying news has risen, and German car companies have shown recessional conditions, which have been deepened even further by the Covid outbreak in the spring. Germany's leaders have already confirmed the deepening of the economic indicators of car manufacturers and announced that, as a result, European car manufacturers are likely to reduce the volume of investments, in many cases even to zero. As a citizen of Debrecen, the government voices, the propaganda door, the city leaders, but also at the government level, the honest situation finding was repeated instead of admitting the victory reports known from the Orbán course to boredom. First, it means that everything that went up in the German press and the construction of the BMW factory in Debrecen won't slip a second. Then it is possible that there may be some delays in the timing of the investment, but this could mean up to a few weeks and months. Then, perhaps in view of the seriousness of the situation, it was Péter Szijjártó himself, who admitted at his press conference this spring on the future site of the factory that the investment in the 400-acre area could indeed be delayed for a few months, and, as he said, otherwise it cannot be a question of whether or not to start the construction of the BMW plant. I don't know whether it's a question for Péter Szijjártó or not, or whether it's a question for any of the members of the government, because I can see that the members of the Plebejus government are so busy, otherwise they can slowly walk home with a luxury helicopter and use the billion-dollar luxury yacht of the buddy oligarchs for simplicity. In Debrecen, however, all we can see from this is that on the best, most valuable 400 hectares in the country, the soil was pulled out of the farmers, literally. We see that, in principle, an elitist public institution, a public school that looks like a private school, costing the Debrecen people hundreds of millions of forints a year for the management of the future. A school where families in Debrecen, workers in Debrecen, cannot enroll their children for millions of dollars a year. However, the alibi scholarship system of the Fidesz city administration is not at all suitable for funding the schooling of students in Debrecen. One of those, XXI. I am talking about a hundredth-century school, where only a few dozen children of a billion-dollar and politicians who are connected to Fidesz cannot be found with a magnifying glass even for children of foreign students or working families in Debrecen. We Debrecen see nothing of the thousands of jobs created by the factory, promised by the big breast, nor of the fact that this will permanently put our city on the map of Europe. I just want to tell Peter Szijjártó that the promised six months have passed. Peter Szijjártó's promise is nothing but empty chatter. There is no evidence that any work in the future factory will be restarted even this year. There is no such trace, otherwise, that my friends working on the investment also say that they have begun wintering the area, suggesting that there will be no fresh start to this investment now, in the coming months. In order to announce the construction of the factory, the already not low real estate prices have skyrocketed, and so a young start-up or home-creating family in Debrecen is almost unable to obtain not only their own apartment today, but not even their rental. As a result of the project planned for the northwest of the city, the wind regularly blows dust into the city from 400 hectares of land deprived of its production. The government helicopter manager promised the Debrecen people that the construction of the BMW plant in Debrecen would only be delayed for a few months, no factory, and instead there is dust, and the property prices are very volatile. Thank you very much for Peter Szijjártó's new lie. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2020-10-05-208	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. The speaker after the next agenda is László Varju, a representative of DK, who is working in Jászberény, or why is Fidesz not supporting the economy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to show you, through an example, that the system of national cooperation or the system of national robbery together is only a question of how to translate it for you. It could also be seen as an investigation of what I am talking about, but I think that we have or can draw lessons from this which can be taught not only in Jászberény, but also elsewhere. In addition to the lessons learned, this brief summary also gives us the opportunity to review a particular case, for example, here in this case, through the depraved municipal building in Jászberény, which they have attempted to turn into a worker's hostel, but this has failed. Before the municipal elections, Jászberény won a Hungarian source for this purpose on the enthusiastic initiative of the local Fidesz. As a Contracting Party, a serious local partner has also been activated, who has undertaken to operate the hotel in such a way that the investment is still economically profitable to the city. The body of representatives voted and spent tens of millions of forints on preparing it. However, after the elections, the dice turned, and the local representatives of Fidesz changed their minds and suddenly opposed their earlier presentation. The damage to the project is not only the loss of money for the preparation of the project, the city also has to pay back to the central cash register, which has already been received for this purpose. The crumbling building, however, remained as a memento of our crumbling existence. Her condition and message are untenable. So I ask the question: is it an individual case, or do we have to say that it is rather a common practice that, where Fidesz has no interest in it, where its political power is no longer present, it is going to be a minority, so does it make those investments, those developments impossible? The message of the place is clear: the Fidesz decision on the failure of the working quarters is wrong, because otherwise it does not fit into the misconception of the Jászberény local government on paper, the city's strategy adopted on several occasions by the representative bodies, the more so because of the loss of power of the local Fidesz, in order to get it back into power. We have to take it as a misconception that free cities where democratic representatives and mayors have taken control as a result of the municipal elections are withdrawing the support from the government and even forcing their local group to do so or calling for it. This procedure is unacceptable, and I think that the interests of the Hungarian people, the people who live there, and the people who live in that settlement are also in stark contrast. This is where the principle is that if you cannot use it, at least do harm. In addition to the specific case, I am looking for the interests of the local economy and society, which I consider to be different, but in my opinion, it is in the main direction of development and its real strategy, with the need for understanding. So we would like to suggest that everyone does not make such decisions. In any case, the local interest of cities and municipalities shows that there is a need for improvements that enhance the opportunities of people and businesses there and create the conditions for this. [[17.20]] The fact is that I am confronting you with this situation, this fact, even new examples, because, as I mentioned at the beginning, this is not the only place we can meet with this. We have already seen this spectacularly, even in the capital, but there are more and more such projects, which, if they continue to do so, will affect the operation in a damaging way, and this damaging operation will be done by the voters if you do not eliminate it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-05-210	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. Gergely Farkas, an independent representative, has applied for a post-meeting speech: - Let's protect children's health! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-211	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are cases that are above parties, and everyone agrees with them despite parliamentary diversity. I would like to bring such a matter before the House now, because the protection of children, the protection of young people and the preservation of their health, I believe, is a matter above the parties. Especially when it comes to the consumption of a product that they may not even know is harmful. And this product is nothing more than an energy drink. In fact, poor consumption can have serious health effects without the large majority being aware of this. Of course, in the case of an adult, we leave what and how much he consumes, for example, energy drinks, but young people belong to a different category. We have a shared responsibility to protect them, as we try to protect them from alcoholic beverages, for example, by making it difficult for them to access them. I took a similar initiative today, when I submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, in which I set out that children under the age of 14 should not be sold and that there should not be an energy drink available to them. Why would it be important to accept and move on? Because the health effects of the consumption of energy drinks have long been addressed by health professionals. It is also stated on the label of energy drinks that they are contraindicated in pregnancy, breast-feeding mothers, children, decaf intolerant, high blood pressure, in patients with heart disease, or at the same time as alcohol. Nevertheless, energy drinks are highly popular, especially among children at risk, and therefore are increasingly trying to introduce certain restrictions in more and more countries at global level. I do not want to deny that the Hungarian government has already taken steps to reduce energy consumption among children, because energy drinks can no longer be sold or consumed in educational institutions and in events organised outside the institutions for children and students. However, this alone does not exclude the possibility of access to and continued consumption of shops. According to a previous survey by the National Institute of Food and Nutrition, one in five children aged 10-14 consume energy drinks for breakfast, which is an extremely poor indicator in European comparison. Hold on a second, and we're going to digest this data, that one in five young people starts their day by eating such an energy drink. In addition, 78 percent of Hungarian adolescents drink energy drinks, 13 percent of them are regular large consumers. It is also a serious problem that in many cases young people consume energy drinks in situations that are already stressful for their body, such as alcohol mixed with alcohol at parties, after training and more physical stress, or even in case of intense fatigue, such as learning. I think it is very important to point out that the restriction in my proposal would not be an individual case. For example, an example could be taken of Lithuania, who first banned the sale of energy drinks in 2014 for people under 14 years of age. The fact that 10 percent of Lithuanian children drank these drinks on a weekly basis confirmed the government's position, which the Hungarian data are also jumping on, so it would be strongly justified to introduce this regulation in Hungary as well. But we don't have to go to Lithuania, because the Romanian Ministry of Health has also put in a public debate a draft banning businesses from selling energy drinks to minors and even overseeing online sales so that they can't even order from the Internet, thus protecting young people from harmful drinks. Another point in my proposal for a decision is to launch an information campaign on the harmful effects of energy drinks. The surveys show that, unfortunately, Hungarian society is very unaware of the negative consequences of these. The list of harmful substances and the amount of caffeine contained in the energy drink cans also contribute to excessive consumption, in most cases neither young people nor parents are aware of the real risk they hold. It is a proven fact that the caffeine content of these drinks may be up to three times higher than that of other stimulant beverages, such as Coke, Coffee or Excessive intake of caffeine, with a number of side effects: heart rate increases, blood pressure increases, heart attacks or sudden cardiac death in the most severe cases, and may also help to increase the intensity of cardiovascular diseases that have been hidden so far. For this reason, I suggested in my submission that the government provide a comprehensive national information campaign on the health-damaging effects of the consumption of energy drinks. In addition, following the example of other countries, it makes rules to prohibit the sale or supply of energy drinks to persons under the age of 14 in order to protect children. I trust you to accept my proposal.
u2020-10-05-212	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. The right-hand representative of Dániel Z. Kárpát has also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-213	Mr President, Dear House, Winter is coming, I began my speech before the agenda today, indicating that there is a social and social cataclysm situation nearby in Hungary, and not only is it based on the more than ten thousand evictions, but it is also the extremely difficult livelihood and the incredibly low wage level that characterizes Hungarian public states. We also have to say that, in parallel with all of this, statistics that the government has also said appear, which in recent weeks have allowed us to conclude that the average payment in Hungary is over HUF 400 000. Once again, to taste: the average salary is above 400 thousand HUF according to Hungary's Government. At the same time, let us not be incorrect, let us not just blame the government for the use of bad statistics, because the statistics themselves are misleading on this issue, so I would like to clarify this issue. The average gross salary of 400 thousand HUF cannot be paid because more than 1.7 million employees in Hungary do not appear in this statistics. There is no one here who works for a company with fewer than five employees, so micro-enterprises, mints, and typically not the very broad mass of the largest earners are excluded from the statistical calculation. It is quite amazing that roughly one third of workers' wages are not reflected in what the government is saying at a press conference in Parliament, and with which it seeks to praise and defend its own performance. This average is also pushed upwards by a number of one-off effects that I am very happy with, if any. I am very pleased that a large number of health workers in Hungary will receive HUF 500 000 gross additions, we think they deserve much more, but this is pushing up the statistics that give rise to the false image, as if the salaries in Hungary are actually expanding. Furthermore, this statistics lack precisely those who have already lost their jobs in recent months because of the epidemiological emergency. Their relatively vulnerable position, their lower wages can't even pull down this government's statistics, with a noble simplicity because they miss out on it, they don't show up. What we see in the end is that if we add up these missed effects and non-inflows, then not only will the gross average salary fall below HUF 400 000, but also a much lower amount will appear, especially because every average feature is that the wages of two thirds of the workers do not even reach this reduced amount as an average, and very many of those who work for micro-level, dwarfing salaries are much more important and socially prominent. We also see that three ways a responsible government could change this amazing, unsustainable situation, because it should be changed. In the meantime, the minimum wage of a country to the east of us has also exceeded the Hungarian minimum wage, among other things because due to the weakening of the forint, even in international comparisons, we have gone further than we already do not honour, and we find practically two European or EU countries where there are demonstrably even lower wage levels, although there are no guarantees to retain this position. [[17 .30]] One of the three directions is sensible, and here in Parliament we can touch it the easiest. Public sector workers often work for frozen, frozen salaries, based on a salary fund that has not been moved for ten years, while inflation is constantly eroding these salaries, so the impairment of their continuous salary can be achieved, and no one has done anything about it. On the other hand, the highest level imaginable is that of multinational companies. In Jobbik's view, as a socially sensitive Hungarian people's party, strategic contracts should be renegotiated in such a way that it is only worthwhile to re-negotiate them with companies who undertake to start approaching the European average, at least slowly, at least stepwise, every year, say, 2-3 percent of a slow approach by allowing productivity to be shown. The third sphere we build on is the sector of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, where it should be said that a general reduction of contributions is needed, so a heavy burden must be removed from the shoulders of Hungarian employers. In return, however, we can expect, and we bettermen would expect, two thirds of the amount of the contribution allowance granted to these companies to devote to the wage development of their own employees. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In this way, it could be said that employers benefit, workers benefit [[The president's ringing again.]] And we're going to put the budget in order, because that's what we're doing, which is why we're here, but we have to go in this direction. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-05-214	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. After the agenda, Lajos Rig, Jobbikos, spoke with the title of the health care worker 2.0.
u2020-10-05-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A week ago, I spoke from the point of view of the health worker about the good things that I had pointed out during the epidemic, and I came to some anomalies, including tests and regulation of order. I'd like to continue with this now, because those five minutes, unfortunately, didn't fit. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the bad experiences of which perhaps one or two have already found improvements in the meantime. The first, when another so-called second wave came in, the government drew the attention of Hungarian citizens arriving in Hungary to the fact that if they arrive home, they must either go to quarantine or a test is required in Hungary. The tests in West Germany and Austria are not accepted. My first question would be how different it is, the methodology of the procedure is the same, and the detection of the virus is based on the same. There is one difference: the test carried out there is absolutely free for German workers. My daughter works in Lindau, and if you want to come home to Hungary, your employer will pay the cost of this, which the general practitioner will order. Summer came, I said that the virus had been released, that we had loosened up on these restrictions: it was possible to hold events of 500 people, wine festivals, football tournaments. Interestingly, until August 31, the spread of the virus in communication stopped completely, and then September 1 came and started again. It's not a second wave, it's a continuation of the first wave, in my opinion. The following anomaly: The complete visit ban in many health and social institutions has rightly been re-established since 1 September, except for Members of Parliament. The Member of Parliament, if a ventilator arrived, which is an essential part of health care, or three perfusors, ran into the medical institution, especially a hospital that is listed as an epidemic hospital, and there in the courtyard with a photographer, a video crew, and a fully pedestal, the Member of Parliament gave it to him, even though many of his relatives wait for at least five minutes to see his next of kin. It is an anomaly that either no one can enter or everyone can enter the facility with a negative test. I would like to turn to something very important that has been said here today: the increase in wages for health workers, including doctors. Dear government representatives and members of the government. It took you ten years and a pandemic to see that the current wage, on the opposition side, was not such a week that there was no speaker to say that whether doctors or health professionals, but I go on to pay social workers, I have to say that it is ridiculous. And you've taken ten years and a pandemic to suddenly raise doctors' wages by about 120 percent, but you're also bringing in such a military rule that if you accept and introduce this regulation, that doctor can be sent to any other institution without justification for a year; otherwise, the private sector and the public sector will be separated, but there will also be loopholes. And the doctors who have accepted hundreds of thousands of forints from patients for several years, even if we look at the news from cancer patients who fought for their lives and had to receive hundreds of thousands of forints. But it's the Btk. Once again, it's an anomaly. A year can be struck by the person who gives or accepts this parasolvency, while Gábor Kaleta, who returned home to Hungary with 19 thousand paedophiles, to the Hungarian court, was suspended for a year before the Hungarian court, and received a fine of 540,000 forints. Well, here's an anomaly. The following is: I, as a member of the Hungarian Health Professional Chamber, demand the same thing as the president's statement a few days ago, that the wages of health professionals should be kept at the same rate, with the same strength, so that there is no such anomaly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and such tension between health workers, and I ask that the social sphere [[The president's ringing again.]] Don't forget your employees. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2020-10-05-216	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. After the agenda, a better representative of Brenner Koloman came forward with the title "Cancel and Fidesz Power" in Sopron. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, A few days ago, an iconic church of Sopron, the church of St. Michael, was delivered in a private church. Now, this church is not iconic because I was there myself, but not weekly, like some other politicians, but because it is called the patron saint of the city. What happened, and why do I say it's a lot, that in a citizen's town, the Fidesz gentleman is practically laughing in our faces? What's happened is that this private mass is practically the only place for Fidesz potentes to attend. There were those who, unlike me, were certainly not in this church, because the Fidesz is a fake Christian and a fake Democrat, aren't we, comrades, remember this? Practically the citizens of Sopron and, for example, the vice-president of the Hungarian Parliament in Sopron, but also the representatives of the local opposition government were not invited to this event. It is a shame and a shame, because I believe that the church of the city's patron saint is one of the symbolic places of all the citizens of Sopron, and in this case we are not blocking the path of the citizens of Sopron with the luxurious Fidesz government, because this is what happened, and because of this luxurious caravan, it was not a migrant caravan, but Fidesz-karava, compared to this, the citizens of Sopron did not even get a projector to truly take possession of our beautifully renewed iconic church. It is a shame, a shame, that in the year 2020 of the Lord, such an event can take place in this respectable citizens' town. On behalf of the People's Party Jobbik, we believe that the citizens of Sopron deserve more than that. Dear House, Let's face it, the Hungarian university world and Hungarian science deserve much more, as it is not enough that the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has been separated from the Academy, against which I, as a member of the public body of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, have always raised my word, it seems that the Fidesz one-party overpower, citing old beautiful Bolshevik times, is now trying to wipe the past out of the name of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. [[17.40]] Well, where else are we going to go, comrades with fidesz? And then I will ask Mr President, if possible, not to take the floor from me. Basically, we're looking at new levels of Fidesz's anti-knowledge and intellectual policy. We see that I have not always spoken in vain against the introduction of representatives of university leaders and students elected by university citizens into the Curatoriums of universities that have been turned into foundational reservations. The University of Theatre is an example of what it is like when both the university autonomy guaranteed by the Higher Education Act is trampled by Fidesz and, in the Constitution, we now call it the Fundamental Law. Last time, the Bolshevik system of the 1950s was characterized by deans, rectors, university leaders being appointed from the party center, like now from the Fidesz Ministry. Well, where are we going in 2020, in a Member State of the European Union, in a country where university autonomy has always been sacred and inviolable since the Middle Ages, the only exception was the communist period I mentioned earlier? ! Once again, we are about to appoint an army officer as Chancellor of the University of Dramatic Arts, who travel in the curatorium in the oil business, and the chairman of the board is a colleague of Vidnyánszky, who seems to have experienced some great harm in his previous life, because we see where this has all led. A few days ago, I made my proposal to lift the stalemate: build two arms so that the students can start teaching and teaching with my old curriculu and the old educator's guard, and the new leadership can try to develop a new concept that will convince those who want to go to the Vidnyánszky leadership. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-05-218	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. Congressman Bence Tordai, the representative of the Dialogue, applied for a post-meeting speech: a basic bicycle for everyone! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Yeah, I want a base bike for everyone. This is the address of my statement after the agenda. Because we see that the Fidesz government's transport development supports motorway constructions in the highest order of magnitude. Hundreds of billions of forints are often spent every year to build completely unnecessary, later proven unused motorways, and we know exactly why: the fidesz oligarchs see one of the biggest businesses now, in the two-to-three-fold overpriced motorways, with a record level of up to 3.5 billion forints per kilometer. This is the backbone of Fidesz' transport development policy. But we also see that they are thinking about something else, thinking about supporting car shopping. Several tens of billions of HUF budget lines help families to buy cars, which in fact can be considered as an eligible goal, as they do not even steal the money they give directly to people, although motorised individual transport may not have a very bright future in the long run. Compared to this, it is still one step ahead when a programme on the part of the government was introduced for the acquisition of electric bicycles. That's just a billion-dollar budget; you'll notice 100 billion, 10 billion, and then 1 billion. This is still a category that is clearly a luxury for the majority of ordinary people. Let's face it, the support of hundreds of thousands of electric bicycle wonders for 150 thousand HUF is not an option for masses. The Dialogue says that I personally suggest that we go on this path and then finally arrive at a transport policy support that is clearly supported by everyone and that we support the purchase, purchase, servicing, renovation and everyday use of non-electric bicycles, especially in terms of going to work. I do not think there is a long need to explain the beneficial physiological, public health, economic, traffic and environmental effects of this. I can give you a personal example, I go in by bicycle every day from 11 to 12 kilometers, I'm in a much better mood than colleagues who get out of their underground garage, I'm in a better state of health, I'm less likely to catch diseases, including the coronal virus, so I recommend this type of traffic with all my heart. Taking the joke aside, we propose and present today a parliamentary resolution proposal to oblige the government to support cycling transport, in particular to support work. As point 1 of this six-point package, we would call on the government to give employers the opportunity to encourage their employees to work on bicycles in a preferential form. 2. As a tax-free benefit, they can provide corporate bicycles for workers. 3. Bike workers should have a kilometer-based remuneration, as is the case in many European countries, and an investment in reducing health costs will be profitable. 4. We recommend that there should be a once-in-a-lifetime grant for every Hungarian citizen, which provides a HUF 25,000 for the major repair and generation of existing bicycles, and for those who do not yet have a bicycle, a grant of HUF 50,000. This would allow the current high, but still not high, regular cycling rates in Europe to continue to increase. 5. Local authorities should be encouraged financially to support the purchase of bicycles by students as an alternative to obtaining a driver's license, on the proposal of Szilvia Temesvári, a dialogueal deputy mayor. Last but not least, 25 percent of budget resources are spent each year on improving and developing infrastructure for cycling and other non-motorised means of transport. This could help improve the health of the Hungarian population, improve the competitiveness of companies, reduce the number of sick days, reduce traffic jams, and improve air quality in our cities, which is in the common interest of all of us. That's why I'm going to ask for your support. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-220	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I give the floor to the right-hand congressman Gergely Kálló, on the day after the agenda. Every day of animals! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-221	Dear House, Mr President, Dear Parliament, Two things are topical to my speech here. One is that yesterday, on Sunday, we held the World Animal Day. When the news is coming in Hungary from week to week, month to month, but unfortunately every day about the brutal cruelty of animal abuse, we Members of Parliament, if necessary, must speak on behalf of the mute, from week to week, from month to month. One more thing that was announced last week, and for me it is very happy news, and this is that the Hungarian government will finally appoint a Commissioner for Animal Protection. This is a very welcome news, although let's add that this is just the first step on the long road to animal protection, and we need to speed things up. They also named what the future Animal Protection Commissioner would be doing. This was defined in four points: assessing the national stray situation, proposing a national neutering programme, evaluating lawn owners' farms and suggesting how these can be restored and raising public awareness of responsible livestock farming. [[17.50]] When I read these four points, I could really have had a bird taken with me, because I submitted two of these four points among my most recent proposals for amending the budget. I'm not a naive man, I don't think I said that to you in a pen, but it seems that at least in assessing problems there can be consensus between the parties. These two things were the launch of the national neutering program, and the other was the start of a national lawn-master rehabilitation. But I also put another point in the budget, and this is the creation of the animal police. It is not a state in Hungary today that animals do not receive any constitutional protection, but I am not the only one saying it. The ÁRMO organization has launched a petition for Hungary, which has been signed by more than 24,000 people to date, without any advertising or marketing. They were able to get 25,000 people to support the animal protection police, and they were just civilians. That's the social support behind the Animal Protection Police. I suggest that everyone on peticiok.com support this petition by signing it. Finally, fellow Members, allow me an ideological pass. You refer to the fact that they are Christian people, and that they want to introduce this Christian ideology into Hungarian internal politics. I share this view, because I am a religious man myself, but at the same time, my religiousism can stand up for the animals for which the Hungarian state does not stand. In my religious capacity, I must be able to speak in the voice of tortured animals whose voices are spoken only by civilians and politics not. If we have been able to create Europe's most stringent anti-smoking law, then I believe that there is no obstacle to creating the most stringent animal protection law in Europe. For me, it's Christian provision. Finally, I will remain a servant of my district, come on, Borsod 6, come on, László Bíró! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-10-05-222	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Kálló. István Apáti, an independent Member, applied for a post-meeting speech:, Do not destroy four hundred thousand Hungarian entrepreneurs. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-223	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's an old truth in politics not to disturb your opponent when he's about to make a mistake. At the same time, we in the Hungarian Movement think completely differently, and we try to disrupt the majority of the government with whistles, drums and violins during a deer error. Since it is not too late, before the amendment that destroys at least two thirds, or nearly one hundred percent, of Katás taxpayers, which will enter into force from 1 January 2021, there are still a number of parliamentary meetings, in which there will be the possibility or the possibility for the government to correct the error that it had made at the end of the spring-summer session. What we are talking about here, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that there is a very popular form of taxation, the cata, the flat-rate tax on small taxpayers, which has been chosen by at least 400 000 entrepreneurs. At least 400 thousand of our compatriots, most of them are obviously micro-contractors or micro-entrepreneurs, according to the rules of this form of taxation, the essence of which is very briefly that, by paying a flat-rate tax of HUF 50 thousand, these Katás entrepreneurs will, in turn, be able to fulfil all their tax and contribution obligations, but at the same time they will waive the validation of expenditure items, provided that their annual net income does not exceed HUF 12 million. A lot of people choose this form of taxation even if they have a number of material costs, asset costs, real costs and possibly wage costs, because they consider that all of these, plus the monthly flat-rate tax payment of HUF 50,000, are significantly better off, they can realise more net benefits at the end of the month or at the end of the year than choosing a more complex and higher tax form. And in this compromise, the Fidesz-KDNP government, in a way that is completely incomprehensible to our country, because the principles of less and more were excellent, we have been able to record the kata as a success story: because of its simplicity, transparency and low risk levels, or its risk-free nature, much more tax revenues have been made in the state register each year than they had planned in advance. At the same time, it was also part of the compromise that these taxpayers acknowledge that, as they are likely to achieve much more net income or net profit than, say, their fellow workers, they are prepared for pension savings or individual savings in their active age, as they can expect a significantly low pension. As of 1 January 2021, the government has imposed an extra 40 per cent penalty tax on revenue, commission fees, income or income from the same principal, or the government is preparing to impose, in practice, to destroy this form of taxation, since there are several activities which, by virtue of sectoral legislation, cannot be carried out in employment or in the framework of employment contracts, many activities, including many agricultural, construction or intellectual activities, cannot, for example, be carried out in such a form. A small producer who gives the same purchaser freshly harvested vegetables, fruits or fresh harvested crops and, as a result of his legal transactions with the same principal or the same purchaser, pays an extra tax of 40 per cent per year to the share over HUF 3 million. The same is true for construction workers; the same is true for construction workers, from masons to carpenters to electric and plumbers. These people cannot convert this into employment contracts by the nature of their activities, and moreover, the government's calculation will not come in so much that we dare to declare it fully aware of our responsibility that it is not the era of the conclusion of mass employment contracts, but the period of mass job-seeking registrations, because these katás entrepreneurs either fail or in other cases move towards the grey or black zone. Not to mention, and from here I will continue in my speech after the next agenda, that according to the present position, an average catechist can expect a pension of HUF 43,000, and that the period spent in a 40-year catechism service is a maximum of 26,5 years for the calculation of pensions. In other words, when they are active or retired, they cannot expect anything good from the government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And that's unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-05-224	Thank you, Congressman István Apáti. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, betterman, notary also applied for a post-scheduled speech: after 25 years, the title of the Champions League's best. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-05-225	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I don't think there's any sound...
u2020-10-05-226	Is it on? You're about to get your voice. I can't hear you. I need some help. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz:.... I'm a long way from...]] Yeah, the other one's the neighbor's? I thought... [[Dr. Steinmetz Adam's desk is equipped with portable microphones.]] You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2020-10-05-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After 25 years, Ferencváros' football team was re-entered the Champions League group. I think that with a fair, persuasive, eye-catching and goal-strong game, the Swedish, then Scottish, Croatian and finally Norwegian champions were able to overcome first. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] That's right. And I think that this is the achievement that everyone in Hungary today deserves to be proud of, perhaps even the bloodiest Újpest fans. And this is the moment when it is customary to thank the players, to congratulate the leaders; and this is the moment when it is appropriate to thank those sports leaders who, with their sacrifice, provide the framework for these successes. So allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to offer my sincere congratulations to CEO Pál Oros, and to my fellow Member, President Gábor Kubatov, among the walls of this House. [[18.00]] As the champion of Ferenc City, the cup winner, the KEK winner, I hope Mr. President will accept my congratulations if he doesn't like my thanks. Perhaps the only flaw in this wonderful success is that most of it was achieved by foreign players. Ladies and gentlemen, let us recall, 25 years ago, when Anderlecht, Ajax or Real Madrid arrived on the Üllő road, Ferencváros, who stood up with Hungarian coach and eight Hungarian players, was able to compete. Now what are we looking at? What we see is that under the guidance of a foreign coach, eight foreigners regularly enter the field. I understand that Ferencváros has performance constraints, but unfortunately, the situation in other NB I Hungarian football clubs is not rosy in this respect either. And yes, this is the moment when you need to draw attention and ask, many also ask where qualified Hungarian footballers are. Never so few young Hungarians have played in the NB I as they do today. According to the statistics, U23 Hungarian footballers receive 10 percent of the total playtime in NB I. In comparison, I would like to tell you that Serbian young people receive more than 53 percent in the Serbian Championship, which is not weaker than Hungary, and otherwise flood Europe's top championships. The question arises, then, where are the talented, qualified Hungarian footballers, especially when the Fidesz government has supported sport with hundreds of thousands of millions of forints a year since 2011, and in particular the re-education of football. Today there are 27 replacement workshops in Hungary, which call themselves the academy, with more than 70,000 children kicking the skin than before 2011, more than 700 football fields were built and countless new ones have been renewed. In view of this, I think the question is really valid: where is the result, where are the young Hungarians? Allow me now to quote to you Mihály Musbek's thoughts in the days he was a teacher at the University of Physical Education, so the quote reads: "If politics spends 400 billion a year on Hungarian sports, but while not determining the system of personal responsibility and not asking for it to be spent, there is a big problem. Yes, my fellow Members, there is a big problem that needs to be discussed, and I trust that, after a new government has been set up, the system of personal responsibility and accountability will be defined. In the meantime, I wish from my heart that Dénes Dibusz, Gergő Lovrencsics and his companions could break as much pepper as possible under Messi and Ronaldo during the further struggles of the Champions League. I'm rooting for them. Let's go! Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-05-228	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a nice day.
