u2020-06-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 36th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, please.
u2020-06-15-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament shall vote on the end of the emergency tomorrow, in parallel with the abolition of the extraordinary legal order. Compared to voting on the Crown Virus Act, it hasn't even been 90 days. We've had an educational time. The conclusion of this instructive period gives us the opportunity to do three important things: on the one hand, to express thanks; on the other hand, to look at what has been done; and, on the third, to look at what kind of attacks we could have done. Allow us to express the thanks and appreciation of the government here and now to all Hungarian people, without whose discipline the first phase of defense could not have been successful. Our restrictive measures have been strict and have led to serious changes in people's daily lives. However, since these restrictive measures have been taken in time, and since these measures have been observed by the people, we have managed to prevent the epidemic from entering the stage of mass infection; we have managed to control the spread of the epidemic and to keep the number of infected people relatively low. We can therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary has passed an excellent test of health protection against the first wave of epidemic. Allow us to express our thanks here and now to health care workers, doctors, nurses and nurses who have fought in the front line all along. We owe thanks to teachers who have provided our children with the necessary knowledge even in completely changed and completely new circumstances. We owe thanks to the public service operators, as the country has maintained its functionality during the extraordinary situation. And we thank the police and firefighters, who have kept us safe all along, protected us, and protected our borders, which have been constantly under pressure from illegal immigrants and human smugglers over the last few months. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] At the same time, honourable Members, the crisis has shown us how Europe must move forward and what it must do differently in the future. For example, on strategic issues, in strategic sectors, we cannot be vulnerable to an external player. A significant part of the European Union's foreign policy is its constant criticism of China. Compared to this, we have seen in recent months that all the EU Member States have, almost without exception, fought with each other in China in order to obtain the means to save the lives needed to protect them. We have also seen the serious tragedies that have occurred in G7 or G20 countries because of the lack of means to protect health. We also made our move on time here, the air bridge worked and works between China and Hungary. We acquired more than 150 million masks, 70 million protective suits, and about 10,000 ventilators while building domestic production capacities. After all, let us not forget that there is still a great debate on the future of the virus, not even scientists have been able to reach any consensus. More than 100,000 new cases are registered to the World Health Organization on a daily basis at global level, and no one knows anything for sure about a second wave. All of this, however, places the obligation on us to take responsibility and carry out measures that relax or completely eliminate previous restrictions only if we are prepared to be prepared for a possible second wave, even in a worst case scenario. The government has done this job. [[13.10]] However, honourable Members, the pandemic is not only a health issue but also an economic issue. The epidemic has put people's lives and health at risk, but it has also put people's jobs at risk. They must also be protected, saved and created at least as many new ones as the crisis will take. And, of course, there is a big debate about what economic policy instruments the state should use, and that is when speculators come up, of course, who see national economies in difficulty; they see national economies becoming free prey; they see people in difficulty, and they are easy victims for speculators. And then there are better, more selfless proposals to indebte and create vulnerability. However, we, fellow Members, will not allow it, nor allow it, nor will we give the country into the hands of speculators in the future. We protect ourselves, protect the Hungarian people, protect the Hungarian economy, and defend the results that we have achieved together over ten years, resulting in the fastest growth of the Hungarian economy in Europe at the end of last year, and which has made Hungary the most attractive investment destination in Central Europe. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, While negative news is coming from the world economy about the closure of factories, redundancies, bankruptcy, 806 companies in Hungary decided to invest a total of HUF 377 billion in government aid in the coming months. In all counties of the country, from Nemesvámos to Napkor, from Zalaegerszeg through Berente to Fajszi, they expand capacities in more than 30 industries, build new factories, install new production lines, introduce new technologies to make the Hungarian economy more competitive after the pandemic than before the pandemic, so that we can take part in the new global economic competition from the best possible start position. This 806 Hungarian companies protect 143 618 jobs. These are the companies that, in recent weeks, we have heard in Parliament that they are kissing and that they are applying for state aid for unfair purposes. I think that, in contrast, we should express our gratitude and appreciation here, because with them and thanks to them, we can say that the Hungarian economy, Hungary, will take advantage of the difficult situation again. And we are going forward: today we have launched another tender with a budget of HUF 25 billion for Hungarian companies wishing to invest in cross-border areas with government help. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last 90 days, we have faced amazing attacks both at home and abroad. The attackers didn't care at all about the need to save people's lives. All they had in mind was the weakening of the government, the weakening of defense and political gain. Eyed-up lies, fake news, sneaky Nazis, fake videos all over the place. We can remember when we were told that we wanted to bring the extraordinary legal order into effect forever. Not 90 days have passed since we voted on the Crown Virus Act here in Parliament, we can vote tomorrow to withdraw it. They said the parliament wouldn't meet. We were here every week, sitting, working. They did not attack the Hungarians beyond the border. However, we are proud that we have helped Hungarians across the border to defend themselves against the global epidemic by over a million means. If we had to make a decision now, we'd do exactly the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we know that the opposition's job is to criticize and attack the government. However, at least there should be a limit, for example, that they don't mess with people's lives; that they don't mess with ambulances; that they don't undermine trust in ambulances, and that they don't lie to paramedics who never were. However, this line has been crossed, and at the time of the epidemic, when people's lives have been or had to be fought for. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If we were naive, we'd probably expect an apology. But we're not, so let's leave that question to the electorate. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The first phase of protection has been successfully completed. Thank you, Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-2	Ladies and gentlemen, The political groups have five minutes to answer the Minister's reply. First I give the floor to the representative of DK, Gergely Arató.
u2020-06-15-3	Dear House, I think we all agree here in Parliament that we owe thanks to those who have borne the greatest burden of combating the epidemic: health workers, doctors, nurses, health care staff who support them, residents of social institutions, nursing homes, or even teachers who have kept education working under very difficult conditions, with very little government support, with a lot of work, and I add, with a lot of help from parents. My advice, Minister, is not to be cowards. Be bold enough to accept opposition amendments that give people in this sphere a significant increase in wages in addition to fine words. Accept the wage increase for health workers; accept that social sector workers will also receive support for epidemiological protection; accept that we are finally starting to fix the long-lost wages for social workers and educators. As far as purchases are concerned, the picture is not so beautiful anymore, because from one side, it is definitely a performance and result, if not at the beginning of the epidemic, but at least at the end, we managed to obtain a large amount of equipment. But this does not exempt the government from counting these amounts; it does not exempt the government from giving an answer on how this acquisition could result in unreliable ventilators, masks that cannot be used in a medical facility, or tests that medical universities have said were unreliable. This needs to be answered, and it is not possible to just run this thing down with a generality, but it is necessary for the government to answer these questions specifically and to account for the huge amount of money that has been spent on this. [[13.20]] As far as the economic part is concerned, Minister, he has reported it precisely. You support large companies. You support the few hundred large entrepreneurs, oligarchs and foreign multinationals that your entire economic policy is about. They are supporting them now, and not the Hungarian people who have lost their jobs, not the small businesses who are fighting for their lives. That's what your economic policy is all about. It is about how they can move their friends and relatives and their acquaintances up on the richest list in Hungary. This is your economic priority, not jobs, not people who are in a difficult situation. As far as foreign policy aspects are concerned, Minister for Foreign Affairs has also given a large speech on the situation of capitalists, speculators and loans, and the Hungarian government has even fancied a Soros plan 2 in the national consultation, which the European Union is supposed to implement. What do we read, what do we see? It means you're holding hands for this money. We see that it is not the Turk Council and not President Putin to whom the Prime Minister writes love letters to support Hungary, but the European Union, EUR 8 billion, i.e. HUF 3000 billion in non-refundable grants, the source of which is the joint EU recording, which was previously said to be unacceptable and unimaginable. Meanwhile, on 22 May, the Prime Minister quietly authorised the Minister of Finance to issue a statement of support in this regard. I suggest we get back to reality. The allies of Hungary are not located in the east, but in the European Union, west of us and around us. It is in Hungary's interest to be on good terms with them, it is in Hungary's interest to be successful within the European Union and not to wink out of the European Union and weaken European cooperation. Finally, what about the authorisation law? On the one hand, please respond, Minister, that after 90 days, the government will really withdraw this mandate. It's not Parliament, because the law you've submitted is bullshit, it's a fake law, it's already a part of it, it's about Parliament asking the government to kindly withdraw the emergency. In addition, you have also tabled another bill, and what you take back with one hand, the same full power will be returned to the government with the other hand. But answer me this: if this can be done after 90 days, and it can be decided here in Parliament, then why did you not accept the deadline mandate? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-15-4	On behalf of Jobbik, Brenner Koloman will speak. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, On behalf of the People's Party Jobbik, I would like to express our thanks [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Even if Mr Eric Cartman KDNP laughs a lot about this, I would like to pay tribute on behalf of the EPP Jobbik to all Hungarian citizens who, with their discipline and the sacrifice of their family, have done our country on the front line during this very difficult period. We should also point out that this is why we consider it unworthy of what happens with the reward of 500,000 health workers, the reward of senior colleagues that we have been following in recent days. Let's face it, however, that Jobbik has also proposed a comprehensive wage increase from the outset, but this would also be a very visible gesture from the Fidesz government to those working in health care. And once again, we consider it unworthy, Minister, in this situation, that it is not net, but gross, and then it must be claimed, the pharmacists are not entitled, because they are only sour cream sellers, and so on. It's a very, very unworthy process. I would also like to ask you with respect that with this HUF 500,000, which is due to excellent health care workers, we do not mess around in the future. The same applies to those working in the field of education, as well as parents and students, because let's face it, according to various estimates and analyses, one third or one fifth of students were unable to participate in digital education at an appropriate level. I think that we should not spend the summer break releasing the bureaucracy of the introduction of NAT to teachers, but should focus on finally analysing the experience of digital education in substance. And once this has been done, the results of these analyses can be incorporated into the overall modernisation of the education system. This would be the case now, in this situation, when life forced us both parents, students and educators to deal with this situation in a priority way, even if, thanks to your central education policy and human policy, you can no longer teach gymnastics on an ironboard. It's a shame and a disgrace, which was then done by the appropriate head of the KLIK district. Even though you resigned afterwards, Minister, this only shows what your human policy and the spirit of your country is showing. The values of Fidesz are these district leaders who treat teachers who are supposed to be in charge of their professional management, not to be blamed in such a very difficult time. The next question I would like to address is the support of the European Union. There will soon be an EU summit and EUR 500 billion of non-refundable support from the European Union. Dear House, we are not getting this money from Turkmenistan, we are not getting it from Kazakhstan, we are getting it from the European Union. And I must say that in the distribution of this and in the determination of the next seven years' budget, our country needs allies. I think that the current Hungarian government is not doing well on this issue, and not without reason. I think that the rule of law criteria are not empty ballasts, and I would like to say that the OSCE considered the 2018 election to be free, but not fair because of the distorted media situation, and this has been getting worse ever since. Against the politicians of the People's Party Jobbik [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] There are over 250 final convictions for fidesz psychics to lie. Laugh at that, Mr. Cartman. I think these are signs that all Hungarian citizens who are interested in maintaining legal order respond to. We, on the side of the legal order, believe that there is a need for an examination of the rule of law across all European countries according to the same criteria, and that the result will show what is the situation in today's Hungary. We have never proposed linking European Union funds to this, because this is the money of Hungarian citizens, according to Jobbik. The same applies to the economic support of Hungarians across the border. We have never claimed that this economic support is not justified, but rather instead of their consultation sheet, instead of the hundreds of millions of consultation sheets that are now being posted, they should make a mask. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-6	I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey of KDNP.
u2020-06-15-7	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Thank you for your speech before the agenda, in which we, Christian Democrats, agree with the facts and assessment of the situation and its conclusions. In fact, we are not only in agreement but also in particular in favour of government policy in this direction. We see that in the next year and a half there will be a stronger link between the state of the economy and government performance, so it is particularly important to have a pandemical economic defence action plan, which will also take place next year, in order to maintain the epidemiological preparedness. It is important that the Hungarian economy remains stable with emphasis on the protection of families, the relaunch of the economy and the security of the country. For this to happen, the Hungarian economy needs to allocate additional resources in the order of billions of euros. MFF is the solution to this not only at home, but also abroad. However, there are European Union countries, particularly southern Member States, which have spent so much time during the pandemic period, not with investments, but with direct payments, that the Commission's framework, which opened from 1 January 2021, would be too late for them to overcome the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, because it is only June 2020 and their budget is almost empty. Newer Member States' borrowing would be possible in the order of tens of billions of euros, due to their indebtedness, only by interest and not by prompt payments, but perhaps only at some point during the winter period. [[13.30]] The Southern States have raised these problems to the Commission, which replied in its proposal of 27 May 2020 that the so-called Next Generation EU recovery package should be set up, with a proposed envelope of EUR 750 billion, of which Member States would receive EUR 500 billion in non-refundable aid and 250 billion in the form of loans. The question is only how it changes the European Union that now Member States do not take loans for their own funds, for their own Member States' repayments, but that the Union itself takes out loans for joint responsibility and joint repayment. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister, this has never happened before. Mr. Secretary. During this clever Commission proposal, the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Triumvirate, Western liberal media and similarly-haired NGOs have launched a new campaign of slander against our country, although it would be good to finally apologize to Hungary for the many Fake newsuks. But I still don't! Mea culpas. Even though the Hungarian government announced that the special mandate and the emergency would end on 20 June 2020, this did not affect our slanderers. The globalist political lobby continues to push against us, even in the midst of their sinking ship they focus on this, not on survival, making a big mistake. Mr. Secretary. Compared to the period of the coronal virus epidemic, there is now a significant increase in the number of migrants again. At the time of the pandemic, it has been proven that if there is a political will, then the border can be closed, and that if there is a political will, then the external borders of the European Union can be protected and illegal migration can be contained. We now see that there is no political will for this in Western Europe again, and that means that we Hungarians must count on illegal migration in the long term. The purpose of these people is not to give them refugee status in our country, but to get to Western Europe through us. There is no real political wave of asylum seekers, since no immigrants are being persecuted in Greece and Serbia. What if it was not an attack on us, on us Hungarians, but also on indigenous European peoples and nations? What is this if there is no open attack on the Christian civilization that is at the root of Europe? Mr. Secretary. What are the rules of our own culture? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and we want to live by its values. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-8	I now give the floor to the leader of the LMP, Congressman László Keresztes Lóránt. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, It is important that we start the debate with thanks for such a week, and on behalf of the faction, I would also like to thank everyone who has worked to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people, and I would also like to thank the Hungarian people once again for handling the various restrictive measures and other circumstances with sufficient discipline; this was obviously extremely important and will also be important in the next period. We obviously hope that, if there is a second wave, we will be able to deal with it more easily, but we hope that it can be avoided, but it is very, very important that we really understand it well and that we respond well to the economic crisis created by the virus situation, obviously, there will be much more debate in this. I have a lot of questions for the Minister, and I am trying to ask them, and I hope that you will have the opportunity to answer them. I'd like to start with what we might agree on. We have read, unfortunately, that the Ukrainian Foreign Minister has made an outrageous statement: they have expressed their intention that it will not happen this way, that they do not wish to change the outrageous education law, and I was pleased to read the statement by Minister Szijjártó, his Facebook entry that the government will continue to block and veto the NATO-Ukraine meetings. In this connection, I would like to say that we agree perfectly with this, and we believe that all means must be used to enforce the rights of Hungarians living outside the border. Prime Minister Matovič's statement about the Trianon memorial was much more joyful. We trust that this will continue to be the case and that a better relationship will be established. My question to the Minister is how he feels about this situation, this improving situation, can be used to promote the Beneš Decrees and dual citizenship, so that a substantive step can be taken in this. And let us now come to the questions in which we are likely to have very serious debates with each other. The Minister mentioned the need to assess the new emerging global economic situation that we are experiencing. Well, I see that the government can't appreciate it in any way, or even take action in the opposite direction, as is necessary. It is clear that vulnerability must be reduced and an economic policy that works as far as possible for self-sufficiency prepares the country for self-sufficiency; this is contrary to the measures that you have taken, some measures that you have taken. Congressman Vejkey, if I recall correctly, mentioned the globalist lobby. Well, the globalist lobby successfully moves the government's hand and makes certain decisions, for example, on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. I haven't had a chance to ask the Minister before the agenda in the last few weeks. My question was many, many accusations and allegations, and I hope that you will be able to deny the accusations of shaming very strongly that, not so long ago, Parliament has passed a law under which the Minister has the opportunity to issue the necessary documents if I request data on the contracts and underlying documents of the Budapest-Belgrade railway line. If we look at your budget bill as the budget for economic protection, then we should talk about the numbers in particular. Not long ago, a job creation programme was announced, which was presented with parameters that could create 70,000 new jobs by spending HUF 80 billion. We now see that 80 billion forints will be spent on the Budapest-Belgrád project next year and more than 120 billion forints next year, which, according to your calculations, will be enough to create 175 thousand new jobs. You have therefore decided to force the implementation of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and its renovation instead of creating 175 thousand new jobs, and we have not heard any supporting documents in the budgetary debate. I would like to inform the Minister that in this debate I have also asked Mr Banai State Secretary exactly what support, what return guarantees there are, what return guarantees for economic development are behind the huge project of a total of a thousand billion, which is now spending 200 billion forints this year and next year, which is enough to create 175 thousand new jobs. Please make it clear, Minister, if I am going to contact you now with a request for information, you will issue the appropriate documents. You feel the importance of showing the Hungarian people clearly, when such an economic crisis unfolds, that spending such an amount of 200 billion in two years will create exactly how many new jobs, and please explain, Minister, how these encryptions have been made. I would like to mention one more thing, which is extremely important: you are talking about astronauts, that within five years Hungarian astronauts are about to be put into space, but 34 railway sidelines from the other side have been virtually condemned to death. I would like to inform you, Minister, that I have tried to ask Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, how long the interim epidemiological agenda lasts, and I'm sure I didn't put it right, or the Secretary of State couldn't interpret the question, but he couldn't answer it. Perhaps on behalf of the government, the Minister can explain why an epidemiological agenda is being introduced now and how it can be based on such inability that that replacement bus is safer [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and when the so-called epidemiological agenda ends with regard to the 34 railway sidelines. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-10	Of course, I do not wish to classify the content of the comments made by the ladies and gentlemen of this House, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Minister has only five minutes to answer, so it is likely that in itself he will also take up his time to answer all your questions and there are many others, such as Bertalan Tóth. I give you the floor.
u2020-06-15-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In fact, it is true that in Central and Eastern Europe, compared to Western Europe, thanks to God, the virus was less infected, and therefore thanks to everyone who participated in the defence, especially the Hungarian people for respecting the restrictive measures, thanks to doctors, nurses, social workers, law enforcement workers and those who provided our food, who provided the services and many volunteers who participated in the defence. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the government has a serious debt, and this is about those working in the social sector, because we have suggested that those working in the healthcare and social sector receive a one-off allowance of HUF 500 000 for their work. [[13.40]] One of these was taken by the government, and although we do not know what conditions the health care workers are under; we trust that they will reach everyone for the one-off HUF 500,000, but not for those working in the social sector, even though they did their part in the defence, they too were exposed to the danger, often doing their job without protective equipment. It is also a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that a few months ago, when Parliament voted on the delegation law, we asked for a single gesture. We asked for a deadline, if I remember correctly, on June 30th, it is June 15th, but you did not give this gesture, you didn't do it, and look at this gesture, if you had done so, we would have been able to vote unanimously not only on the law, but also on its withdrawal. Let's all learn from this. And it is also a fact that the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party took their part in the defence, because a few days after the announcement of the emergency, we offered a million forints of our salary, from which we bought protective equipment, after which we bought 12 tons of durable food worth four million forints and delivered it to those in need, and a lot of our fellow Members did volunteer work in the elderly, in other local government tasks. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Louis, for example! There's a grumble from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But let's look at the government's work. Let's look at health care. You put the lives and health of tens of thousands of people in jeopardy when basic and professional care was almost abolished when, in a drastic, brutal way, more than half of the hospital beds were unwarranted and older people were sent back without testing to nursing homes from hospitals. But in the field of education, who had access to digital education, I understood that they had not fallen out of schools, but some surveys show that one third of children could not participate in education because they had neither the tools nor the Internet. For pensioners, we see inflation figures, they promised to get a 53rd week pension, but they didn't help their daily lives. The municipalities will be severely humiliated; while the banks will be given back the abstract money, they will also take away more from the municipalities. With regard to the economy, it is also a fact that you have taken the measures in delay, nearly 400 thousand people have lost their jobs, and during tomorrow, here under the mandate law, they will be reduced to almost zero by the employees' rights, and will be fully delivered to employers. All trade union associations and bodies are united against this law being passed tomorrow, so you have one more day to think about it. Dear Minister, You tell us to thank 806 companies for saving 143,000 jobs, but don't expect us to thank Lőrinc Mészáros for firing 850 people overnight, and then you rewarded him with HUF 18 billion! How does 806 companies feel about being treated so graciously by Gunnery Ripper the Butcher? We are talking about EU funds, we are talking about 2500 billion forints. We propose that this should be based on the management of the housing crisis. We're suggesting that you get started on the building renovation, building insulation program. It has many benefits, there are 1.2 million Kádár cubes in the countryside, and there are 1.4 million condominiums that could be renovated, and now it could be used not only for its own money, but also for EU funds, and very, very serious, socially useful and economically useful activities. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-12	I now give the floor to Bence of Turdai.
u2020-06-15-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I do not really understand why Péter Szijjártó holds this information, why Viktor Orbán does not deserve to come in, because what he said was not in the role of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but in the role of the Prime Minister. We are used to it, but we do not accept that Viktor Orbán does not respect the Hungarian Parliament and does not respect the Hungarian people by personally reporting on the most important aspects of the fight against the epidemic, especially when we are supposedly at an age limit. So let me focus on what Péter Szijjártó's competence and what he should have talked about, but which he did not talk about in a clear way. First of all, Minister, a little modesty might be worth showing. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I understand you're trying to build a brand. The China-Hungary Air Bridge sounds good, but if you compare it to the air bridge that was built to supply Berlin, well, your performance is pretty ridiculous. During the Berlin air bridge, a plane landed every three minutes, loaded with various vital cargoes, and in Hungary three planes landed daily during the most dense period. So maybe you should let go of this exaggeration called the Air Bridge, 'cause you're becoming a comedian. Not to mention, many tens of times, hundreds of times, are over-equipped for different protective equipment. All we can think about is that some Fidesz-near potentate has a very massive, rich profit in this business, otherwise they wouldn't go on even when there's no need for it. But let's talk a little bit about what the Parliament should have told us about where Viktor Orbán is going in your organization. You visited Belarus, Belarus, the last dictatorship in Europe. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties. György Balla intervenes.]] In fact, it is understandable, because he said that the dictator of Belarus, who, by the way, is a proud dictator, will come back to this, that Hungary understands us more than anyone else, and Viktor Orbán returned this compliment by saying that the two peoples and the two countries are much closer to each other than we think. Well, that is what we fear, that at least in the mind of Viktor Orbán and in the future he desired, Hungary is much closer to the last dictatorship of Europe than to the Member States of the European Union. And we see that they also understand how to make friends, because they can be nice to others. And I'm a green left, by the way. [[Rise and shine from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I support international development, yes, so if, let's say, they were building in the third world, In the third world, they would build, say, a children's hospital, and spend... [[György Balla intervenes.]] Don't yell at me, my Fidesz fellow Member. Thank you. [[Interview from Fidesz: Back off!]] So if they're building children's hospitals in Africa, I'm very happy to support it. But when I read that Viktor Orbán is transferring 165 million forints to the reconstruction of the Virgin Mary and St. Stanislav Cathedral of Uspensky in Mogilev, with Hungarian money, I do not think that this meets either the decisions of the good and responsible politicians or the expectations of the Hungarian people. But let's keep going. He really visits a country where he builds friendship where the leader of the country proudly says he's more of a dictator than a gay man. This means that he is a proud dictator, but, in the meantime, he raises homophobia to the rank of state politics, which is also the trend here. And let's see what they learn from each other. For example, to organize military parades during the plague or to spend more money on the 20th of August on fireworks than on the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge. For the latter, the government will spend $6 billion to celebrate the 20th of August, and 6.5 billion to the fireworks. I think it's a good indicator of values and what they believe in when they're chasing popularity. If I had an offer you would have taken, Minister, it would have been to visit Spain, where you can claim the basic income from today. This is a bit more important than the military parade in Minsk. In Spain, a basic income of nearly 500 euros was introduced, providing immediate financial support to almost 2.5 million people, Hungary has more than five million people whose monthly income is less than 100,000 forints, and that is why the Dialogue tells us to introduce the basic income here, which is a financial step for seven million people. There's a possibility of that in the budget. It would be worth learning from the Spaniards, not the last dictator in Europe. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-14	I would like to draw the attention of my fellow pro-government Members to the fact that there is nothing that will relieve you of the dignity of the trials. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is an elegant meeting guide!]] If I may, do so in the future. It's Matthew the Car.
u2020-06-15-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I was about to withdraw my opposition before the agenda, and I was so shocked by some of the sentences by Mr Tordai: what is Belarus the last European dictatorship? ! Well, I thought that was us, Congressman. [[Defiance.]] For months now, they've been saying that where you live is a dictatorship. Compared to this, as shocking as it is, it's at least so comforting that you don't know what you're talking about anymore. Question is, he's not gonna get reprimanded for this. But, Minister, just to continue where you left off, obviously, there was no way to explain it in the absence of time, but this is the perfect opportunity to remember that it was the same left that did not even support the extension of the emergency during the four fifth vote. [[13.50]] If the question has already been asked, my fellow Member Tóth and my fellow Member Arató, who have also sat through these discussions, I have represented the ruling party on them, so I remember it clearly, and we have also told you that according to the knowledge expressed by the then epidemiological experts, it cannot be said that the epidemic can last 60, 90, 120 or 150 days, or that it is worth ordering this situation. We said that as soon as it was not justified, and as soon as the epidemic was over, we would have abolished it, in all other cases the country would have taken a risk, a health risk that would have called for responsibility in the opposite case or in the event of a worse epidemic. It was the right and responsible attitude. But to continue with what the Minister has begun, left-wing authorities have excluded themselves from the concept of solidarity. With HUF 34 billion, the municipal sector had to contribute to a HUF 2400 billion epidemic fund, which, by the way, is only 1.5 percent of the total, less than the contributions of the multinationals and the financial sector, and, of course, much less than the government has transferred from its own budget. It is also worth remembering that you have been withdrawn from defense. Mr Harvester, I would like to draw your attention to the quotes that I do not believe all of them would have been a slip of the tongue. For example, you said that, unfortunately, the number of low deaths is not so bad either, Mr. Cutter's party partner said that he was less tested, less retired and more clever. This may have been a measure of skill for you and for us it may have been to preserve the health of people. Timea Szabó dared to die in Hungary all over the world, while Ákos Hadházy called for civil disobedience. They lied about hospitals and protective equipment, but they also had time to abuse Hungarians across the border. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: Yes!]] They also attacked families, support for job seekers, graduation, and humiliated and dishonored those who took part in the defense, especially Muller Cecilia, who, even in his faith, was abused in their own propaganda door. [[Intercoms from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: Shame!]] Ideally, this line fits the left-wing kamuvido, whose director, his producer, is now absent, but it crowns this process beautifully, and there is no surprise that the consequences will be cancelled again. That is why, Minister, I would go one step further, let us not give this so easily, let the left-wing Members just apologize for what they have done throughout the epidemic and what they have done ever since. I mean, even when they had the chance... [[Bence of Turdai, swinging his head, interrupts.]] Don't humming, Congressman Tordai, because you were the loudest when you worked to abolish your graduation and tried to destroy the Hungarian education system. So all the activities that are related to you, all the activities that are linked to the left of Parliament in the context of the epidemic situation, have shown one thing that the Hungarian left cannot be expected in trouble. I would like to say one more thing to you, since my fellow Members have already spoken about the negotiations with the opposition. They insisted and entered the Coronary Virus Act on necessity and proportionality. The question is, where you govern, for example, the VII. in the district, how necessary and proportionate it was to conclude a 40 million HUF contract with Csaba Czeglédy, or, let's say, how justified it was to conclude a contract with Zoltán Komáromi, how necessary and proportionate it was, and how well it fit into the defense, or, let's say, to raise rents in Obuda, how necessary, proportionate and compatible it was with the protection against the epidemic. That's why you really have no choice but to apologize. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And if we leave it to the electorate, the Socialist Party will slowly overcome itself to the level of support of its ally, the Dialogue. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-16	We have reached the end of the answers, and I will give the floor to the Minister in return.
u2020-06-15-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll excuse me, I'll stick to the facts. First of all, after voting in the Coronary Virus Act, you told us that we would maintain the extraordinary legal order forever, and then you proposed a 120-day deadline. In less than 90 days, we have tabled the law and we can vote on it, on the basis of which an extraordinary legal order can be withdrawn. Two: when the Socialists talk about the 53rd week pension, the retirement of the 13th month pension, and they criticize it, let us remember that they were the ones who took it away, they took away the 13th month pension from the pensioners. When my fellow Member Gergely Arató says that we only provide support to large multinational companies, he is simply lying and launching a serious attack. [[Noise.]] launches a serious attack on small Hungarian companies: Orha Works, Nyíregyháza, 30 people; Indpro, Páty, 48 people; Gémtech, Napkor, 71 people; Motor-Classic Zrt., Tatabánya 76 people; Pata József Mépipari Kft., Fajsz, 107 people, and I could list them at length. If that is not enough, my honourable fellow Member, you have now seriously slandered János Kóka, his former ministerial partner, whose company has submitted tender No 1, submitted a number 1 route to this tender, you have also launched a serious attack on Tamás Leisztinger, who has also received serious state aid to invest. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the aim of Hungarian foreign policy is to gather friends, to gather alliances and cooperative partners all over the world. Obviously, Ferenc Gyurcsány was the same way when he invited the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, to his own villa. And, honourable Member, when you talk about the great problem of the Prime Minister's visit to Belarus, do you know who visited Belarus this year besides him? Mike Pompeo, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United States of America and Prime Minister of Latvia, another EU Member State. In addition, Belarus is a member of the European Union's Eastern Partnership policy, an organisation, a European Union programme. So maybe you think we should raise enemies, maybe you think we should give up the Eastern opening policy, and maybe... [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] We don't want to compete with the Berlin air bridge, we didn't want to, so we didn't have that ambition, and I think we shouldn't frustrate ourselves with things we don't have any ambition at all. But the point is that if we hadn't pursued a balanced foreign policy like we did, then the tools for defence and health protection might not have arrived in Hungary in time and in sufficient numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the need to protect Hungarians across borders, I do not understand exactly why Jobbik of the People's Party is so fiercely defending the position that they have never attacked economic development programmes across borders. Are we talking about some kind of troubled conscience here? ! Since 2016! We supported 55 149 Hungarian farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises across the border. In Hungarians living across the border, 236 billion forints of investment was made in order to strengthen the Hungarian national communities across the border, create a bridge between the motherland and the country where they live, so that they can stay locally and even strengthen locally. Ladies and gentlemen, We did not hear very much positive and supportive voices on this issue, unlike the leader of the LMP, who supports the government's commitment to protect the Hungarians' rights to education in Transcarpathia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group, I can assure you, your party, the entire Hungarian Parliament and all Hungarian people, that we will go to the final stage of defending the rights of Hungarians living across all borders, as long as we can go through diplomatic channels, of course, so that NATO-Ukraine may not have high ministerial meetings and committee meetings until the Hungarians in Transcarpathia have the rights that are linked to native language education. And, yes, the visit of the Prime Minister of the Slovak Republic also has high hopes. We, with neighbouring countries, have always pursued a policy of building common success stories, which provide a sufficient basis for common success stories to allow us to open up even so difficult issues that we would like to mention here, so that at least the hope of agreement and closure is there. Ladies and gentlemen, So the facts speak for themselves [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You've been threatening to build dictatorship, demanding 120 days, getting less than 90 days. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-18	Dear House, We are now moving on to the contributions made before the agenda announced by the political groups. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Dialogue, Sándor Burány. Here you go. [[14.00]]
u2020-06-15-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the last few days, we've had such an incredible amount of information that I'm forced to speak from notes myself. First of all, the country cottages are here. My fellow Members certainly do not know what to do, if they go back to these cottages again, what to do when winter holiday homes open in spring and summer. Well, fortunately, we've received that knowledge from the operational tribe. Now, if anyone goes to their cabin, it's one of the first things you need to start with, believe it or not, after dewatering. After this, you must carefully see that there is a leak, mister's forgiveness, a pipe break, and do not forget to deconstruct. It's very, very important, believe me. After that, two to three minutes of water flow is required, but be very careful that the water thus drained is preferably used only for watering, not for cooking or drinking. Okay, that's it, but what if they didn't dewater the summer houses in the fall? The answer is also ready for this, the operational tribe immediately cut out what to do: if the system remains charged, then the water must be heated. The exchange of water is also very important, after the exchange of water, the water needs to be reheated and a new flow is needed. When we're done with the water, we don't want to think we can just sit back because there's dust. Yeah, the dust. The operational tribe recommends wet cleaning, which is a very important piece of information, and adds that we should not forget to open the windows in the meantime. But let's be careful not to do a crossover, because it will stir up the dust, and it will cause damage. And so on, and so on; we learned from various life coachings that all those who have a holiday home, what should they do if they go away again after many months. I had a small sense of absence as to why the operational tribe didn't tell me what to do after the reopening, but then I realized that there was a very simple reason for this: given that the majority of the hotels are owned by Fidesz, they really don't need the management advice of the operational tribe, they can actually discuss it among themselves in a friendly, family circle, we know who. Well, after we've had all this important information, there's an important professional question. This important professional question sounds like this, but the operational tribe did not answer it even at this morning's meeting: what is the reason why people over 65 and those under 65 can go to swimming pools hand in hand, together, go to a restaurant hand in hand, go to hardware stores together, but they cannot go together, say, husband and wife, if one is over 65 and the other is younger, to a grocery store or pharmacy. The operational tribe could have really told us why these damn crown viruses make a difference, why indifferently leave raw foods before processing in different restaurants, and why they rush butcher shops, why they rush the grocery stores immediately, why they rush their corner spicy shops. Now we have no answers to these questions, and there is an important distinction here, and do not say that it is not important to protect people over 65. I myself volunteered to bring food to my countryman over 65 so he didn't have to go to the store. If protecting people over 65 is important, why is this not important in restaurants, or why is it only important in grocery stores and pharmacy? A reassuring answer should be given to this, in addition to a number of important and indispensable information on holiday homes, but we have not seen any analyses. They let me guess that Wednesday's government meeting was gonna take care of it. But still, Mr. Secretary of State, can one of you please tell me what scientific research is going to be the basis for your decision? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-06-15-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-06-15-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to make it clear to you that the work of the operational tribe is determined by the protection of human life. Also allow me not to respond to your extremely cynical and ironic suggestions, because it is quite simply unworthy. The work of the operational tribe is determined by the fact that the epidemic has calmed down in Hungary. In Belgium, 84 people died per 100,000 people, 63 in the UK. In Spain, where you think we should go, 59 people and 6 people in Hungary. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: 10 of the Slovaks!]] This is the number which determines the activities of the operational tribe. While you're insulting them with personal attacks, lies, embarrassing videos, they've been protecting the country for the past few months. What they're doing is unworthy. But that is another reason to thank them clearly and loudly. Thank you. What I would like to say to you, because you do not think that we will not bring it up here in this House, is that last week we got there, that everyone would be better off if left-wing parties could be connected to a lie detector. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Oh, even if you are!]] Then there wouldn't be any cases like last week. A few days ago, a left - left representative published a poignant video in which a woman called an ambulance officer stated that nine of the ten patients she cared for had died. Tragic claim, but as tragic as he was, he was a liar. They made a chamomile. At first, she claimed to be a paramedic, but it turns out that the National Rescue Service doesn't have one. Then they named a private rescue service. Turns out he didn't work there either. He also claimed to have graduated from Regensburg, but he no longer remembers the name of the school. He doesn't remember. The thing is, the last time we saw a lie castle in one of your Columbo episodes, it would collapse so quickly, and in this case, it wouldn't be necessary for the detective to turn back from the door, and ask one more question, because we know everything, and they all lied. After a while, the video was removed, explaining that the National Rescue Service was sensitive. The National Rescue Service is sensitive. Lajos Korózs, who made a note of the video, asked why they were standing in front of the ambulance, said that he wasn't a cameraman, he wasn't a cameraman, and by the way, they weren't investigating, so he said they weren't investigating the alleged paramedic. It's a joke. [[Bence of Turdai: Question! What's the answer to the question?]] You think everyone's a bird. I'm bringing this here because this Kamuvideo has perfectly demonstrated the politics of left-wing parties over the last few months, there have been a lot of these cases, and that's why I'm bringing it here. Former congressman who claimed to the German public television that doctors did not receive protective equipment, so the head of the medical institution concerned had to disprove it. A deserted right-wing congressman's visitors were chasing the public with protective equipment, so he must have known very well that doctors don't wear them. The Gyurcsány party didn't outdo it in a video and simply claimed that there was no ventilator. And why am I bringing these up in your answer? That's because your party was in the lead in the fake news campaign. Here in the National Assembly, they referred to the alleged rescue officer in the Kamuvideo, and even did so in the People's Welfare Committee. But that's not all. You also lied about the death data. It was claimed here where they are sitting that the worst mortality figures in Hungary are the worst in the world. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] It's just foam on the cake of fake news that they also said that there is no nursing salary increase on the agenda, all by giving nurses 500 thousand HUF extra money this year, and by 2022 they will receive 72 percent wage increase compared to 2018. So, it seems to the left that nothing is expensive, if it's about power interests, then reality is simply sacrificed and moral boundaries are crossed without a problem. The Hungarians will learn the right lesson from this. And the next time you speak up, I think we'll do the right thing if we take the root of this whole thing, but in fact, we'll do the right thing if we think it's all false in the first place. I don't know if left-wing parties would like a mascot for the big left-wing cooperation, but if so, I think there's a good choice: they can safely model it from Pinocchio. That's my suggestion. Steps of the operational tribe at any time [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]] and it is determined by the protection of human life and the elderly. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2020-06-15-22	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you feel that your fellow Member does not interpret the opinion of your group properly, then you should speak for yourself next time, and I will give you the floor, and in the meantime, please listen quietly to the others. László Lóránt Keresztes is next.
u2020-06-15-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is very difficult to hold a debate in Parliament without even trying to answer a single question if there are five minutes. [[Csaba Dömötör: Not to lies!]] It's really hard. [[Sándor Burány: Like this, like this!]] It's really hard. I understand that there are very few according to the house rules, there is very little time available, but you have just shown in your reply that this is not your intention at all, that you do not wish to have a substantive debate. A pre-written, I don't know, requires propaganda. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] in the five minutes available. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, It is not for us to answer first, but for the Hungarian people who are still following the Parliament's meeting. But turning to the very important issue that I would like to talk about in my speech before the agenda, this is about what the debate before the agenda was partly about, and Minister Szijjártó and, by the way, many pro-government actors, government actors, or ministers, acknowledge that this situation must be interpreted in this situation, and that we cannot go on as we did during the pre-punch period. So we need a fundamental shift in economic policy. In recent years... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: On that side!]] Yes, yes, on this side too, obviously, Mr. Secretary of State. But I think that if we look at what you have presented to Parliament in the budget, we look at the budget figures, we can see that you are not only facing this situation, you are not only ignoring this experience that we are seeing here in the beginning of the global economic crisis, but you do not want to accept the system problems of the last ten years, and you are not trying to deal with them in some way. This will have very serious consequences. If we look at the budget numbers, the debate also reveals that you sometimes don't know what's behind the numbers, and I don't know if Mr Tállai will answer me, I would like to ask him that if he answers one question, the question should be: if you spend 80 billion forints this year and 123 billion forints next year on the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, it will create exactly how many jobs in Hungary. We know that from this amount, according to their calculations, 175 thousand new jobs could be created. What exactly is the payback going to be? But if we look at it, and so we look at the experience of the last week, the experience of the debate last week, then there are system problems that you cannot deny, at least in the debate it turned out that you do not deny and accept that these are existing, very serious challenges. If we look at the budget numbers and look behind them, we can see what the impact of the budget you have presented in the short term will be. In the short term, let's say we can understand five years. Let us look at some system problems and, basically, the impact of continuing this policy, so in what direction we are going, what kind of vision Hungary and, above all, the Hungarian countryside will have if we look at the budget figures. It is quite clear that wage differences will be greater than the current one. At present, we have four regions between the 20 poorest regions of the Union since the accession of the European Union. With such a policy, there will be no chance of changing this situation. Unfortunately, it can be said that, on the basis of the current trends, the population of our rural cities will continue to decline, so we can expect, on the basis of numbers, to decrease by about 5% in terms of population in rural cities, in line with your policy. It is quite clear that investments will be missed, since your proposals for the creation of special economic zones make it counter-interested, or at least do not, make local authorities interested in investing and engaging in such investment incentives. Unfortunately, because of your rural ruining policy, new villages will be depopulated on the one hand because of forced emigration and poor demographic indicators, and on the other hand because of the increasingly poor infrastructure conditions and the increasingly difficult situation of access to key public services. It is clear that your policy will lead to the bankruptcy of water companies. I was pleased, by the way, that Minister Szijjártó, in his speech before the agenda, thanked those who worked for the maintenance of public services, but the fact is that, of course, we should thank you for this sacrifice, but we should not only thank you, but also settle wages in these sectors, and we must create it in order to maintain these public services at all. The situation is, and it has been revealed in the last debate, that there is no solution to the situation in the water sector, either by government representatives, Secretary of State Banai. So there's a good chance that you're going to bankrupt the water companies, and I don't know what the solution is, that you might be entrusting the water supply to disaster management. It is certain that in addition to the huge current problem pool, hundreds of billions will have to be spent on repairs, maintenance that could be saved by proper maintenance, which you fail to do, for which you do not provide the source. Apparently, instead of the current 65,000, there will be about 100,000 kilometers of pipe network waiting for immediate renovation. Unfortunately, next year there will be a market opening for local, inter-local public transport. That's what you're prepared for. Therefore, it is likely that the supply of public transport will be reduced, and this will again be a major disaster for the countryside. You will withdraw from the financing of local public transport. This will also have an imperceptible social, economic and environmental impact. I would ask the Secretary of State to answer the question, if you would do this for me, how many jobs out of 200 billion forints you will create by pushing through the Budapest-Belgrád railway project. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-06-15-24	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2020-06-15-25	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Seeing that the 30-hour debate on the budget was not enough, let us continue in the speeches before the agenda. I think that the debate between us basically starts from the fact that we have a completely different set of values, thus our thinking about the present, not to mention the past, the past ten years, for example, from an economic policy point of view, and in particular from a different perspective for the future. Your speech criticises the part of the budget that provides resources for major investments. Among these, he emphasizes the resources spent on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. You obviously know that the preparation of this investment has been going on for long and long years, and you should also know that this investment creates that Hungary, Budapest, should be essentially Central Europe, with a little more daring thinking about the logistics centre and logistics base of Europe as a whole. Now you're calculating how much support we give to create a job, and you're giving it back, and you're asking why we don't use this money to do it. We do not use it to create jobs, no matter how much resources we spend on building the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and the resources created on the basis of the development and investment and concept for a future, which protect and create jobs, serve the economic difficulties and jobs of the present, primarily caused by the coronal virus epidemic. The two are unrelated. Since the budget is in the state of the budget, rather than in 2008 at the time of the crisis, the budget will have a strong source of funding to protect jobs and create jobs. No one can have the problem, difficulties, problems in the country, when life starts to restart completely from an economic point of view, when orders are back on the March percentage, no one can have the problem that in Hungary there is no job available, that they cannot get a job. As the Prime Minister said, we will create as many jobs as the Crown Virus has taken from us or more, and this is where our thinking differs. I think that from the coronal virus epidemic, it may be incredible for you, that the country, the Hungarian economy, Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families must come out stronger than the coronal virus has caused social and economic problems. In Hungarian, the government has developed a support system under the leadership and control of the ITM, whose aim and purpose is to provide resources that strengthen businesses. For example, the provision of such an outstanding resource is also what the SME provides, which the European Union has authorised to grant investment aid to companies with an aid intensity of up to EUR 800 thousand at a rate of 50 per cent. [[14.20]] Today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade said that more than 800 companies have applied for this proposal, for example, and that the government has been able to grant HUF 170 billion in funding and that nearly HUF 400 billion of investment will be made. That's the difference in thinking. You're looking for numbers, you're looking for why, why, why, why the future needs to be improved. Why build a railroad to Belgrade? I think that the macro numbers of the budget are also in place and reflect what the Hungarian economy will be able to achieve next year with such support, with the help of the government. As far as water utilities are concerned, the government will not let you down. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] will not allow these companies to perform their services. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-26	Now it's Agnes Vadai's turn.
u2020-06-15-27	Dear House, One country is now concerned about the question: if everything is almost as it used to be when the baths were opened, if you can go to a restaurant, if you can shake hands now, then why do you need to maintain the shopping lanes? What's the point of meeting people over 65 and under in many places, but not in grocery stores, drugstores and pharmacies? I know that information is not very strong for political systems such as yours, especially for accurate information, we have seen this during the epidemic, but I think it is almost time to speak frankly about it. So take the courage to stand up and don't talk about a subcommittee coming to meet, suggesting to another hymi-humi committee, suggesting to the operational tribe, and I don't know who, and then they'll decide when the time band will end. Please stand up and tell the Hungarian citizens when the purchase restriction will end anyway! The title of my speech, which is that it would be good to buy the way it used to be, but it is not inspired by this very important topic, but there is another aspect on which I think it would be better to buy the way it used to be. For ten years, we have been listening to the endless government success propaganda about how the family-friendly national Christian government has defeated the liberal background power of serialists in migrant skins. In the meantime, of course, there is one thing they don't like very much about, and they don't really have the courage to do it, and that's the facts and statistics. So allow me to give you a few statistics, and let me be the benchmark for the year 2008, what it was like to shop then, and what it was like now, and perhaps you will understand in my speech why I chose 2008; but I tell you so much that Gyurcsány. For example, in the second half of 2008 a litre of petrol cost HUF 238 on average, today, due to your tax increase, it costs HUF 344 in addition to low world market prices. A kilo of pork was 1090 forints, today 1610. One kilo of bread, 245 forints, today 363. One kilo of potatoes was 108 forints in 2008, today it costs 317 forints. And before you get involved, I'd like to point out that I've cross-referenced the statements and official statements of the Central Statistical Office. And then let's look at the euro exchange rate, which, if it goes above 300, the government failed, and we need a new election, said Tibor Navracsics in 2009. In 2008, according to the central bank, the central exchange rate of the euro was 252 HUF, and today we should be happy if this exchange rate is close to 350 HUF, because not so long ago there was one euro. The facts show, therefore, that under your administration, our money has been devalued and everything, but everything costs a lot more, from gasoline to food to medicine. Of course, the Louis Vuitton bag might be cheaper, so you can comment on that, not so much. And then let me give you two more numbers. [[István Szilárd Németh: He has a salary of two million in Parliament.]] In 2008 the minimum pension was HUF 28 500. And do you know how much now? Exactly 28 500 forints. In 2008, the family allowance for one child was HUF 12 200. You know, today, after 12 years, what's that? Exactly the same amount. And that's because it was raised during the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány, but you didn't raise anything on it. [[István Szilárd Németh: You have one more minute!]] I would like to ask: is this family-friendly national governance? Do you know that? ! You have failed people, families, the elderly, and you simply refuse to face these facts after ten years of government. How does it exist that you have essentially unlimited power, bathed in billions of EU euros, and have performed so poorly in the social field over the past ten years? Of course, we know that you like to lie. We also know that you're very good at embarrassing, dirty, character-murdering. We all know that. All we have to do is steer! Because when the nearly 400,000 Hungarian citizens who have become unemployed and do not receive a penny or support are getting more and more angry and ask why they do not receive it, it will be difficult to point back at Mohács, and it will be difficult to say that Gyurcsány, because everyone knows that Orbán. I've already suggested an apology to you. I've proposed ten orders. Now I would like to suggest that you take care of other people's families, not just your own. And get this crisis under control, because if you don't, the crisis is gonna take care of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-06-15-28	I give the floor to Csaba Dömötör again.
u2020-06-15-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is also clear from your speech that you are rooting for the crisis, and I find it an interesting attempt to compare the Gyurcsány era with the present one, in a positive sense. I don't want to continue with you, so let's see how much more this government spends on, among other things, the areas you mentioned. Let's start with, say, the social field. Here's the increase, if I start from the 2020 budget, it's 139 percent, so we're spending more than double what we're spending on you. These are still the facts, Madam honourable Member. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I heard that last week!]] These facts are carved in stone.
u2020-06-15-30	Congresswoman, please be quiet and listen to the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I can't hear you, Mr. President...]] Can't you hear me? Because he speaks a lot; that's why he doesn't hear. Here you go. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not enough! Grumble in the benches of DK.]] And loud, too. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2020-06-15-31	So, we're spending more than twice as much on the area you mentioned. When we talk about retirement benefits, there is a 42 percent increase, and in health care, we are talking about an area that is often raised by 77 percent growth. Those are the facts. Of course, I consider it a left-wing tradition to try and get this to go away, but these are still the facts. On the other question: the leader of the LMP faction can no longer be present, but I would also like to tell him that we do not want to respond to lies. We don't want to respond to lies, we want to reject them. And as far as the time band of pensioners is concerned, we can also agree that it is worth constantly examining the support of certain anti-epidemic measures. I would add that all the measures taken so far have pointed in the same direction, and that is the protection of human life. And so far, these measures have fulfilled their expectations, because Hungary is among the most defensive countries. And the fact that you are already demanding that we return quickly and return to normal as soon as possible proves that we have managed to avoid the situation in Spain and Italy. But since the virus is still present, we can only return to our normal lives with caution and strict schedule. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a much more intense presence of the virus in other countries and there is a risk that it will return in the second wave. I would also like to tell you that the shopping time band is for the protection of the elderly, because you know very well that they are the most vulnerable age group, not only in Hungary, but in all the countries affected by the epidemic. The government can decide on the existence of the time band as soon as possible on Wednesday, but before it does so, it will definitely agree with the operational tribe. There is probably a consensus between us that it would be good to get back to normal as soon as possible, but human life still needs to be protected. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you may have missed this issue in the national consultation questionnaire, right away on the first question. This is an unconventional issue in terms of the possibility of identifying more than one response; so what we are looking for is what we want to see clearly is what the most supported measures are. By the way, you have the right to ask why we do not ask professionals in these matters. The government already did that. We know what experts are proposing, but they are saying that they are the most effective measures to combat the epidemic, which have high social support. And since we've just bought some time to fight this epidemic, it's worth consulting on. We are also curious about the support of curfew, border lock, digital education or the limitation of events. [[14.30]] As for the other issues in the consultation sheet, there is a case for protective equipment, a common burden [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Therefore, multinationals and banks should contribute to the cost of protection. We see that you believe that the municipalities do not have to contribute, and we are debating this. But the questionnaire also says that the Hungarians support the free internet during the epidemic for families with school children. These are not raw ideological, not crude political issues, but matters that affect people's everyday lives. I therefore urge you to break up with your blocking tradition so far, and now do not interfere with the consultation, but participate in it. Don't spend your energy campaigning for Hungary to get less EU money in the coming years, but take a stand on these issues! Don't rip the questionnaire, just grab a pen. But if they don't, it's actually a first step by not making camuvides. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What kind of camuvide did I make?! Csaba Dömötör: No ventilator! That's what it was! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-32	It's Tamás Belling's turn.
u2020-06-15-33	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to address two current issues, in relation to the municipalities, and the issue of reconstruction, development and job creation. Current, since the House is discussing next year's budget, and it is current, because it has become public today that the European Union is not abstracting funds, as the government is in the current situation, but will provide some HUF 3000 billion of non-refundable funding to Hungary next year, and it will also provide Hungary with nearly HUF 2500 billion of loans. In recent days, the Prime Minister has personally claimed that more money will be made available to the municipalities. This, of course, states by itself not only that it is a slippery, but also that it is effectively false. You are threatened by this question, and perhaps your constituents are disturbed by it, no wonder they also live in these settlements. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, while the local government will receive more as state aid next year, it will be a net loser of next year's budget with various withdrawals, by withdrawing the total amount of the car tax, which will increase from 50 billion to 95 billion this year, by a brutal increase in the solidarity contribution, which will increase HUF 43 billion to 160 billion, i.e. fourfold. The special economic zones will also take funds from the local authorities concerned, and we can also bring the loss of parking revenues into this line. And let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of party standing, the vast majority of the local authorities were honest in their defence, and with their own resources in health protection, and even in their own economic impact, they stood up for their citizens, whether they shared masks or helped the unemployed, whether in the local economy, to help small companies. These resources will not be returned or helped by you to the municipalities, but will be subject to further restrictions. But there could be another way, my fellow Members. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said several times during his defense that he sees Austria as an example, as a model, perhaps even the word "labor" has left someone's mouth to see what they are doing there, and if it works well, let's take it over. Why did this end, fellow Members? Chancellor Kurz, also chancellor of a right centre government [[Dr. Bence Rétvári laughs.]] , €1 billion, i.e. €300-350 billion in immediate support, regardless of party standing, to all governments in distress in Austria. This could be treated in this way, fellow Members. But we think that we should talk not only about the momentary amounts, but also about how local communities, local governments could be involved in reconstruction, because there is a great deal of knowledge, experience and information. We therefore believe that it is worth giving money and a steed for territorial development based on local resources and partnership. We offer two programmes to the attention of the government, which could not only be a dream, but also a reality, if you agree. The first is the energy insulation and rationalisation of the housing stock, which could reduce energy consumption by 40 percent. You know that this could reduce our import exposure, reduce emissions, reduce air pollution, and have a very good impact on health, obviously on the financial situation of the citizens concerned. For this reason, we propose to launch a HUF 500-500 billion programme in 21 and 22 with the aim of involving local governments in this way, with non-refundable support and reduced credit, the support for the insulation of family houses, panel houses, brick buildings and other residential buildings, the opening switch, the modernisation of heating and energy production systems and the provision of solar energy, in which the municipalities can help a great deal. The other topic is also a huge public building programme, the rental housing programme. They know that young people don't stand a chance to start a career, and they know that there are up to three generations now living in one apartment, and that should be a step forward. We recommend that the state build 40,000 new flats worth 1000 billion forints out of the 3,000 billion that are now opening. We propose, ladies and gentlemen, that domestic companies, with domestic products, help the people living here and the re-launching of jobs, create domestic jobs. Let's hope they do. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-15-34	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor. [[Károly Kontra begins his speech without tone. Interjection: We can't hear it! There's no sound!]] Let's try this again, and if it's no good, I'd like a hand microphone for the Secretary of State. [[They put a hand microphone in front of Károly Kontra.]]
u2020-06-15-35	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a strong, proud European country today, a country that can protect its citizens. Thanks to the consistent governance of the last ten years, we have been able to protect Hungarian people and effectively combat the coronal virus epidemic. The first battle against the virus has been won, the plague has been contained. The municipalities have contributed to this in a different way. We did not receive much assistance from left-wing municipalities, and the necessary cooperation was also lacking in many places. Today, left-wing municipalities often seek only excuses as to why they could not act, why they could not stand up for their employees, workers, people, why they could not make any investments, for example why they could not start renovating the Chain Bridge. It can be said that the left can't build, that the left can only destroy. We look forward to the start of the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the budget for next year, I would like to say that you yourself have also made grave errors in your contribution to this agenda. In the past, others have said that the local governments are bleeding out, dissipating, and the municipalities are being squeezed by the government instead of supporting it. Let us look, fellow Members, honourable Parliament, at the specific figures, the figures that the government has put before this House in the draft budget law of 2021, and we have had the opportunity to discuss them in a 30-hour time frame last week. We will also start with a debt consolidation of nearly HUF 1300 billion in the local government system, and from 2013 onwards, a significant change in the financing system has taken place, and we have switched to task financing instead of the previous financing system. The central budget support system of local authorities is adapted to the tasks of the local government in 2021, and we can say that this proposal for a budget law provides the necessary resources for the successful performance of municipalities in 2021. Specific figures: Local authorities can manage some HUF 3000 billion in 2021, with a central budget of HUF 857,8 billion. Compared to the budget of HUF 739 billion in 2020, this represents a 16 percent increase, namely HUF 118 billion. So the municipalities will receive 16 percent more in 2021, honourable Member, than they were given in 2020. I think this song speaks for itself. The focus of the budget is on re-launching the economy in a difficult situation by the coronal virus epidemic, maintaining epidemiological preparedness, but despite the economic difficulties, the resources needed to finance compulsory tasks of the local government are provided by the proposal to individual municipalities, which need further assistance due to their local positions. According to the bill submitted, the government provides a HUF 200 billion credit line. [[14.40]] So, honourable Member, we have the security systems, the security resources that are needed for effective and successful management. We also have the objectives that we strongly recommend to the municipalities: support for families, further increase in employment, and measures to increase living standards, with particular attention being paid to helping parents get back to work. The government has given priority to institutional children's meals and to the tasks of providing holiday meals. Significant resources continue to be available for these purposes and resources for the development of municipal cuisine continue to be provided. In addition to the above general principles, next year's objectives for municipal funding: predictability, maintaining stability, strengthening fiscal conditions for management without operational deficits. As far as reconstruction is concerned, my fellow Member, you have mentioned that many municipalities object to this budget in connection with the reconstruction. Let me offer your attention to the statement made last weekend by István Bóka, Mayor of Balatonfüred, in which Mr. Mayor said, for example, that the Balaton region has received high-level development resources in recent years, that the Balaton and its region have obtained hundreds of billions of dollars of development resources, so that the Balaton municipalities are in a position to carry out their responsibilities successfully and effectively in 2021, taking into account the position set out in the 2021 budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-36	I now give the floor to the leader of the Jobbik faction, Peter James.
u2020-06-15-37	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, We're about to vote on the Powers Act again, so it's time to sum up. Let's sum it up. Colleagues, have you done everything you've done in the last three months? Did you get everything you wanted? Let's see. Casinos have been turned over to their buddy Garancsi with a profit of ten billion a year. The Balaton has been replayed by Lőrinc Mészáros. The Budapest-Belgrád railway line was well-expensed from 700 to 1700 billion forints, but we can't find out why, because it was also encrypted for ten years. And finally Viktor Orbán's dear son-in-law, István Tiborcz, also received a few billion forints. So, if I'm right, the family business wasn't so repelled by the virus, was it, fellow Members? Of course you didn't, because you needed unlimited power to make unlimited money during the epidemic. Do you want to tell me how much the family fortune has increased in three months? Just because you know a lot of our countrymen have lost their livelihood here, half a million Hungarians have no jobs, and those who have a job have also lost their salary. And in this situation, it is extremely irritating, when, let's say, instead of taking yourself a little bit back, the Prime Minister of Hungary continues to gloat through his relatives and his buddies, and, by the way, he sends police to government-critical facebookers and confiscate private companies with state power, or he's taking away the assets of the municipalities, because that's the result of your extraordinary power, and half a thousand dead, thousands of sick, fired hospital directors, half a million unemployed, bankrupt companies. All in three months! And after that, should we be apologizing to you for refusing to vote for this insanity for an unlimited period of time? Fellow Members, do you know who has to apologize here? For those of you who have gained unlimited power, unlimited responsibility. You have to apologize here and now to the workers who have not been protected from their jobs, from patients who have been thrown home from hospitals, from those who have lost their loved ones, from the nurses who have stood up without protective equipment, and I could tell you more. Colleagues! The Czech Prime Minister, well, he was able to stand up to the public and apologize to his own people. Will your prime minister be able to do that? Or I shouldn't be pulverizing such moral heights, right? Colleagues! The extraordinary power could have been used for so much that it would have been a little better for this people! It could have been used to finally show us what the real national cooperation is, which means that not only the workers bear the burden of this country, but also the billionaires who have become filthy rich thanks to you. You took the government's money with a pen stroke. Now, just as quickly, the Mészáros Lawrences could have been taxed to save jobs that have been lost by hundreds of thousands in the last three months. Now you're telling me they're left without a job to go to public service and become a soldier? ! Colleagues! The future of a country cannot be built on public workers and soldiers, nor is it necessary. There are 2,000 billion forints of free-to-use EU funds in this country, and this money could be used to kick the engine of this economy. What are you doing? They fire the guy at work, then expect him to find a job in three months. Well, I can't. Extreme power could also have been used to increase the time and amount of unemployment benefit. And it's not aid, it's a legitimate service for paid taxes, so that someone in trouble doesn't rattle water, but has the opportunity to find a job and find a job. But, sir, with extraordinary power, you could have arranged for the wages of health workers to be paid, so that there would be no shame in making less money as a nurse during the plague than before the outbreak. They could've used extraordinary power for so many things, but all you did was steal, destroy, threaten, and, of course, you've done it before. And after that, should we really be the ones to apologize? ! They're very funny. Do you know who we have to apologize to? The voters who were disappointed that we still couldn't send your vile system to the dump of history. Yes, from this point of view, we are indebted to the Hungarian nation, and this debt will be repaid by us good people, because we will not rest until we have replaced your vile system. The political career of Fidesz began with a change of regime, and I promise it will end with another. Finally, allow me to deliver the message of a Szerencs Facebooker to the absent Prime Minister, who was taken from his home by the Hungarian police for this sentence at the dawn of May:, You are a cruel tyrant, but remember, the dictators have all failed so far! Give it to me! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-38	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, I'd like to start from where you started when we were going to vote on the delegation bill this week. Let's go over what you said about the authorisation bill. On the one hand, he spoke of the fact that the delegation law serves nothing but the crowning of the Prime Minister. He talked about how the Powers Act is actually a coup d'état. He talked about it being a lifetime warrant. He talked about us being in a South American military dictatorship. It's just a one-minute Google search that resulted in a collection of [[Peter James: What is a soldier doing in the hospital?]] What you have said in recent months, what lies you have made about the delegation law on which you have confirmed that the Parliament will vote to withdraw it this week. What's this if it's not a contradiction? Plus, it's a contradiction that you've been caught up with before the lame dog on this one. He made a very clear statement of lies, only to support this lie with the more bluffing signs he could find. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right!]] But he was clearly not telling the truth. The Coronary Virus Protection Act served to protect life and health [[James Peter: And the protection of your wealth!]] and the protection of jobs and the creation of new jobs. And what the Crown Virus Protection Act was about, which you didn't support, allow me to give you a few numbers on this. The number of active infected people in Hungary was 1028 on 15 June and 2485 were cured. Unfortunately, we've lost 563 people. The number of tests carried out is 235,000. The epidemic is decreasing, the number of active infected has started to decline on 4 May, which has continued since then, and the reliefs that have been taken since then have not increased the number of infected. If we look at the deaths per 100,000 people, all lives are many, but in Belgium 84, in the UK 63, but in order to bring the neighbouring countries here, we talked about 7-8 dead in Austria, while in the case of Hungary we can talk about 6 dead. If you look at these numbers, it is quite clear that the delegated act, the law on the control of the coronal virus, was necessary, important for the control of the disease, and has explicitly contributed to the successful closure of the first stage of the control of the epidemic. [[14.50]] But in order to keep the mood going, there will also be a second and third stage of the fight against the epidemic, so you have been caught in a lie by the public and Hungary, but even if you do not apologize, you will still have the opportunity to improve: you have to vote on the related legislative amendments. For example, vote on the legislative amendment to the outing, and you will do at least a little more to protect against the epidemic than you have added so far, which was a huge non-voting vote, so the Hungarian people expect even more from opposition representatives. He also spoke about next year's budget, Congressman. Here's a few things I'd also like to clear up. On the one hand, the 2021 budget is quite clear that each area can have more resources than this year, while the annual deficit remains below 3 per cent; an economic growth of 4.8 per cent and a fall in public debt can be expected. In addition to the priority of economic protection and protection against epidemics, support for families is also crucial, HUF 2295 billion is available for this purpose. 2115 billion are available for healthcare, which is HUF 918 billion higher than the 2010 budget. Education expenditure is also increasing significantly. We will rebuild the 13th month pension, and there will also be significant reinforcements in the area of law enforcement and defence. So what's going on is a tax reduction, a reduction in contributions, a wage support programme, investment support; we don't want to give people aid, we want to give them jobs; and the wages and support of families, vulnerable people and pensioners are rising. Finally, if I may say so, I thought of the words of former British Prime Minister Lloyd George: "There are politicians who should be punished to live up to the standards of their speeches. If that were the case, it would be very bad for you. Thank you very much. [[Tibor Nunkovics: You would starve to death! Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-40	Next up is Miklós Soltész, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The first priority since the announcement of the emergency, since mid-March, was to save people's lives, to reduce the epidemic, and later to further protect the elderly and chronic patients. Hungary and the countries of the region have done well in their defence. Tragedy and sorrow for all the deceased, we wish them peace and comfort for the relatives, yet, compared to South, Western and Northern Europe, the Central European region has done well in defence, so Hungary has also done well in defence. Let me give you some figures: the number of dead per million in France, Spain, 418 and 592 respectively; Belgium, 798; the Netherlands, Sweden, 333 and 374 respectively; Hungary, 58. For the Parliament and Parliament not to meet, Szabó Timea here in the House on April 20 lied:. Just to be clear, most people die in the coronal virus epidemic throughout the round world in Hungary. Mr. Parliament! The successful epidemic treatment had many components. First, the organisation of the health care system, doctors and nurses, as well as the sacrifice of excellent workers in nursing homes; second, well-organized and step by step thought-out protection. Thirdly, it was also important that during the emergency, a large majority of people were responsible and disciplined; and fourthly, the acquisition of protective equipment, even when there was a great shortage in the world. However, the successful defense and its continuation have been attacked from many places. Brussels has done nothing, its disease control is equal to zero. Meanwhile, we were defending ourselves, and what did they do? Once again, they threatened migration, negotiated a compulsory resettlement quota. Speculators, György Soros, have launched an attack on forints, and they want permanent debt to our countries and countries. The Hungarian left, from Gyurcsány to Jobbik [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Pathetic!]] has not supported the announcement of an emergency. Their statements, their actions, they judge them. Anna Donáth said: "When the first case of the Crown Virus was registered in Hungary, i.e. it turned out that Iranian students were the first, our first reaction was that there was no such thing. It is not possible for Viktor Orbán to be so lucky that he is not an Italian student or a Hungarian citizen who is the first infected. Gergely Arató went beyond the woman with the moment:. This is not a bad issue of the country either. He told me about the deaths. Lajos Korózs, the lie of Timea Szabó, not to mention the whole fake news production. He wanted to attack the pensioners through us, István Vágó, Mónika Lamperth and the others too, instead of looking around and helping Gergely Christmas, seeing what is happening in the nursing homes in Budapest. Dear Parliament, The campaign of the left-wing country, the defence players, has not ended, but much more is the problem that neither the pandemic, nor its second wave, can return, so it is necessary to have a national consultation in which we ask people about several important areas. In the event of a return of the epidemic, it is important that professionals' struggle is supported by the greatest social consensus to protect protective equipment, devices, restrictions, elderly homes or free parking. It is also important to strengthen Hungarian businesses: OSH, the production of domestic protective equipment for domestic products and services. It is also important to have a national consultation that we also ask for answers and support in order to strongly reject György Soros's rampage both in relation to the plans for eternal bond and migration. Dear Parliament, We know that we cannot count on the left-wing opposition; they have never thought in the nation. If they were to launch a left-wing consultation at all, they would only have one question about when to lie: morning, night, night, or every day. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP party association remains in favour of the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-42	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2020-06-15-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, thanks to the fact that the Hungarian people have joined forces, whether they are doctors, health workers, law enforcement workers, social workers or civilians, Hungary has been more successful in defending itself against the coronal virus epidemic than in several countries, and this can be seen in different sets of data. For example, you quoted the number of deceased persons per million inhabitants. This is better in Hungary than in Turkey, Finland, Romania or Austria. In Hungary, the rate of death per million inhabitants is half as high as Denmark or Germany; thirds the size of Luxembourg or Switzerland; sixths the size of Ireland or the Netherlands; sevenths the size of Sweden; tenths the size of Italy or Spain; and fifteenths the size of Belgium. Thank you, everyone, who has taken part in the defense, and indeed, this is the national unity that you have created in your defence against the Crown Virus, for taking your part in this challenge. And that is obviously why it is also important to have a national consultation to ensure that the unit that has been created to protect against the coronal virus is also available in the country through the consultation for future stages of protection. On the other hand, if I look not at the countries, but at the results of the capitals, we can see a reverse sequence of numbers, because if we look at how the proportion of infected people in the capital is compared to the national average in Hungary, this is two and a half times the number of infected people in Budapest, i.e. two and a half times as much as the national average. It was worse for five capital cities: Bratislava, Helsinki, Berlin, Moscow and Brussels. And almost all the other cities had better results, so better performance than Budapest was Copenhagen, Dublin, Washington, Paris, Sofia, Oslo, Prague, Warsaw, Madrid, Athens, Lisbon, Riga, Stockholm, Vilnius, Ljubljana, Amsterdam, Bucharest, Zagreb, Vienna, Tallinn, Berlin, London and Rome. This shows, then, that it doesn't matter whether a government or a capital leadership is on the front line of defense against the Crown Virus. [[15.00]] Honourable Congressman, The opposition could not be expected here in Parliament, because they did not support anything that would have helped to protect against the virus, but not outside Parliament. No one would know who Németh Athina was today if Szabó Timea had not referred to her here at the plenary session of Parliament. No one would know who this woman was if, in the committee led by Lajos Korózs, Timea Szabó did not want to show through his example why the protection against the Hungarian epidemic was not successful. And no one would know who Athina Németh was, if Lajos Korózs hadn't made his video of it, standing in front of the Hungarian rescue service in Markó Street, and it wouldn't have made it seem that it was a registered medical worker who, as a medical worker, really works at one of the health institutions. Turns out he doesn't work at the ambulance service, and he didn't work. The rest were separated from him, not by the state, but by private rescue services, that he didn't work there either, and it turned out that he didn't appear in any health register, so he doesn't work as a worker or a paramedic. But not only the politicians mentioned above, because Bertalan Tóth was one of the first to share this Facebook post with Lajos Korózs, but everyone from the Financial Times to Euronews did so that everyone in Hungary, but also worldwide, would know the name of Athina Németh and refer to him when they wanted to attack the Hungarian coronal virus. But we can also remember when they wanted to generate national news from a castle palace case with the help of the Pawcs, when they said that there was also a person who was unable to take care of himself out of the hospital in Castle Palota. Then later, the mayor had to clarify the situation that the city hospital was otherwise exempted, so such a situation could not have occurred. And we can also remember when the aforementioned politicians and the aforementioned orgasms also tried to make the case in Orosháza national, and this was successful for a few hours when they said that someone had been dismissed from the hospital and died the following day or days in his home. But as it turns out, the hospital offered to keep the patient in his care unit, but knowing his own condition, he decided to go home and spend his last days at home rather than in the hospital's care unit. They also wanted to create an unjust attack on the government. ♪ And everywhere behind it ♪ [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] opposition politicians or similar international anti-government organs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-44	Finally, on behalf of Fidesz, I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz.
u2020-06-15-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We obviously did not plan for this year on 1 January 2020 because we had every reason to be optimistic, the Hungarian economy grew at a record rate, there have never been so many people in the country before, and of course there have been many problems and tasks to be solved, but we are more motivated by this. However, the plans for 2020 were overwritten by the corona virus epidemic not only in Hungary but throughout the world. The priorities changed when the new threat came, and the most important thing was to protect people's lives from the virus. We can now say that Hungary has successfully overcome the first phase of the epidemic, that there has not been a mass infection situation in the country. However, the introduction of a special legal order was essential for a successful defence. Dealing with the crisis has depended on taking decisions in time and on the government's ability to react quickly enough. What did that mean? There was no less to be done than to reorganize the country's life. With considerable effort, the health care system had to be prepared for the potential peak of the epidemic, so that everyone had a chance to recover. To this end, it was essential that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' tireless efforts were to successfully obtain the necessary protective equipment. Despite all the difficulties, we managed to switch to digital education in schools and complete this year's graduation to ensure that students can continue to learn. One of the most impressive examples of joint cooperation is that the Halas Epidemic Hospital was built in just three weeks. We have also seen that the operational tribe met every day and has taken the necessary measures on an ongoing basis. In addition, one of the most important tasks is to protect the economic results so far, minimise damage and restore the economy to growth. For the people, the two most important measures were the introduction of a credit moratorium and the protection of jobs, under which the government took over up to 100 thousand forints of employees' wages. But the question arises as to what the left has added to dealing with the epidemic. If I had to give you a short answer, I'd say nothing. In fact, if we look a little more closely at what they were doing, we can say that they obstructed defence, called dictatorship, and threatened their petty political goals. They did not vote in favour of the special law bill, which served as the basis for defence. They spread their mouths to the press, and they ran abroad to build a dictatorship. Since then, we have also learned that according to György Szilágyi, the new philosopher of Népszava, the Prime Minister, if temporarily, has taken power for good. They were constantly criticizing and trying to undermine the government's actions. We remember when they were trying to get a signature against graduation, and they were trying to scare parents and students. It was a petty move, fellow Members. They tried to discredit the government and the ruling parties with false news and camuvideos. Timea Szabó said here in Parliament that most people around the world die from the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary, and Gergely Arató in DK ventured to say to the death figures that unfortunately this number is not bad either. From these, it seems that protection against the virus was not the most important thing for the left, but something quite different. I was constantly alarmed that there wasn't enough protective equipment. When it appeared that their own voters didn't believe it, they changed the communication panels. At first, they said there was protective equipment, but it wasn't good. Now they're saying there's protective equipment, but what's the point? In the Kamuvideo, presented by Lajos Korózs, they tried to discredit the government with lies without blinking their eyes, and now, when they're caught, they won't take responsibility for it. Although, to be honest, it explains a lot that the left has politicians like Athina Németh. The fact that Lajos Korózs is still in the chair of the People's Welfare Committee is saying a lot of things. The left could have proved itself in one place, in the capital, but here the only focal point was formed in the elderly home on Pesti Road, which is reserved in the capital. The citizens of Hungary can still count on Fidesz and the government. Thank you, everyone, who has been involved in the work of defence in health care, law enforcement, the social sector or in everyday life. I would urge everyone to give their views and to complete the national consultation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-46	To reply, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The first battle was won against the Crown Virus, the plague was contained. The second battle is to protect and preserve jobs. Unfortunately, we must see that, as in the first battle, we cannot count on the help and support of the left in the second. The left pulled himself out of responsibility, we didn't see them anywhere where work took place. Meanwhile, fake news production and obstruction have been perfected throughout the process. But we do not, of course, ask for the crisis management that the left can offer. Their proposals also show that they have learned nothing from their past mistakes, and that they would continue their policies based on the sale of the country, the taxation of Hungarian families, and humiliating aid where they left off in 2010. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, the Hungarian government decided on Hungary's biggest economic protection action plan. The focus is on job creation; with wage support, tax reductions, zero percent credit and a moratorium on credit repayment, we are all helping businesses in trouble because of the epidemic. 1.2 million Hungarians have already managed to provide some kind of government assistance within the framework of the economic protection action plan. So far, 13 036 jobs have submitted applications for job protection wage support to 164 896 employees. For R &amp; D workers so far [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] 947 companies requested support for 15 483 engineers and IT technicians. [[15.10]] More than 11,000 students have applied for it since the introduction of Student Loan Plus on 1 May, and 8384 companies have so far submitted applications under the employment support programme, with a total of 12 682 jobs. To support the development of SMEs' adaptation to modern business and production challenges, a total of 4,000 aid applications have been received, to be exact 3989, and the investment volume exceeds HUF 150 billion and the number of jobs protected through the measure exceeds 100,000. The investment support programme has so far received more than 806 applications, with a total investment of HUF 376 billion. The number of jobs thus retained exceeds 140,000. In addition, job-seekers can participate in further training and re-training in distance learning and 95 percent of the training fees will be paid by the State. Honourable Congressman, As opposed to the left, which never listened to people, even confessed to lying to them, we ask people's opinions in our decisions. Honourable Congressman, We have therefore launched a national consultation once again, and we are now asking the Hungarian people about the coronal virus and about the measures to restart the economy. By completing this questionnaire, people can express their views on issues that are fundamental to Hungary's future, such as the protection against the Crown Virus, measures to restart the economy, or the latest plan of György Soros on European eternal bonds. We are awaiting confirmation on two important issues. One is the need to prepare for the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic, and the consultation is about the instruments to be given priority at that time. The second topic is the re-launch of the economy, and since we are not building a society based on aid, but on work, jobs must be protected; this consultation is also about tools. Honourable Congressman, The answers to the new national consultation will be sent back by 15 August, and our goal is to establish consensus points on the most important issues affecting all of our lives. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-48	Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-06-15-49	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Dániel Z. Kárpát Z, Jobbik.
u2020-06-15-50	Dear House, I declare that the Government is the 35th Act on Parliament. On 16 June 2020, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated an extraordinary meeting. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. The agenda for today's meeting is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules in relation to the negotiation of immediate questions. Before we begin to take a decision, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine now. [[It's happening. Number of persons present: 167; number of persons absent: 32.]] Thank you. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the content of the departure from the house rules.
u2020-06-15-51	Dear House, The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. OGY Decision hereinafter referred to as the House Rule 65. On the basis of its powers under § (1) of the Act, Parliament shall propose to Parliament the following: the Parliament shall, until the beginning of the ordinary session of the Parliament in autumn 2020, depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Decisions to report immediate questions on the day on which the hour of immediate questioning is on the agenda or on its planned agenda, from the notification of immediate questions on the day of the prevention and the consequences of the human epidemic which endangers the safety of life and property, and after the end of the emergency announced on 11 March 2020, until the beginning of the ordinary session of the National Assembly in autumn 2020; = not later than three hours before the opening of the first week of the sitting, = two hours before the opening of the sitting day at the latest during the second week of the meeting; within the above time limit, the independent Member may also request that, within the framework of the immediate Question Time, he may ask questions by submitting only one such intention for the meeting day; at the hour of immediate questioning, the independent Members may ask a total of one question per meeting, taking into account the order of their questions, taking into account the date of their notification, so that a different representative from the independent Members who have notified the immediate question is present, giving preference to a representative who has not had an immediate question since the emergency order was ordered; the independent Member may ask his immediate question if one speaker from each political group has been given the opportunity to present an immediate question; Article 126 Paragraph 2 of Article 2 shall apply in so far as in the cases referred to in points (a) to (c), the question which has not been raised shall be deemed to be withdrawn and the chairman of the meeting shall give the floor to the next independent representative who wishes to ask the question.
u2020-06-15-52	Dear Parliament, Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/1103. You can get to know him on the website. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House contributed by 166 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention to the derogation from the house rules. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. We will now continue our work with a decision. Following up is the T/10854 of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10854. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the bill unanimously by 167 votes in favour. It follows from the publication of the Annex to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and their Destruction, signed in Paris on 13 January 1993, T/10855. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the House to accept T/10855. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House also adopted this bill unanimously by 166 votes in favour. Dear House, Now, at 3:19 p.m., we move on to the immediate questioning. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break, and I need everyone to leave the meeting room quickly and quietly if you have anything else to do. [[It's a short break.]] [[15.20]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-06-15-53	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mr. Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, asked him to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-06-15-54	Thank you very much, but I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-06-15-55	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Mr. Minister has given Mr. Bence Rétvári the right to reply to his absence for reasons of public affairs. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-06-15-56	We'll wait for the Minister, thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-57	I would like to inform the Member that he will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[On the sign of Tibor Nunkovics:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I'd like to give you a number: 430,000. This is the number of unemployed people in Hungary, the number of people who have become without a living almost overnight and are in a very difficult financial situation. Moreover, this figure has doubled compared to recent years, not that the number of unemployed people in Hungary has decreased in recent years because there have been huge economic advances in Hungary, but quite simply so many people have left the country, so many have migrated abroad, mostly to Western European countries. But what is the reason for this sudden growth? Well, obviously, the epidemic situation and the subsequent economic difficulties, which could have been alleviated if the allegations you said Hungary was performing better, would have been correct. Unfortunately, we do not see this, because Hungary did not have any reserves, otherwise we could have handled this situation much better. Not to mention that you have failed to accept the economic recovery proposals that Jobbik has put forward that could have been used to alleviate the situation. So you have actually failed Hungarian workers, but not only because of this, but also because soon they will inculcate the slave law in concrete, and make the Hungarian workers more vulnerable, especially to the multinationals. Unfortunately, this is the case, even though Péter Szijjártó says that they support small and medium-sized enterprises during the economic crisis. I'm sure one or two can be listed, but most of them have been let down after all. What will be the result? The result will be that the Western countries will recover early because of better treatment, and more Hungarian people, even more Hungarian workers, will leave the country. So I ask you, you accept Jobbik's proposal to introduce the Hungarian quota in Hungarian jobs. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-59	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-15-60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When you speak for the Hungarian workers, you somehow forget to mention that you were in league with them, you have joined a blood and defiance alliance with those who once put Hungary on the brink of ruins, who smeared, taxed and indebted the Hungarian families, and whose unemployment was at its peak. Honourable Congressman, That's why a man should be the one to tell you what Jobbik is today. This party formation has undergone so much transformation in the last few months that it is a challenge to follow it, and I see neither the former faction members nor their voters have succeeded. They appreciate government measures, but they're marching with the people who destroyed the country. In words, they are on the side of the people, but they do nothing for the Hungarian people in times of trouble, they do not vote for an extension of the emergency, they pull themselves out of responsibility and work. So it has shown what the Hungarian people can expect from you: as much as from the other left-wing parties, i.e. nothing. But what do we expect from a party, honourable Member, which, let alone lost its soul if it had any, has eroded everything in its badge that was worth what it could be valued. Instead of the cross, hashtag; congratulations. Honourable Congressman, When you speak out for the interests of the workers, you should think about what you are doing in your position, because people are being sabotaged just as the other left-wing parties are doing, so let's think of Ozd. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-62	Dear Secretary of State, Now I will say a strange thing: I have been on the right side longer than Viktor Orbán, who was a member of the Liberal International in 2000, and before that he led all kinds of youth organizations in the Communist Party. [[Noise on the government side. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're clapping for the Gyurcsány!]] The Gyurcsány, of course. Sure. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You started the election with him!]] Press the button, Congressman, if you'd like to speak up. But to get back to the point. The point, Mr President, is that you did not answer the question, because you do not see the problem that the Hungarians' jobs in Hungary are being lost because the Eastern migrant workers are coming and they are being taken away because companies have concluded contracts with them that they cannot be sent home. Therefore, it is a very regrettable phenomenon in Hungary today that Hungarian people are losing their jobs not because there is no work, but because Ukrainians and workers from different Eastern countries are in a better position. I would finally like an answer to your support for the proposal that Hungarians work in Hungarian workplaces. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-63	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-15-64	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's hard to imagine Ferenc Gyurcsány's man being on the right. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] But, honourable Member, you can come up with plans, you can make suggestions, everything is in action. Your irresponsible leadership in Ozd has shown us what they are capable of, what Hungarians can expect from you. [[15.30]] Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian Government has already provided government assistance to over 1.2 million people in the framework of the economic protection action plan, that more than 13 thousand companies have applied for job protection wage support, and that 164 896 employees have been asked for this support, just as there is a significant need for other government support. We help protect the workplace of Hungarian people and create new jobs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Tibor Nunkovich intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-65	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, Member of the MSZP, Vice-President of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What about the University of Theatre Arts? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. István Hiller: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-06-15-66	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Your Honour, Secretary of State. I want to ask you about the future of the University of Theatre. Indignity raises their voice at home and abroad against the draft which you have submitted in the form of a legislative amendment. First, let's see what they want, then let's see how they want me to remember that both sides are protesting. The bill was presented on 26 May, the main point of which is to place the University of Theatre and Film Arts as a foundation reserve. This means that, in fact, the foundation will be the finalist in the matter of the head of the university, the management, the selection of the teaching staff in an indirect way, and not least in the matter of real estate property. Let's see how they did that. The U.S. administration has been informed of the law amendment from the press. Since November 29th, the otherwise legally elected rector or rector has not been appointed. All of the university's negotiations were rejected. The opposition amendments tabled were swept off. The university representative was not given the opportunity, and it is truly outrageous to express his opinion in the Parliamentary commission. By the way, your opinion, as described in the law, is that the university is recognised as a knowledge centre at both domestic and international level, which is what they want to confirm. What do you want, Mr. Secretary? Please tell me clearly. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What they're trying to do with the university.
u2020-06-15-67	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-15-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Congressman, Mr. Secretary. First of all, let me say with great respect that the name of the institution is University of Theatre and Film Arts, and while it is about the operation and operation of universities, I suggest that we look back on how this worked during the time of left-wing governments. Because left-wing liberal education policy failed badly in Hungary, you would have made higher education pay, which means that all university students should pay today after their studies, a number of young people would have been deprived of the possibility of quality education and the development of their talents, only the referendum initiated by Fidesz-KDNP could prevent this. At the same time, this can be enhanced by the PPPs of left-wing governments that have made the institutions vulnerable. By 2020, therefore, we had to replace 19 PPP schemes worth about HUF 39 billion. Honourable Congressman, In the last two years, the student normative has increased by 40 percent in total, and the measures that we have taken to strengthen Hungarian higher education could be added. This includes changing models, as a country's higher education system can be successful if it is able to continuously adapt to the challenges posed by the age. The process of changing models is already taking place in several higher education institutions, and soon you will be able to join them if Parliament supports this at the University of Theatre and Film Arts. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to finally disprove it. The leaders of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology have consulted several times with the heads of the University of Theatre and Film Arts on the change of model, so the rumors of the opposite of the left-wing fake news production [[The president's ringing the bell.]] its products. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-69	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll give you the floor in return, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-06-15-70	I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for having answered my question in substance as much as 9 percent of the time available, of which about 4 percent was, by the way, given the correct name of the university. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Thank you so much for letting me know about this, I'm afraid I knew before you did. The point is, I'm asking you to tell me, do you want the property, do you want the money, or do you want the spirit? Do you want to destroy the knowledge centre that is the legendary citadel of Hungarian theatre and cinema and its high quality training place to this day? If you just want the building, let me know. If you just want the property, let me know. If you want spirituality, it's something else: the cultural struggle you're announcing will lose it. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-71	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-06-15-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We believe that we have already set the goals clearly in the Higher Education Strategy: a change of model is needed to enable universities to deliver quickly, flexible and effective tasks in line with their own expectations of quality and the expectations of the social, cultural, market and knowledge environments. This will also be supported by the system that will be set up, the future functioning of universities, a state-based trust fund. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw attention here to the fact that, in addition to the management of assets, the Foundation will also be responsible for the operation of education, research, student and teacher support programmes, the provision of support based on necessity, and the promotion of the operation of talent programs. In addition, it allows the institution to have a better operating environment, such as a new status for its employees. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] a new employment relationship will be created, and we can also provide them with a higher wage burden. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: When does the government finally care about one million victims of ragweed? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas has given him the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh nodds.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, nearly a million people suffer from ragweed allergies, and we see that even though there are countless proposals every year, the government does virtually nothing. Civil society organisations have also asked the Ministry, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic to try to make sure that there is a government commissioner, because the ragweed affects countless ministries where there is a need for normal coordination, there are a lot of areas from agriculture through education where action should be taken at the same time. There is no substantial source of protection, but there is huge damage to the national economy. It is estimated at tens of billions of forints that the damage to agriculture is estimated, we do not talk about how much the patient's medication costs, how much the medical background should be used to try to treat this nearly one million allergic patients somehow. I don't know, Mr. Secretary of State, that articles have been published in Germany where tourist magazines recommend German tourists not to come to Hungary during the ragweed season, because this epidemic is unbearable. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Meanwhile, the government's own companies do not have enough money to make the necessary mows, and several questions have been asked that, say, neither the MÁV nor the Motorway Manager have enough resources to do enough mows. You have not been willing to contact the neighbouring countries on my repeated request to try to fight ragweed along a common strategy, since in the long term, a strategy against ragweed can only be successful if we do it together with the surrounding countries. [[15.40]] In fact, it would also be possible for joint action to move towards some kind of common EU resource. Dear Secretary of State, Civilians are suggesting that we finally have a parcel-level survey, because the pollen number you have in Hungary and what you admit as an infected area, these two are not in a thank-you relationship. Please, Mr. Secretary, take this seriously. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-75	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, please.
u2020-06-15-76	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is unique in the region with strict legislation to ensure that landowners and land users in the areas are already preventing the formation of grass flower buds and the pollen planting of weeds. That is why I would like to point out, honourable Member, that, in a significant part, they are always trying to draw the question of grass on agriculture, in order to go through cities, small towns or even villages, there are countless, unfortunately, public areas, road winds, neglected areas where ragweed appears and is equally contagious. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that agriculture alone, and this is a dual matter, with certain plant protection issues, is able to discharge the ragweed, to secure the ragweed-free area, but at the same time it appears in these areas. At the same time, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that when you talk about allergic symptoms, it's not all ragweed. Well, the first allergic symptoms at the end of February, at the first bud fall, are already present in the flowers of different trees, and it's unfortunate when it clearly refers to the ragweed as an infection of a million people. However, I would like to say a few specific points as to what has been done over the past period in relation to the removal of ragweed. Air reconnaissance, official systems, control of external areas, automation of the management of public announcements, the provision of pollen information, the involvement of public workers in the removal of ragweed, the transfer of preventive knowledge to farmers, the question of deflection and the inclusion of this question in the National Basic Study, thus raising awareness of young people, and gathering and sharing information is also an important issue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-77	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-78	Dear Secretary of State, You're not arguing with me when I tell you how many ragweed allergies there are, that's a common number, that's what experts say. What I'd like to suggest to you is that you don't deal with aerial reconnaissance, because you're practically unable to detect areas contaminated with ragweed. There's a lot more pollen than the size of the area you've discovered. And you're right, it's not just the agriculture that's at fault, but, Mr. Secretary of State, today you're going to have EU subsidies paid for areas that are contaminated with ragweed. And there's a list of problems. You're assigning public workers without checking to see if they're allergic to ragweed. There are plenty of areas that need to be touched. Mr. Secretary, I want you to do one thing: let's finally have a government commissioner who oversees this area and finally manage all aspects of it. And one more thing: give me some money to start with, and you can do that parcel-level survey that civilians have been asking you to do for years. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-06-15-79	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-80	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Here, in the second stage of immediate questions, you are asking specific questions. I am convinced that today, when it is June 15th, we can't really talk about ragweed today. Why is that? And that's a completely unrelated reason. That's because the weather wasn't good for him. Now these weeks, when the precipitation intensity is so high, it still doesn't benefit this plant. I am not saying that there will be no grass, I am sure there will be, but at the same time this issue can be resolved not only at government level, but together with the broad sections of society. So that everyone might take that particular tool, maybe wipe out those few main parlagweeds, maybe take it away from the scene, and stop spreading the pollen. The fact that you are clearly always trying to draw this issue on agriculture, let me strongly reject it, but at the same time we all have a responsibility to deal with this issue together. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-81	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, granted the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-06-15-82	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-06-15-83	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long? In response to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-06-15-84	I'd like to wait for Minister.
u2020-06-15-85	I would like to inform the Member that he will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-86	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, People in Hungary who are doing caring work rightly expect the government to acknowledge their hard work, especially after the hard work of the previous months. These people often cared for people who were infected with Covid, or were more exposed to the epidemic, and they also had a lot of overtime, precisely because of that. These social workers, who were left out of the Prime Minister's thank-you video, are incomprehensible as to why they do not receive the one-time payment of HUF 500,000 that the medical staff will receive. About, and the EMMI is counting on these numbers, if all social workers were to receive them, it would cost the budget about 45 billion just once. We all know that this is not a significant amount of money for the Hungarian budget as a whole, so I would expect your answer as to why not all social workers will receive this one-off wage supplement. My second question is that in 2004, when you were still in the Fidesz opposition, our fellow Member, Márta Mátrai, made a proposal for a decision, in which it was that everyone who cared for their relatives at home should receive the minimum wage for this crucified work; if you are a family-friendly government, then, of course, it is very burdensome for families. Quite rightly, the government has raised the home care fee for children and raised it to the minimum wage level, but this has fallen short of those who care for the elderly at home. For example, in most cases, the situation of families caring for elderly relatives living in dementia, who, according to the budget, will receive less than 60,000 forints for this 0-24 hour work, which I am sure is highly appreciated and acknowledged by the Minister. My question is, when will they finally get the same minimum wage?
u2020-06-15-87	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-88	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is true that, in order for Hungary to survive in an epidemiological emergency, it was necessary for many to survive, and this may primarily include health workers, but indeed includes social workers, policemen, soldiers, and all those who have taken part in the defence by exerting their powers, even on the part of the local authorities. This is why it is always difficult to draw the line, because if everyone should, and if the government would like to give more resources to everyone, we thank everyone very much for the work they have done to ensure that protection is effective, but in an epidemiological emergency it is the health workers who have been the most at the heart of the problem and have acted, which is why the government decided to provide them with a one-off allowance of HUF 500 000. [[15.50]] I would like to reassure you that we are also thinking of social workers, because, despite the fact that today there is only a debate on the scale of the economic recession, despite the fact that even the most pessimist predictions at the beginning of the year predicted an economic growth of at least 3.5-4 percent, and, in any case, this represents a loss of more than a thousand billion forints in the next year's budget, we still maintain our previous commitment from 1 January that we will increase the wages of social workers by 14 percent. And as for the home care fee, I would like to argue about it for a longer time, but the only problem is that this increase was also made in the case of young people who were cared for at home because the pro-government representatives voted in favour of it. I am truly sorry that you did not vote for this, and then, after we voted for it, you were also attacked in the Constitutional Court, because you were busy beating up Parliament instead of voting. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-89	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-06-15-90	Thank you for the floor. The Orbán government estimates social workers so much that together with a 15 percent increase, 75 percent earn below 200,000 forints net, so that's the fact. Another fact is that it is very difficult to separate health and social tasks in such a case. I'm sure you've heard about the terrible things that the epidemic has caused in nursing homes, and that's what you could read some of the announcements about. This shows, as a matter of fact, that there is an extra burden on social workers, but not only in nursing homes, in disabled institutions where these workers could not go home, could not meet their own children, or even in the area of homelessness. On the other hand, I am glad that the Secretary of State of Rétvári has handed over the panels for home care, but the fact is that anyone who receives 60 thousand forints to care for his elderly relative living in dementia will not receive this political panel collection to pay the rent. You govern, you can increase the home care fee, do it.
u2020-06-15-91	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-06-15-92	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to stress that Mr President does not appreciate the efforts that the Government is pursuing in order to boost the economy while maintaining the wage increases previously undertaken, but in a situation where we do not see what losses the budget will have to suffer, I think that the wage increase that we will be doing in the social sphere from 1 January should not be the subject of criticism at least. The opposition is in a position to lack everything, but I would like to point out to the attention of the representative of the general net earnings that, at the time of the change of government in 2010, the net average wage was 130 thousand forints, not in the social sphere, and now you are suggesting to us that 15 percent of those working in the social sphere will still earn below 200,000 net after the wage increase. This also shows that, in the last ten years, there has been a rise in wages, even in sectors where, I agree, payments are not sufficiently high today, which has not been experienced in any decade since the change of regime. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-93	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, gave him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-06-15-94	We'll wait for Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-95	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: What is going on here? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-06-15-96	We'll wait for Minister. Thank you.
u2020-06-15-97	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister, without a wallet, responsible for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, an immediate question. It's an address. Minister is here, so, Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-15-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, In September 2018, you replied to my question about how much more Paks II investment is slipping, that safety is the most important thing, not the deadline. A few weeks ago, according to the government's decision, the new Paks project could start working before they were granted the final license for the blocks. That doesn't seem safe. What is the risk associated with this? On the one hand, economic risks and, on the other hand, technical risks. The economic risk is as follows: after authorisation, if all the plans are reviewed, it may not be possible that the earthwork carried out will not be entirely adequate. If this is found out, then it must be corrected, and this will not be two pennies, it will greatly increase the price of the investment, which will still cost more than 4,000 billion. There's also the technical risk. You wanted to start the whole foundation first before approving the plans of the blocks, but even the National Atomic Energy Office considered this to be risky, then you came up with a new proposal, a brighter one, here only digging up the pits, solidifying the ground and building the rift wall can begin before the final plans, but before the final plans it also seems risky, rather like a Mekk master-like DIY. Dear Minister, Why is it so urgent to start construction before the new block installation permit is issued? How much will it cost the taxpayers if the landwork is not adequate? Minister, isn't security the most important thing? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-06-15-99	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Süli. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-15-100	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Member of Parliament, security is the most important thing right now. What we have tabled and approved by the Commission in Brussels is that when we hand over the design documentation for the building to the authorities, we have three months to submit the documentation for the authorisation of the landworks, and three months to the authority to assess this landwork, our relevant licence application. This means that for six months it can be tested in parallel that the building permit for the main building, which contains the location and other characteristics of the block, was in line with the design of the rift wall and with regard to soil extraction. Thus, since the regulatory requirements have not diminished, this is fully in line with international practice. For example, Finns already build the groundwork work on the site without having a site permit, because the permit system is different, but they only have the environmental permit. As I stressed, the Brussels Commission has approved this amendment and we will do the work accordingly, and no authority's authority will be violated. The otherwise slide, because we did not want to start building the base plate in any form before the final licence application, was raised by certain sources of the press; the OAH did not make a statement in this sense, nor can it confirm it today. So we want to do the waterproof gap itself, soil extraction and soil consolidation before the building begins. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-101	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-102	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, If everything is really nice and good and everything is okay, then why didn't the National Atomic Energy Agency guarantee that the landwork they authorized would be good? And why did the legislation, the legislative amendment adopted, include the fact that the resulting financial and technical risks were specifically addressed by the Paks II. Is it Zrt? It's basically separate from this thing. Dear Minister, Brussels has only approved the legal procedure, not the technical one, so there is no need to confuse it. I would ask the honourable Minister that if we can no longer convince you that this investment is too expensive, too dangerous, causing Russian dependence, then you should be so kind as to act with the utmost care and not with regard to business and Russian aspects in this investment. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-103	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-06-15-104	When the Brussels Commission contributes to a legislative amendment, it does not say that it is legally, but that it is also assessing its technical content, so there is no such double standard that I am in favour of the legislative amendment, but I do not support technical implementation. [[16.00]] So there's another slide I read in the press. That's not true. The Brussels Commission responds to us in writing, not through the press. We have written consent to this by contributing to the legislative amendment. The authorities don't want to put responsibility on anyone, he's gonna do this job. The holder of the licence is Paks II. as in all nuclear power plants. If there are any circumstances on which we cannot submit a licence application or fail to comply, we cannot submit it and we do not place any responsibility on the authority. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-105	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "Why are you attacking the national consultation?" It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr János Bóka gave the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-06-15-106	Yes, Mr. President.
u2020-06-15-107	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-108	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In several elections and in a referendum, Hungarians have already clearly expressed their refusal to introduce migrants into Hungary. In recent years, the European Commission has systematically attacked all of our actions aimed at strengthening the common European border and strengthening border protection. We have been prosecuted for breach of obligations in the area of the legal border and transit zones, and three of these procedures are still taking place against us today in relation to immigration. The national consultation has barely started, and Brussels has already launched another attack. Of course, they still object to the issue of migration. The Czech Vice-President of the Commission, Věra Jourová, who threatened Hungary about a month ago with the withdrawal of EU funds, called it last week's false news that the Commission would try to force its aggressive immigration policy on our country, even at the cost of changing the Fundamental Law. However, the truth is that as soon as the supplement to the Fundamental Law came into force, according to which those from a safe country are not entitled to apply for asylum, this provision was immediately challenged by the previous Commission. We have been constantly attacked while working with civil society organisations that not only support but also organise illegal migration. In the case of the 2021-27 financial cycle, the European Commission would triple the EU's support for these pro-immigration organisations. It's a lousy trick to call it false news when someone points that out. Even though they deny it, it is clear that they still have not given up their plan to force the migrant quota to the Member States against their will, and their allies are the left-wing parties. Dear Secretary of State, What can we expect? Will the government take on the conflict with Brussels if that is what it takes to protect Hungarians from migration? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Bóka. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, With the last two questions of the national consultation, the Hungarian Government asks the opinion of Hungarian citizens in the context of border protection and immigration. These issues have been discussed with Brussels in recent days. According to the Czech Vice-President of the Commission, these are false news. Facts, on the other hand, are stubborn. As early as 2015, the Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary for the legal closure. In this case, he brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2018. Meeting the Commission's expectations would result in a continuous, unlimited and irreversible influx of migrants into the territory of Hungary due to the impossibility of repatriation. This is contrary to Article E of the Fundamental Law, according to which the decisions of the European Union should not restrict the inalienable right to dispose of the population of Hungary. In July 2018, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law and the. Stop Soros. The Commission has also decided to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union in this matter. According to his press release, the Fundamental Law is contrary to EU law. It is contrary to the fact that it provides that a non-Hungarian citizen who came to Hungary through a country where he was not directly at risk of persecution or persecution is not entitled to asylum. Since 2015, the Commission has conducted a comprehensive and systematic attack on our rules to protect the border and to stop migration. Like I said, facts are stubborn. It seems that the Commission is even more stubborn than the facts, but I can promise you that if the interests of the Hungarian people so wish and the Hungarian citizens give it a strong mandate, the Hungarian Government will be even more stubborn than the more stubborn Commission. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-111	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-112	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The left has always attacked national consultation, even though it is an important democratic instrument that we can be proud of. There is nothing new about this and it is not surprising, because they did not ask people when they took away their 13th month pension, nor when they raised the rent, nor when foreign exchange loans were released to the country. It's also clear where the wind blows. The publicly available plan of the Momentum party family shows that they want a compulsory resettlement quota, give more influence to Soros organisations, give immigrants citizenship and suffrage, and want to speed up the resettlement of migrants. That's right. And what's so spicy is that the one on the left is a fake that's been caught many times trying to mislead the public by chamomuvide. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As opposed to the left, we consider it important for people to be able to express their views on matters that concern them. We therefore urge everyone to fill in and return the national consultation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-15-114	Dear House, The Government of Hungary comes from what is enshrined in the Fundamental Law of Hungary: only the Hungarian people can decide who they want to live with in their own country. That's a decision no one else can make for them. Hungary's Government also has a constitutional obligation to protect Hungary's borders. This will also protect the European Union's external borders. The Government of Hungary does not seek conflict with anyone, but it is a duty to protect Hungary's Fundamental Law under all circumstances. We ask the Hungarian citizens for a strong mandate to do so, and that is why we encourage everyone to fill in and send back the questionnaire for the national consultation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-115	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why does the future of families evaporate? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-116	Mr President, Dear House, I am looking for the common points from which we can negotiate the situation of Hungarian families. We see that in the midst of a demographic winter and in the face of an epidemiological emergency, when hundreds of thousands of people lose and lose their livelihood without exaggerating, families face unrealistic burdens. Although we think very differently about a lot of things, I say that it should be a rental program for those in difficulty, you reject it; I say that the VAT content of child rearing articles should be reduced from 27 per cent of the EU record to 5 per cent, you reject it; I say that personal income tax should not be paid to Hungarian employees under 29 in order to support staying home, you reject it, but at the same time try to catch a point that we see in the same way. I think that the system of family tax relief can be the one that perhaps all the well-hungry MEPs who are concerned about Hungarian families say that although this is not a Hungarian invention, it is not a very new achievement, but it definitely brings positive, positive changes to the life of a society, so it would be a fool's errand. That's why I'm confused about an unfortunate phenomenon. Since the introduction, family tax relief has been practically a frozen thing. Minimal changes have been made in recent years, but we see that this is not a follow-up to inflation. My proposal for a fiscal adjustment is to increase the amount of family tax relief every year with inflation, so that we can avoid the trap that Fidesz-KDNP has pulled itself into, that half or three of the value of family tax incentives in the last decade has been vaporised by inflation. The question is therefore whether they are willing to change this negative practice, since it would be in a clear and common interest to move in a positive direction not only about family salaries, but also about their everyday sense of security. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-15-117	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister. [[16.10]]
u2020-06-15-118	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that our fellow Member has found something between the government's decisions and its actions that he thinks is worthy of support. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the system of family tax relief, which was re-introduced at the end of 2010, as of 1 January 2011, has been constantly becoming more favourable, especially for families with one and two children. It became significantly more favourable than if it had only followed inflation, since [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's doubled!]] Both in single children and in two children, the rate of tax relief has doubled and has also become deductible from various contributions. It follows that if his proposal had been adopted earlier, the Hungarian families would have been significantly worse, so I would continue to suggest that we increase it, if possible, from year to year. Now I am not going to repeat what I had the pleasure of saying here in this House a few minutes ago, that next year's budget and the situation of the economy throughout the world, including Europe and Hungary, are uncertain, but we will increase these amounts when possible. We have done this to a greater extent than inflation, and that is what we are still preparing for. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-119	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-120	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Don't pretend you don't understand what I'm talking about. You know very well that, in the draft budget before us, there is not a single penny increase in the expenditure involved, which families can account for as a positive figure, according to your statistics, of course, the inflation monitoring may have been achieved. Minister, the fact is that according to your statistics, family support is included in the soccer discount for companies, for women with early retirement benefits after 40 years of employment, so hundreds of billions of forints are reported here, which the only country in the world does not count as family support. So I believe they can forge statistics that are true. I am asking you, however, to increase this item every year, not to sabotage this increase, as you are doing this year, and not to expose the Hungarian families to the possibility that you may raise this item occasionally as a gentleman. There is nothing more important than reversing Hungarian demographic trends, as we are in the middle of a demographic winter. I would like to warn you that there is one of the five years that awaits us when there is the lowest number of children in Hungary. This is an untenable situation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-121	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-15-122	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased with Jobbik's commitment in this area, but I suggest that we look for new allies. Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Socialists do not guarantee that these goals can be achieved, since in 2006 it was precisely the government led by your allies that abolished the tax relief of families with one and two children and reduced and reduced the tax relief of families with three or more children. I think we can agree that as long as there is a civil government in Hungary, the current family support system is ensured. I promise the opposition, the Member and the Parliament as a whole that we will try to expand these frameworks year after year, as we have done in recent years. I think it's right that families who take jobs can write the costs of raising children off their taxes as much as possible, but there's a guarantee of that only if we're on the government. If you and your allies came to government, it would be a repeat of what already happened in 2006. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-123	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What can families expect in 2021? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai has given him the right to reply. [[Some Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Please understand, Congressman. Thank you. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-06-15-124	Yeah, I'll take it. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-125	You have the floor.
u2020-06-15-126	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The focus of next year's budget is on relaunching the Hungarian economy, which is in a difficult position to defend against the epidemic. This is a very right and wise decision, and it is reflected in the number of budgets. The government's aim is to allow the Hungarian economy to return to its former growth path at European level as quickly as possible. To this end, the government launched the largest economic protection programme in Hungary's history. This should be widely supported on our part and on the part of KDNP, and obviously reflected in the budget for next year. The economic protection fund has HUF 2555 billion available for this purpose. In addition, we are pleased to see that Hungarian families will be supported by HUF 2295 billion in the following year. That's a significant amount. The protection of families, which, I think, is the foundation of everything, and the most important for all of us, is also highlighted in the context of the dangers caused by the coronal virus epidemic. In 2010, Fidesz-KDNP put families at the centre of its government policy very rightly. We have seen a number of measures in recent years, including this year, the expansion, growth of the family tax relief, the extra introduction of ged, the introduction of free textbook care, the expansion of free children's meals, the introduction of CSOK and the launch of the baby shower loan, which meant very, very much for families with children. Dear Secretary of State, My question would be what Hungarian families can expect next year. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-127	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Basically, Hungarian families can expect security in 2021, as they have now and have known in recent years. To be safe, because in order for Hungarian families to live well or to live better, three things are essential in my opinion: on the one hand, to have a job, to have a job, to have a job, so that the family supporters can work and thereby earn income! It is very important that this income can support your family. And not least, the government's family policy, that is state aid, direct and indirect state aid; the direct aid that a family can receive in forints or in kind, or indirect aid, which it uses in the form of tax relief. I think that the governance of the last ten years has proved that the government's family policy is right. This has very serious results. There is an increase in the number of marriages and child births. If we look back over the past years, the government has created jobs for some 850 000 employees and has ensured that average earnings have increased by 7 percent on average in the last nine years. Income tax relief is available for families with children, as the government's priority is to support families who want to have children. The costs of raising a child are covered by the government's family support programme and will remain the same in 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-129	I thank you, Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. Indeed, because the child is the greatest asset, the greatest miracle in all of our lives, it is a necessary, important government policy to support families with children. This is reflected in the budget, quite rightly. Since there have been a lot of numbers here today, let me add two numbers: in 2010 thanks to left-wing governments, HUF 960 billion was available to support families, now this figure is HUF 2295 billion in view of next year's budget. So I think this is also a good demonstration of who the Hungarian families are important to. Allow me to thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the Ministry of Finance's work, because, in the face of a crisis, during the period of the coronal virus epidemic, a budget with emphasis on the protection of the economy, the protection of jobs and the protection of families is certainly exemplary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to confirm and confirm by numbers that the government has increased the support of families by two and a half times since 2010, the highest proportion of which is in Europe, since 4.5 percent of GDP is this amount. The total amount you have said is 2295 billion in the 2021 budget. [[16.20]] This is 1360 billion forints more than the government used to support families in 2010. This highlights personal income tax support; it is now an annual amount of HUF 352 billion. Since 2011, it has left a total of HUF 2900 billion in the family. Honourable Congressman, I can confirm that the government will not stray from this family policy path. The budget for 2021 will underpin this in sum only further. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-133	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What's next, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-06-15-134	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-06-15-135	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-15-136	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Minister, There has been a crisis caused by mass immigration since September 2015 and since then it has been extended every six months with no mass migration burglaries expected for a long time and fewer illegal border crossings than before 2015. There is an emergency because of the human epidemic, which is now being lifted, but a number of measures are being put in place that differ from the general provisions, i.e. eliminate the emergency by not eliminating it. They build the lives of Hungarian people on fears, and they deserve peace and security. As a result of the measures, the economy has almost stopped. While the unemployment rate was 3.7 percent in February, it rose to 7 percent in June. There are 330,000 active jobseekers in Hungary, all by expecting many of our countrymen working abroad after the outbreak and going back. You said you could be public workers and soldiers, but you don't need so many soldiers because of the shortage of numbers, and you don't have a job or budget to pay for so many public workers. While professional companies were perfectly able to create epidemiologically safe jobs in two weeks, the government's action was to close everything. Out of about HUF 1 billion, 0.5 percent of the public money paid for buddy support during the epidemic, security systems could have been created for each type of workplace that could have saved every job from an epidemiological point of view. Numerous international corporations will cease their activities. In Veszprém County, for example, in Nemesvámos, the companies of MTD and Continental are closing down and closing down. My question, Minister: Prime Minister, is that as many jobs as they go out of work will be created. I do not see the source of this in the 2021 budget. Please answer me how this is going to happen. Thank you.
u2020-06-15-137	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, please.
u2020-06-15-138	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Based on your question, I hope I have to assume that your official relations with the Jobbik fraction have been interrupted, but you still receive the information that the faction uses. Instead, I suggest that you take into account the figures made public in particular by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology when making similar suggestions, which demonstrate precisely that the government's decisions so far have contributed to the protection of more than 1 million jobs and that we support all investments [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] which creates jobs. I would like to point out that, for three months, 70 percent of the wages lost in countless companies are taken over by the Hungarian state, and we can help 164 896 people to keep their jobs. With wage support for R &amp; D workers, we can help more than 15,000 people; the job-creating wage support programme will help 70,000 people to work. [[Bence Tordai keeps interrupting.]] In addition, until 30 June, 150,000 small entrepreneurs were exempted from the flat-rate payment obligation for kata, and employers' contributions were also released by the government in the sectors that were particularly affected by the epidemic, affecting 210,000 workers. So what I can say is that, of course, we have also increased the framework figures in the Public Works Programme, but I can say that this would be the only option, that is not true. A large part of the jobs have been protected. Without a doubt, and at the very beginning, I told you personally that the question is how many hundreds of thousands of unemployed people will increase. It seems that we will still be among the best at this, because I think the data, which, of course, varies continuously and depending on different statistics, is still close to one. We will also create jobs for them, and the government will provide them with job opportunities. I ask that the legislative proposals to this end [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Now that the representative of the faction has been released, please support me. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-139	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman, please.
u2020-06-15-140	Dear Minister, You're wrong to think I'm not getting information from the Ministry of Finance and not from the Ministry of Finance. It's precisely the data that shows me that what you have promised you will not be able to deliver. We hear very nice numbers here and now, but here's to say, where did the 330,000 jobless people come from if you saved 1 million jobs? Somehow it doesn't work out. The numbers in each speech or reply are always different. If we just look at the government's answers for the last few weeks, it turns out that the data for two answers doesn't add up. I'd be happy to collect it for you. The only thing I know is that without internal consumption, the economy cannot restart. For internal consumption, people need income. And don't forget, Minister, that if people don't have a reserve, then even if we're better off than other countries, the man without a reserve will be a disgruntled man, and the disgruntled man will no longer be a voter. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-141	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to the Minister in return. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-06-15-142	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In order to maintain internal consumption, we have taken the first, I think, key, measure with which we have ordered a credit moratorium. About HUF 3000 billion is the option, which allows for the suspension of these loan repayments in the case of the credit moratorium. So in a clearer and clearer way: 3000 billion HUF is not to be repaid this year. We can see from the figures that about two thirds of people have used it, so only this year's internal consumption could amount to HUF 2000 billion. She also sees that we are trying to support investments if they create jobs, and some of the payments are taken over by the Hungarian state where this is needed. So I think our common goal is that, in such an exceptional crisis, the economic effects of which are extremely serious, the country should be out of the way as quickly as possible. All I would like to ask is that, since there are laws before the Parliament that serve to bring the economy back to a successful start, if the congresswoman supports them, we will thank you and hope that we can continue the debate in the autumn, and perhaps this is our common hope. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That you will be forced to admit that we were right, not the other way around. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I wish...]]
u2020-06-15-143	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: How? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Sándor Szabó's signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the budget debate took place, and I have to tell you that on the pro-government and opposition side, we may be sitting in a movie, but we are not watching a movie, as far as municipalities are concerned, that's for sure. You keep saying that the municipalities didn't take their part in the defense, and we're saying that they were the first ones to help those on the front lines, whether they were doctors or nurses, because you weren't even there when the municipalities provided protective equipment for those on the front lines. You say that they increase the room for manoeuvre for the municipalities, and we say that, in fact, the financial bleeding of the municipalities continues. They put the local authorities in a position where, in fact, the task of basic municipal care is difficult for them. You say they're increasing resources for the municipalities. This may be numerically true, but at the same time it will take two revenues, and then it will be worth HUF 200 billion, which is equal to vehicle tax revenue and is part of the solidarity contribution. By the way, if we look at the total revenue of the entire municipal sector, we can also see that this is nearly HUF 3000 billion; if we take into account the inflation rate you are saying or the central bank, then we can also say that, by the way, local government revenue will decrease by 1.5 percent in real terms in the future. [[16.30]] Tell me, Secretary of State: how and how can municipalities manage? Why do you think that if the municipalities are being punished, they will not be punishing Hungarian households? Opponents and pro-government voters live in settlements, households. If, by the way, the municipalities do not have enough money for their mandatory tasks, then Hungarian households will suffer. Tell me honestly, Mr State Secretary, do you support our amendment, which concerns the return of the car tax in full to the municipalities? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-06-15-145	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2020-06-15-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for recognising that support for municipalities is increasing by number. All he said as a negative thing is that in real terms it's falling by one and a half percent. I'd argue with that. [[Bence of Turda: On what grounds?]] Revenues are falling elsewhere. I'll give you some examples. For example, in families, families where the coronal virus caused them to work in reduced working hours or not to give, their jobs may have ceased, their income will be reduced, or in businesses where orders have otherwise ceased [[Bence Tordai: We are talking about 2021, Mr. Secretary of State.]] It has gone below 50 or 40 percent, and the order volume is now being restored; or, I'm sorry, but, for example, the revenue from the state budget is falling significantly, perhaps even by a thousand billion forints. A thousand billion forints! And you stand up and say that it is the municipalities, the municipalities. And he's saying fake numbers because he's talking about 200 billion forints withdrawal, which is simply impossible. Indeed, the car tax will be 100% public revenue, but its name is also the principle of centralised tax revenue. Now, given the need to contribute, I believe that the municipalities should also contribute to the cost of protection for the country, yes, about 1.2 percent of their tax revenue or total income, under the law. This must be accepted by the municipality. It is not possible that any municipality would be unable to function as a result. You're from Szeged, I'll give you an example. In Szeged, the local tax revenue was HUF 15 billion in the last year, while the car tax revenue was HUF 503 million. 500 million is equal to 15 billion, and then I didn't talk about state aid and other revenues. That's what you're saying, Szeged is going out of order. ? That's not true! It's not real! Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-147	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry to hear, Mr State Secretary, that in that case families are no longer supported, and families have less, he said; if you say that, by the way, I recognise the government's intention to give more to the municipalities. Then you didn't listen well, Mr. Secretary. I said that you wrote that you would give 122 billion more, but by the way, the solidarity contribution, which is 161 billion and the local government's car tax revenue, which is 35 billion, is almost 195 billion. You, I'm sure, are a number man who can draw the difference between the two, then you can see that there is a difference of HUF 70 billion between these two items. So you may say that you give with one hand, and with the other hand you take significantly more away from the municipalities. And if, by the way, you give this much revenue to the municipalities, then tell me, Mr Secretary of State, why is it that they provide a credit line to the municipalities anyway. So isn't this about recognising that the municipalities are in need of resources? And beyond the year to keep the municipalities in debt? Thank you.
u2020-06-15-149	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that you read the budget through to Congressman. When the solidarity contribution to be paid increases, on the other hand, the rate of state aid increases by 16%, by HUF 118 billion. The solidarity contribution and support have simply been grossed up. It was raised on the support side and also raised on the solidarity side. 700 settlements have this method worse, all of them with lower business tax revenues. The guarantee of the credit line will not be over a year, it will be a temporary operating loan framework, the essence of which is that the municipality that temporarily lost the local tax because of the loss of the business tax will be in a difficult situation and believes that it will be able to bridge it with liquid money, quasi-state credit, will not be used by those who do not want to do so. In doing so, the government is only trying to help and not to indebte, to solve a temporary liquid problem, which, by the way, it acknowledges that local tax revenue is expected to be lower than a large number of municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-151	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of the DK Group, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, A week's work for 25,000 HUF? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. You have the floor.
u2020-06-15-152	Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin announced Erzsébet's application for daycare camps for which schools and public education institutions can apply. I think it's right that there is such a thing, the good news is that children can finally get out of their homes after quarantine, and I'm sure this will be a relief for many families, and many of these camps will be pleasant for many children. The question, of course, is why the state does not carry out a public task in public institutions itself, why it is outsourced to a foundation; we may be able to talk about this later. However, there is an extremely problematic point, and this is also mentioned in the notice that teachers indicate that the one week's work they do in organizing the camps and in babysitting there, in child employment, is paid in a generous way, with a cold meal request of HUF 25,000. This was a great shock, and please don't tell me, Mr. Secretary, that the teachers volunteered to do this, because I myself know a teaching district, the East-Pest district, where the school district manager made the applications compulsory for the institutions, and the head of the institutions and the school managers of course have to assign the teachers, because otherwise there would be no one to carry out this task. I would therefore like to ask you that this information is correct and that you consider this amount to be fair. But since we have come together so well, I would also like to ask another question, and that is that the news that the Secretary of State said is true is not you, but Maruzsa, Secretary of State, that school guards can go to school with handcuffs and batons without a police degree, but are prepared after a few weeks of secondary education. Is this news true? Is this real, Mr. Secretary? Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-06-15-153	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-154	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, A complete paradigm shift, as you said, Mr President, because you said that the Elizabeth programme is a good programme, while the opposition, the Democratic Coalition, has always voted against the proposals that we have put before Parliament here, and we have asked for the support of the Elizabeth programme. So please do not press the button to indicate your support, but by clicking the button "yes." Secondly, honourable Member, this is a programme that has not been rewarded in vain with more international recognition, as it is the opportunity for many difficult families to camp in summer, obviously in daycare camps this year. We strive for more than 100,000 young people to reach the Erzsébet camps for a symbolic amount of HUF 100 per day, and to receive various programs. So this is also an extremely important social aid during the break, and I think that this summer the parents need this help even more, because many people have taken their leave during the coronal virus epidemic, which is why they can take less time off during the summer period as a holiday and spend time with their children. At the same time, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that many times today, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it has been said that it is harder for the municipalities to do so, while we are talking about a programme that is usually organised by the local authorities, and even if we consider it a municipal task to organise summer child care, summer camping, and here, from billions of forints, the state is taking on this burden in every case; as you said, schools, public education institutions, cultural houses were allowed to apply here. But if the Erzsébet programme were not, and these daycare camps would not be organised by the Erzsébet Foundation with the state's money, then it would all be up to the local authorities and their costs would be higher. [[16.40]] So I would ask you to look at both sides of the balance sheet pan equally, and also acknowledge that the state is taking a financial burden off the shoulders of the municipalities here, even though Europe's largest social summer holiday programme is not only summer, but also during the year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The state is also implementing its holiday programme. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-155	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to the congressman, please.
u2020-06-15-156	It is a rather unusual solution that the Secretary of State has not answered any of my questions, but he has asked us about our position. Then let me first say that we will not vote in favour of your proposals because your proposals concern spending this public money in an opaque way. If teachers were to pay a decent wage instead of 25 thousand forints, then let us say that Mr. Mészáros would not have 22 billion forints to renovate camps, but to see what this money is going to do. Mr. Secretary. On my count, your weekly salary is HUF 276 thousand net. I know it's hard work being undersecretary, and I'm done, but it's probably not ten times harder than babysitting. Please respond to the fact that you think it's fair for teachers to receive 25,000 forints a month for this job. And please respond to your idea of sending people into school with a baton and handcuffs after a few weeks of training with a secondary degree, no police experience, and no pedagogical experience.
u2020-06-15-157	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-06-15-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Fortunately, there has been a well-established way in recent years, honourable Member, to find out who the teachers who participate in these programmes are, and even other volunteers in sleep camps are involved in this; and fortunately, it is not according to DK's logic. In your time, we had to strive, and it was a huge stand-out from the head of the Zánka centre that he did not allow Ferenc Gyurcsány to use and privatise the Zánka children's camp on a market basis, but it will continue to provide the summer holidays and shared experiences of young Hungarians for generations on a nonprofit and social basis, honourable Member. This is the difference between your attitude and our attitude, and this camp has worked well in recent years, and it still works well. It is also clear that you are attacking the school guard's institution, and we believe that in the 500 schools where teachers are most at risk, these people will be needed to enter as school security officers, they will operate within the system of the police. There's gonna be members of a separate section, and that's how they're gonna get into school. The police will take care of their training, and the police will pay their wages, but obviously their operation will be in order for the school to operate, for the summer break. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and will be adapted to the teaching period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-159	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Will the government immediately raise pensions because of the food prices that are getting out of hand? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-06-15-160	Yeah.
u2020-06-15-161	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-15-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary, allow me to begin with a personal question: do you ever go to the market? Because if so, you can see that the price of vegetables and fruits has skyrocketed. In recent years, the price of vegetables and fruits has increased by 19 percent, while the price of pigmeat has increased by 21 percent, while you have raised pensions by 2.8 percent at the beginning of the year. I think that I am not mistaken if I declare that pensioners in Hungary are now very poor. The rise in inflation-following pensions is a big scam, because the increase in pensions has fallen far behind wage growth. Moreover, the government is under-planning the increase in pensions, so that it can use pensioners' money free of interest during the year. But it's also a scam, because the pension premium doesn't go into pensions. And it's also a scam to calculate inflation because it ignores the retired consumer basket. It has to be seen that pensioners are very seriously affected that, while food prices are rising drastically, average inflation has only increased by 2.2 percent, obviously due to the fall in fuel prices. The pensioner consumer basket includes a minimum share of fuel prices, while food represents a large proportion. How many times a month can an average pensioner buy fresh vegetables and fruit out of 140,000 forints? At the same time, the one-week allowance for the 13th month pension planned for the future does not improve or solve the daily problems of the elderly today. For all these reasons, I would like to know that the government is planning to help pensioners now when they are in trouble because of the epidemic and the rising prices. Is there going to be a pension raise now or not? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-06-15-163	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2020-06-15-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In recent years, the government has submitted a number of legislative proposals to Parliament that have reduced the VAT on basic foods. These proposals were not supported by the opposition. However, at the time of a previous crisis in Hungary around 2006, a general 5% VAT increase was carried out by the left in Hungary. So when they were in government and there was a crisis, they raised the VAT on turnover by 5 percent, and when we presented basic food VAT reduction proposals since 2010, they were not supported by the left. So please do a little self-examination in this case of exactly who and what has done to prevent the poverty of pensioners, given that it was the left who took away the 13th month pension, and the right is the one that gradually, in the years of the crisis, in four years, rebuilds the 13th month pension. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He said there was an increase in poverty among pensioners. Where exactly did you get this data? If you'd be so kind as to tell me. After all, according to Eurostat data, the proportion of pensioners most affected by the risk of poverty and social exclusion has decreased from 19 per cent to 14.5 per cent. Thus, the proportion of pensioners exposed to severe material deprivation fell more precisely over 65 years of age, from 16.2 to 6 percent of older people as reported by Eurostat. Be nice, tell me what you've been basing your own claims on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In recent years, we have raised pensions by 38 percent. This resulted in a 10.3% increase in purchasing value. This 10.3% is a rebuttal of what you have to say. You have claimed the untruth that the government is always underplanning inflation to use the money of pensioners, and that is untruth, honourable Member, you know that. The basis of this 10.3 percent is that there were years when inflation was under-planned, there was when inflation was over-planned compared to what was achieved, and if inflation is lower than planned, then the difference remains with pensioners. No one's gonna take that back, but it's gonna go into their pension, and that's how much the value of pensions goes up. I'll pick it up from here in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-165	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2020-06-15-166	Secretary of State, you know that today your pension is below 100,000 forints. If you go to the market, I think you don't go to the market, then you should also know that pensioners can't even make a soup today, because two sausages cost 1500 forints, potatoes cost 400 forints, and I don't count peppers and tomatoes. And you should also know that if inflation runs like this and food prices skyrocket, and the pension increase is only 2.8 percent, then there is a huge difference between the two. This year, no extra stuff, no extra money can be expected from pensioners, because average inflation is 2.2 percent at this moment. This year, economic growth is certain to be below 3.5 percent, so there won't be a pension premium, and from the 13th month pension you call it, you'll only see a week of it next year. So nothing this year, but prices have risen. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] By the way, there's a big difference between the two. You have to go with people and look at reality.
u2020-06-15-167	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2020-06-15-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We have not learned from what calculations you say that poverty is growing among people over 65 in Hungary, honourable Member. What we know for sure is that if the left were on the government, the fees would have increased further and would not have decreased, which would have been difficult for many elderly people. We also know for sure that the pension premium would probably not have been paid, since the left has never been able to show an economic rise in its economic policy that would have established a pension premium. And we would also know that the deficit of HUF 357 billion that we took over in 2010 would have increased further on the pension fund, but we have spent HUF 273.5 billion on pension premium, Elisabeth's voucher, return voucher, and thus on additional benefits over the past period. And there is only one thing, honourable Member, that the budget bill before you includes HUF 77 billion as a surplus to rebuild the sum of the 13th month pension for one week and HUF 53 billion for the pension premium. This is what we plan to do more, among other things, in the next year's budget, than if the left were to govern Hungary. Thank you very much. [[16.50]]
u2020-06-15-169	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[Bence of Turda: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. It seems that the Fidesz government has learned nothing from the epidemic, it seems as if they are working on not having free healthcare for all Hungarians. You may remember that last December we took a black coffin with the Dialogue activists to János Áder's office to draw attention to the law on tightening social security, which would now have entered into force on 1 July, and would have resulted in a million people being eliminated from the social security system, who are entitled to free healthcare. Now, in their bill on the basis of the budget, they would change this, they would push the deadline for this inhumane law by six months, but they didn't rewrite its merits, so they continue to say that whoever doesn't pay their social security contributions will pay it in vain afterwards, they won't receive any free benefits, but they will send him a hospital bill of up to millions. The other issue is the range of citizens not covered by the basic supply. There's a constant shortage of GPs. At present, nearly half a thousand GPs are missing from the system. In 2010, the number of completed practices decreased by 15, 43 in 2015 and 117 in 2019. The profession is constantly ageing, and even the calculation of the Balog Zoltán EMMI is that by 2025, only five years from now, up to four and a half million Hungarians will not be provided. The current half a thousand missing GPs should be somewhere between 700 and 800 thousand people. In the next year's budget, however, the practice communities and group practices that could solve the problem in this situation are not separated by a penny. So the programme with professional and political consensus that has provided and provided general care for many people seems to be not included in next year's budget at all. Mr. Secretary. What's up? Will there be another change in social security and support for group practice and practice communities next year? Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-171	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2020-06-15-172	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In 2010, we started governance by thinking that it was not possible to maintain the status of one of the least taxpayers in Hungary when looking at similar Central European countries or looking at other similar countries in Europe. More than a million people have been able to increase the number of taxpayers in Hungary, precisely because incomes have become legal, the economy has become white because of electronic cash registers and others, and 800 thousand new jobs have also been created, making each of them more and more involved in sharing the burden now, and this is the result of the muscularity and strengthening that is also found in the Hungarian economy. An important part of this is that payments are made in the health system and in the social security register, and everyone who takes up a job, except for obviously the beneficiaries, because they forgot to mention it. Therefore, this social security amendment contains a very wide circle of people who do not have to pay social security contributions, but everyone else who is supposed to be able to work is able to do work because they are not studying, they are not at home with the child, they are not able to work with the child, they are able to actually do work, they have to pay social security contributions in the same way as everyone else. This is social justice, so that everyone in the risk community can take out their own share of about 7,000 forints. We believe that a health system can be maintained in the long term. As far as GPs are concerned, that may be a longer question than 30 seconds, but let me tell you briefly that you have two concepts mixed up a little bit. By providing basic medical care for about 700,000 people, we have already been able to provide basic medical care for about 700,000 people by offering a practice support and a residency application, which could mean a non-refundable grant of HUF 20 million to a general practitioner, and by far above the number of dentists, whose support we have been able to provide through these dental practice contests. The development of the practice communities in these applications was usually a multi-annual tender, honourable Member, so those who won this year or last year have won the support needed for the community of practitioners for several years, they are constantly called down, so they extend far into this year and extend far beyond the next year, the sources of tenders that have been won by the community of practice from both EU and domestic sources. Thank you for your patience.
u2020-06-15-173	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-174	Mr. Secretary. My bad news is that there are not one million more taxpayers in Hungary, but hundreds of thousands fewer taxpayers, because everyone has paid taxes until then, if not otherwise, in the form of VAT. Thus, demographic losses and hundreds of thousands of emigrants have reduced the tax base. But let us now talk, for example, about half a million unemployed people who are not entitled to unemployment benefits, and you should pay the social security contributions from your zero income. You see, it's not fair, they wouldn't be entitled to free health care right now, as of July 1st. So maybe they'll get a little bit together and change one more on this social security thing, maybe take it all back. He didn't say a word about where the support line for practice communities and group practices was in the draft budget for 2021. There is no evidence of this in any of the annexes or any of the justifications. It seems that you are the only successful program in basic care. Is that true or not? Give me a straight answer.
u2020-06-15-175	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-176	Thank you very much. This is as true as your other claims, so it has nothing to do with reality. As I have just said to you, honourable Member, the establishment of practice communities was not on a normative basis, but on a tender basis, we have already financed it from a tendering framework, and we can continue to finance it from these tendering frameworks. [[Bence of Turdai: So far he's been in the budget, now he's not in the budget!]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Your party is a party of workless income. [[Bence Tordai: Your party is the party of hunger!]] You said that Hungary should also provide income to people without having to do a job, and many other proposals apply to this. This model was introduced as an experiment in Finland, tried for a year or two, and even in Finland, they realized that it doesn't work if people get income without work, they don't want to work afterwards. You say that it increases the desire to work, which is exactly the opposite in Finland, where it was introduced in real time, which is why it was introduced, honourable Member. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] So you would try to introduce in Hungary a proposal that has really failed in Finland. Of course, you're buying all the other similar proposals, but we're building a work-based country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] where people, if they work decently [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] , you can expect to be able to live better (The President is ringing again.) If they work decently, even as their parents, but for this...
u2020-06-15-177	Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-178	... work is needed, income without work cannot build a future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy, the representative of Fidesz, who wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: what does the budget for the year 2021 bring to the municipalities? It's an address. [[Bence Tordai: . What can be stolen from next year's budget?, with the title??!]] Minister Tállai asked for an answer because of his absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The floor is Mr. István Happy.
u2020-06-15-180	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard a lot in the press and last week's budget debate, and we still hear it regularly, so that the government takes funds away from the municipal system. I would like to clarify this question, because it is outrageous that the left is always trying to create a mood and a fever. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] We all know that the disease threat caused by the corona virus has not passed, that we have to live with it for a long time, and that we are still feeling its economic impact. The government has said many times that everyone has to take their share of the costs of combating the epidemic, as do the people, companies, parties, as do the municipalities. I think it is wrong that we cry together, we laugh together, the principle of the mayor of many major cities on the left is not acceptable, or at least think that they should make an exception. For me, as a former mayor of small settlements, and for a parliamentary representative of a not-so-rich constituency, it is outrageous that the country's capital does not show sufficient solidarity with the poor tax-powered settlements. The essence of the so-called solidarity contribution is that richer municipalities help poorer settlements. Let me note that solidarity is very interesting for left-wing municipalities, because in Elizabeth City, for example, the wages of nurses have been reduced, and in József City, health workers, police and firefighters have been deprived of access to housing. Also in Józsefváros, the mayor concluded a billion-dollar contract for public catering without public procurement. [[17.00]] I believe that with the budget of 2021, the government will manage the economic crisis with assistance, develop an economic protection action plan, and that Budapest and the other left-wing municipalities will introduce austerity. In view of the above, I would like to ask the State Secretary what the budget for 2021 brings to the municipalities. Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-181	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-06-15-182	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to begin my speech with a little reflection, because in 2010, when the change of government took place and Fidesz-KDNP took over the government, it met with what, of course, we knew until then that the Hungarian municipal system was essentially on the verge of functioning, some municipal groups could not function in essence, the municipalities of the county and several cities were inoperative. Well, we had to get here, and the left-wing two-cycle government led us here. Now the same left says he's taking away the opportunity and the government's making financial cuts. They forgot that they had abolished municipal democracy by essentially leaving the municipalities with no decision-making rights, no task left, no source was added, and therefore, despite being a local government, despite having a body of representatives, there was nothing to decide about, only how much credit we take and which bank we do. The Fidesz government has made the municipalities operational, and the Hungarian municipal system is still operational after ten years. The Hungarian municipal system is operational, including the capital and the districts, who make such unworthy decisions as the ones that Congressman has said are reducing people's salaries by pointing out to the government. The metropolitan municipal system and all Hungarian municipal systems are also operational. It is true that the situation is more difficult, because the Hungarian society and the government also expect the authorities to be solidarity, contribute to the costs of fighting the virus, and the left-wing authorities resent this. At all, they resent anything that could be more difficult in relation to local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-183	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-184	Dear Secretary of State, I remember the era you were talking about: after 2002, as mayor, I lived in a time when the leaders of the left-wing government tried to do everything they could to make free self-governments impossible, they practically took away school maintenance rights by underfunded schools. Indeed, we changed that after 2010, and I am very happy about that. The fact that Budapest has paid a percentage less solidarity tax than, let's say, three settlements in my region, who pay for it at all, the small village of Sayol, Martfű and Képpo, does not make me cheerful at all, and the people there are even upset at it. We believe that a richer municipality can help poorer municipalities. I am pleased if the new budget provides sufficient resources for the functioning of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-185	Thank you, Congressman István Happy. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2020-06-15-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In 2021, the draft budget law indeed amends the local government's funding system. Congressman, you have the heart of small settlements, so it is very good news for you that some 700 settlements are positively affected by the fact that the funding of municipalities with a tax power of less than HUF 22,000 will improve in this new system, and it is not true what the left-wing people say that the solidarity contribution will increase fourfold, because they forget to add that on the other hand the rate of state aid is also increasing. A gross settlement method will be introduced from 2021, the balance of which will otherwise be favourable to municipalities. If we use only these 700 municipalities as a basis, these are all small settlements and poorer settlements, they will benefit from the 2021 budget [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] modification of the municipal funding system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, do you always have the person who works at the end of the line? It's an address. Minister Sándor Farkas gave the right to reply. Do you accept the identity of the responder?
u2020-06-15-188	I'll take it, thank you.
u2020-06-15-189	You have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2020-06-15-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Luckily, thank God, the drought period is over. Unfortunately, quite late in early plantings, this did not help much, and now it can even make harvesting difficult in some cases, but it could still help a lot. Unlike the way drought behaves in the budget, there it seems that it does not end at all, at least in view of the budget figures for 2021, for the Hungarian countryside, for agriculture, this drought has lasted for many years. I am thinking, for example, of a fundamental situation that has developed around irrigation, which is important for the government in communication, but in reality, real substantive steps are always lacking. Irrigation development was planned next year with a total amount of money that would be good enough to solve the problem of irrigation in a single district, let's say, while we are well aware that there are 174 districts. If we now deduct the walks that cannot be called agricultural-oriented, there will still be a number of walks, many dozens where this problem remains. Given the frequency of droughts, we can say that this will be a recurring problem for farmers year after year, and no compensation system will be able to help after a while, and it will simply not be able to keep up the scale. So this kind of austerity, that the Hungarian state completely withdraws from the issue of waterability expansion, is, in the end, really suffered by farmers who do not want anything but to produce it safely, and that would require sufficient quality and quantity of irrigation water on the edge of their fields, which you have promised, and which apparently has not been achieved for 10 years now. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-191	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2020-06-15-192	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I think we do agree that we are hopefully at the end of an extremely dry spring period, and as the Medárd Day natural weather has occurred, the weather has now become rainy for perhaps 40 days theoretically, which has been significantly proven by the example of the last week. In fact, this may only have caused a little less for the autumn harvesters in one or two areas, for the autumn barley, the ripening of the middle-aged wheat may have slowed down, so there will be no more trouble there, and actually for the spring pickling crops and spring crops a little late, but a favorable precipitation has fallen and falls in these areas even in the recent hours. It should be added that it is extremely sporadic, so it wasn't a uniform precipitation wave that hit the country. The local significance is up to 60-80 millimeters opposite, where only 56 millimeters fell, but if we add up the precipitation over the last few weeks, we can't have any special complaints about this. What you have raised, we fully agree, is that irrigation development, the improvement of irrigation, is extremely necessary in the country. In this respect, the Law on Irrigation has been adopted, and it is expected that at the end of this week or next week there will also be an enforcement order, which will clearly give farmers the practical guidance on how to develop. The resources available in the budget remain in a significant part. These are, of course, finite numbers, but I think that, at the moment, the application system for irrigation development is still open, and farmers have not taken advantage of this possibility. So I think we should look inside first and then criticize it. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-06-15-194	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, indeed, farmers have not exhausted this, and this is very rare, and we can say that it is an unprecedented case of similar opportunities. [[17.10]] And that's why the state has a huge responsibility, to wonder why farmers didn't feel this opportunity to apply for it. Well, because he was extremely bureaucratic, and because quite simply this burden cannot be expected to be assumed by an average Hungarian farmer. For those who have invented, let's say, the support system, the estate policy, they are all wealthy big businessmen, orange barons who solve this problem practically on their own. However, the rural population, thousands of family farmers, will not be able to manage this themselves, so I say it is a state task. This is why the national irrigation development programme needs to be filled with real content, and these ten years could have been sufficient. There should be irrigation water in sewers on the edge of every lowland land, because we have the natural potential, and, yes, in this case, farmers would be able to take advantage of it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-195	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2020-06-15-196	Honourable Congressman, Don't doubt that in the autumn of last year, before Christmas, if I remember correctly, we adopted a law on irrigation. So, looking backwards for ten years, why it wasn't, you can look back not for ten years, but as I have said several times in this House by the mid-70s, when the greatest irrigation systems in the lowland were developed. Unfortunately, there hasn't been such a far-reaching development since then. Now the country's economic performance, the good state of the economy, has made it possible to focus on this very important area, and not least the food safety that we consider so important now in the epidemiological situation, has indeed confirmed the idea that yes, effective irrigation systems should be set up that will deliver irrigation water to farmers at relatively low cost. Believe me, Congressman, we are in the best of intentions and not only in intentions, but also in will. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what new applications can small settlements expect in the framework of the Hungarian Village Programme? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2020-06-15-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, In 2018, the Government of Hungary decided to launch the program of the Hungarian village, which could be applied for by settlements of less than five thousand people, with an annual envelope of HUF 150 billion. The launch of this programme was an outstanding measure, as it also carries the message that people living in villages are as important as those living in the capital and in cities. The left-wing governments could not count on the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian village. The migration has increased and the number of people living in settlements has decreased dramatically. Dear Minister, The first calls for proposals were published at the end of February 2019 in which applications could be made for the renovation and establishment of community spaces operated by church and municipalities. There was a continuous expansion of the beneficiaries' scope and opportunities, as among other things, it was possible to apply for the renovation of preschool playgrounds, the purchase of a medical-service apartment, the development of medical clinics and the purchase of medical equipment, as well as roads, bridges, sidewalks and renovations. KDNP has always been committed to people living in the countryside, as I myself represent the interests of people living in villages in the Parliament as an individual constituency representative. Despite the outbreak of the corona virus, the Hungarian village program enjoys unbroken popularity, some of which are highly interested in. That is why I ask Mr. Minister how he evaluates the results of the Hungarian village programme so far. What further calls for proposals are expected in the framework of the programme? I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2020-06-15-199	Thank you very much, Earth Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-06-15-200	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In spite of the epidemic situation, the Hungarian village program, we can say that it enjoys unbroken popularity. According to the latest figures on 9 June, more than 5700 applications have so far been submitted by small settlements and historical churches. The program completed six more calls for applications, more than a thousand applications for medical services, and HUF 4 billion were available. Road, bridge, sidewalk construction: more than 2,000 applications were received, 10 billion HUF was provided by the government. Development of community spaces, employment of community organisers in a budget of HUF 5-5 billion, as well as support for the development of preschool playgrounds and public playgrounds, as well as the purchase of equipment for the maintenance of public spaces, may now be submitted by 19 June. In addition, applications for the construction of medical-service apartments may be submitted on an ongoing basis. These three programmes have a total budget of HUF 8 billion. We can say that the data of 19 is extremely encouraging, 97.4 percent of the settlements below the five thousand people applied for the Hungarian village programme, which we announced 5321 winning applications for the invitation to tender. This means that a settlement has won on average in two sub-programmes. In 2020, the Hungarian village programme will continue and expand, with three main pillars of support planned for 2020: service development, infrastructure and asset development, as well as the strengthening of identity awareness. In the near future, further applications are expected, and the application of the Village Civil Fund has been published as a new element of the Hungarian village programme, which will help to continuously improve the living conditions of people living in small settlements from this year. We hope that this will indeed help to improve rural quality of life as a whole. Thank you again for asking.
u2020-06-15-201	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor a rejoinder, Mr. notary.
u2020-06-15-202	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I come from a constituencies with seven settlements below five thousand people, and these seven settlements started with great hopes last year and the year before, and we have actually managed to solve a lot of things from this program in the last year or two. What is a problem is that there are a lot of muddy roads in these villages, small settlements. So perhaps a greater part of the development of inland roads in these settlements and in the development of medical clinics should be given a greater framework for these settlements, because, indeed, we cannot renovate medical clinics everywhere. I hope that this will change in the future, and we can continue to enjoy the benefits and fruits of this programme.
u2020-06-15-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. The rejoinder deserves Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-06-15-204	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, With regard to the development of medical clinics, the tender option is still open, so I encourage everyone to take advantage of this opportunity, there are also free and usable resources, and indeed we also find that there is a very serious need for road renovation both on inland roads and on smaller, three-digit or above-digit roads. There has been serious progress in this area over the past year, but our plan is that over the next year and a half, we will be able to renovate several techniques, technology and methods, but hundreds of kilometres of rural roads that go beyond a thousand kilometres. I think that this programme has fulfilled its expectations, we can say that, regardless of political affiliation, the smallest villages can apply, and they also apply, and very much of them win, and these developments can be experienced in the everyday life of the villages and can also be seen in the villages. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-15-205	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ms Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "School violence: instead of prevention, is it just a baton? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-06-15-206	I accept, thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-207	Yeah. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. [[17.20]]
u2020-06-15-208	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Speaking of classics, you lie at night and lie during the day, on every wavelength. In addition to using the school guards, you argued that there was no other means left to prevent school violence. According to Secretary of State Maruzsa, who claims that the government has done nothing in the last ten years, but now wants to punish young people with batons and handcuffs, he has missed the events of the last ten years. From what you have said, Secretary of State, it can be concluded that the government has done everything in its power to prevent school violence, but the methods proposed by professionals have failed in many ways. The Secretary of State tells us that our situation is special, that in Hungary exceptional and difficult processes are taking place, so there is no way that the paved roads of prevention work. In comparison, the PDSZ reported at a press conference on 10 June that the Secretary of State said at a conference that the HUF 23 million budget for school violence prevention was increased to HUF 30 million this year. He also said that the reason why no higher amount was fixed was because there was no greater demand. So the reality is that you're lying. 30 million a year for prevention is to be understandable to everyone, as Lőrinc Mészáros earns in about an hour and a half, or as much as 43 forints per student per year. So prevention didn't fail, because it wasn't. You have failed once again in the qualifier of the truth-telling contest. So I'm asking you, how long are you gonna lie about the school police? Minister, I look forward to your reply.
u2020-06-15-209	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2020-06-15-210	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, the voters decide how long a party's life is, and although it is now predicted that the Hungarian Socialist Party's life is at its end, but I consider this an ambitious speech that you have started with a quote, and that you are trying to make it an accusation against the government that was used for the radio during the 1956 revolution, while you are sitting in the party that is the successor of the Communist Party that drowned the revolution of 56 and then became known when Ferenc Gyurcsány couldn't list the daylights at a group meeting in the autumn. After that, what happened, we all remember it, but it is certain that Ferenc Gyurcsány continued to live the lie that won another election in 2006. So my respectful request is that if you want to ask me in this style, at least don't choose a quote from the history of the labour movement. The question you're concerned with is an important question, by the way. I think that we should agree that while in general there is a need for order in Hungarian education, there are probably many areas for prevention, there are also areas for the country and there are schools for vocational education, as well as for regular schools, where unfortunately there is a need for a school guard to ensure discipline and order. And not only because of children, this may be the rarer case, but because of the regular violent appearance of parents at school. Unfortunately, ignoring this in Budapest is still a reality in some regions of the country. I think that we should agree that the protection of teachers who fulfil their vocation in an area that is often disadvantaged by the state should be ensured. Prevention is nice, we know what ideology is used to say this over and over again, and in certain areas it can be effective, but unfortunately, there are areas where schoolmasters are needed.
u2020-06-15-211	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2020-06-15-212	Thank you very much. Of course, I can't accept your answer because you weren't talking about what I asked you. Is it surprising that school violence is becoming an increasingly serious problem across the country when education management does not address this problem in its place? As we have said in the debate, prevention must be the number one priority, everything else, so the police solution should complement this, Minister. You did not prepare an actual prevention programme, but immediately decided to reduce the law enforcement solution, the age of criminality. Looks like they didn't give professionalism a chance. Please explain why a significant part of the amount intended for the introduction of school guards should not be put on the market for genuine prevention programmes. Why can't civil society organisations be allowed to go back to schools and help prevent them with a methodology? Why do you like the baton so much, Minister?
u2020-06-15-213	Thank you, Congresswoman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2020-06-15-214	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We've been in government for ten years, so we can't say that we started with the introduction of the school guard. It should be noted that there are areas in the country where if a child gets an "A," then the parent goes in and acts violently against the teacher. This cannot be solved with different prevention solutions. This can be solved by a school guard, if necessary by means of a coercive instrument. Moreover, it is not only about the reduction of the age of criminality that this has happened earlier, but it is only about the crimes against teachers that have already happened; it has happened abroad, and it has also happened in the United Kingdom under Tony Blair, but it is also an important tool that anyone committing violence against the teacher will fall away from the family allowance for a period of one year. I think it's a good, justified and forward-looking step. The only criticism we can accept is that we didn't do this sooner. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-215	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The agenda is closed. The hour of immediate questioning is over. The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of individual laws in the context of the promotion of adoptions and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal are now in order. Government referral T/10516. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-06-15-216	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 11 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10516 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the promotion of adoptions. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill before us is to make the preparation of adoptions more effective, to reduce the administrative burden on those who wish to adopt them, and to increase legal certainty for those who are involved in adoption. The government therefore wants to create the opportunity for adoption planning persons and for adoption children to find each other as quickly as possible. In order to make the possibility of raising in a loving family and thus the conditions of quality life available to as many children as possible, it is essential to amend the current adoption rules. The objective to be achieved is to increase the number of successful adoptions and to facilitate them, which is always done with the interests of children in mind. The bill would introduce the following amendments. Measures to facilitate the adoption of children. A change that is relevant for the adoption of the child is that the duration of the temporary placement is included in the period necessary for the declaration to be adopted. This allows the adoption of the child's condition to be assessed by the guardianship authority from the time it is removed from the family, which facilitates the adoption of the child as early as possible if the legal conditions are met. In the event of total absence of parental contact, the current half-year period as a condition for adoption shall be reduced to three months, from one year to eight months in the event of irregular contact. The scope of adoption will be increased from two to four years. Changes to the adoptive wishing to adopt. It is more stringent for those who wish to adopt them that they must provide the correct information in their circumstances. Adoptors may be relieved by the fact that the adoption course currently required during the eligibility procedure, which is intended to help prepare for adoption, will be available voluntarily and free of charge. [[17 .30]] Adopters are assisted by at least 10 days of work discharge per year during a sensitive period of familiarity with the child. The amendment provides for a wider possibility for older adopters: if the adoptable child is 3 years of age, the age difference between the adoptive parent and the age of 3 years may be 50 years instead of 45 years. The facilitations following adoption: on request, the minor non-Hungarian citizen who has been adopted by a Hungarian citizen will be able to be introduced at a reduced rate, because it is in the interest of the adopted child if the adoption recognised in Hungary allows him to obtain the same nationality as his parents who are Hungarian nationals. In my view, the proposal regulates the issues involved in the transformation in the interests of the children, so that the changes that are taking place that are beneficial both for the persons who plan to adopt it and for the children who are to be adopted can take place with sufficient certainty. In the light of the above, we see that the government is committed to providing legal opportunities for as many children as possible to grow up in loving families within a reasonable period of time if the conditions laid down exist. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-217	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[On Attila Philip's mark:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The People's Welfare Committee, which was appointed, did not present a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-06-15-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, There were not many of us here in this Chamber when we discussed this bill, but I think that we agreed that there was a very important amendment before the House, most of which we said that we could support almost every single point of the bill without exception. It was only one crucial part of which we made comments, whether by professional organisations or opposition politicians, and which we talked about quite a lot, this is the compulsory course, and we have also submitted amendments in order to do so, and this was positively appreciated by the government, since the tuition fee for the course was dropped, so that now there is no money to pay the adoptive parents for the course. What triggered the debate, however, was whether or not he was obliged to take this course. Together with my fellow Members and professional organisations, we have said that this is the most important thing that we consider to be the government's consideration that it should remain mandatory in this amendment of the law to complete the course. Unfortunately, we have failed to achieve this, but we will support the bill on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, because we also believe that it is necessary to make it easier, however, because it is very important for every child to grow up in a family. Of course, in the criticisms I myself said that a lot of children are still being removed from the family in Hungary only on grounds of poverty, which is prohibited by the Child Protection Act. We must use every means to prevent children from being removed from the family in Hungary for poverty reasons, and, of course, also to eliminate the fact that, let us say, this is a problem for a family, that it is getting into poverty, and that is why I have to lose my own child in quotes. So that was the only crucial point in this amendment of the law, the completion of the course. Some have said, through their personal example, why this is very important, that professional organisations have stood to the end to keep this in it, unfortunately we have not succeeded in achieving this, but, I say again, nevertheless, we support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-15-219	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-15-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I, too, believe that Parliament's debates over the last few weeks stand out when we talked about this here, not only because there was consensus between the two sides mostly and on most issues, but also because I felt that all the parties who spoke in the debate at the time considered this an important issue and a cause for which it is important to do it together. The current bill also fits into the family-friendly approach that we have been trying to show in politics since 2010 so that children can be raised in the family. This is what the strengthening of the foster family network has been about in recent years, which is what the facilitation of adoption is all about, and that is what the current bill is about. I would like to thank the members of the People's Welfare Committee and the Legislative Committee for their unanimous support for the amendment that we tabled with the women representing Katalin Novák and Gabriella Selmeczi, according to which the government will bear the cost of the course, leaving tens of thousands of forints with the adoptive parents. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support our amendment tomorrow in the summary amendment. I think that the government has come before this House with a very constructive and forward-looking proposal, and I think that with our amendment it may have improved, and perhaps the unanimous votes in the two mentioned committees show that everyone is thinking about it in the same way, and that even on several occasions in the debate it has been said to free the course. Thank you, everyone, who has been able to support this amendment, and I would like everyone to have this unanimous decision in the final vote tomorrow, as well as a signal to children and parents that the Hungarian Parliament supports, encourages and facilitates the simplification of adoption and adoption in a uniform way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-221	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, May Other be Politics.
u2020-06-15-222	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Of course, I am positive too, because I will also vote in favour of the bill on this and the amendment proposal; I will do this because I think that the first is in the interests of children. However, I continue to maintain that I do not think it is good that the compulsory nature of the course will be abolished, and I also said this at the Committee meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, and I hoped that I might have planted the idea here in the name of my fellow Members, I mean my fellow members in favour of the Government, but I see that this has failed. I hope this is not because this amendment has been tabled by an opposition Member, but if so, I suggest that, since it will be voted tomorrow, my fellow members of the government will do so for me in the future, so that they will submit this proposal, because if they do not, then I will always submit the results. This bill is very important, there are a lot of good things in it, I stress, but believe me, the abolition of the compulsory nature of the course is not good. It is not good because if it is not mandatory, unfortunately many of the parents will not choose it; perhaps if the adoption consultants recommend it to them, and perhaps if they are made aware of the topic of the course, then a greater result can be achieved, I mean a percentage to attend the course, but I am not sure that everyone will do so. Yet, in order for a successful adoption, and for that child to have a really good time in the family, and for the parent to have a good time in the family, it is necessary that the adoptive parent is mentally prepared for the difficulties of adoption. When the child slams the door on a person, or if he doesn't want to talk to him during the meeting, he has to be able to handle these situations, for which this course provides a good basis for a person; more than that, because if I take into account my personal experience, it happened in our house that, for example, the child to be adopted refused to come with us overnight, and so, indeed, there were delays in the process of adoption, which we couldn't do, of course, he wasn't, because he was little, but it was difficult to handle. For this, we needed the course that we had completed, and, of course, the help of the adoption consultants, so that we could bridge this. I don't really understand why if they make it free, why they say it's not mandatory, why they don't make it mandatory. In my opinion, during adoption, the various tests, such as psychological examination and others, all contribute to the screening of those who can adopt me, and I think that this is very appropriate; and I would also consider it appropriate that the course should remain mandatory, because I think that many people will not do this because it is not mandatory. [[17.40]] I am glad that there will be accelerated procedures, because I know, for example, of little girls who have been waiting for a decision from a social services office for six months, since they could be adopted, and during these six months, their lives have been very long. Six months in a two-to-three-year-old's life is a very, very long time. I hope that this amendment will bring about the fact that this will not take so long, and that these children will be in the family as soon as possible. By the way, I would like to say back to the course that perhaps it would be good for my doubting fellow Members to take such a course, or to learn about its theme and content, and then to realize that this is really very, very important. I am also pleased that this is in front of this House, and tomorrow there will be a vote on it, because it is five years since our son was adopted, it is just such a jubilee event here, and I think it will be a really good day, that there will finally be a lot of improvements around the adoption, and that part of these proposals was my proposal, which I made to the Secretary of State, and that is why I am very happy that this is also included. But I'm not gonna give up on having to have a course. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-223	Thank you, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2020-06-15-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join my opposition colleagues, who stressed both Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Krisztina Hohn, how important it is that the compulsory course remains mandatory. You want to make this voluntary, and we know that you will finance it, but the arguments that have been made here, I think it is absolutely important to consider it, and to insist that it remains mandatory. Of course, Jobbik will support this proposal, because there are a lot of amendments in this adoption process that are forward-looking and that are in the interest of children, which is very important for us to grow up in every child's family, and we therefore provide you with our support, but consider that the course remains mandatory. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-15-225	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor on behalf of the author to Secretary of State Attila Philip.
u2020-06-15-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank you for both during the general debate and since then for the exchange of views on this issue. I would like to thank you for the truly well-intentioned and improving comments on the bill, and also for the support of opposition parties. I think this is a sign that this is a good bill that has been submitted to Parliament. I would like to point out once again the most important thing: indeed, the aim of this law was to make it simpler, faster, and that parents who intend to adopt children should be given more support, and that they should be given an opportunity to propose an amendment. We also wanted to raise the dialogue to the highest possible level so that we could see what was going on in child protection. These children are talking about more than a thousand adoptions a year, from 1059 last year, two thirds of them came from child protection, from families where they had already been traumatized, since they were ripped out of their biological families. Therefore, we should have one crystal clear and unquestioned goal: to get them to a final family as soon as possible in the form of adoptive parents. Therefore, it is a natural continuation of what we have started with the campaign of foster parents mentioned by Congressman Nacsa in child protection to build family-centred child protection there, and if a child can come out of child protection, this is the only purpose of this law as soon as possible. I would also like to thank you for the votes in favour. But I would also like to say two sentences about the course, because in the last two weeks, I think it has been too highlighted in this proposal compared to its weight. In the course, two things are important: so far, it has had to be paid and compulsory. In the law, we did not mention life situations where this course may not be necessary, but we said such situations. I myself have visited foster parents in recent days who, for example, have been raising a child for several years and then adopt a child; there is no one in this country who knows that child better than that foster parent. And we think that for those who adopt us, we should give them the responsibility and age that they will decide, and otherwise I think that it is not good to compare it with the practice that we've had, because so far, this course has had to be paid, and now it does not have to be paid. And more than that, as Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn put it, whom I congratulate again this time on the five-year anniversary, which, therefore, will come soon, tomorrow, you have the best idea of why it is not necessarily necessary to make it mandatory: because it is a long process. Because it starts with the adoption counselor, who takes the hand of the parent who wants to adopt it and helps it; because there is a psychic, psychological examination; because there is a health assessment; there is an environmental study. And when all this is done, the congresswoman knows it very well, then comes the question of whether the course is needed or not. Therefore, all I ask of anyone who has criticized this law in recent weeks or days is that we also consider a person of sufficient age who decides to adopt a child and also a professional who has been working in this system for years and decades to be able to decide that, in addition to psychological, psychological assistance, a person needs a course that the government can take free of charge from now on by taking over the state. Thank you again for your support in this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-227	Thank you very much, Attila Philip, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting tomorrow. We now have the Commission's reports on the Erzsébet Camps and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/10521. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-06-15-228	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 11 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10521 on the Erzsébet Camps. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 22 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, With the bill before us, the government intends to ensure the long-term operation of the National Camping Programme, the Erzsébet Camps, and the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, which has been responsible for these tasks since 2016. In 2016, nearly 90 thousand people participated in the Erzsébet Camps, in 2017, this number exceeded 100 thousand, in 2018 the number of participants increased to more than 126 thousand, and in 2019 we could talk about a total of approximately 130 thousand. The foundation organizes the camps and programs along a long-term concept, which typically take place at the camps in Zanka and Fonyódliget. In the case of the day-care and sleep-sleeping camps of the Erzsébet camps, the topics of Hungarianism and home knowledge, sport, science and culture, as well as Christianity appear during the programmes. Children can choose from them according to their interests, so it is possible to broaden their horizons, even to recognize a promise of talent. In all Erzsébet camps, full daily care is also provided, and meaningful, experiential programs are guaranteed. Without the Erzsébet Camps, it would be difficult for a child to have access to so many different programs and playful activities in one place, but the camping program brings everything to home. The bill regulates the legal issues relating to the organisation of camps on several points without the need for completeness. [[17.50]] Through the interpretation provisions, the basic concepts of the organisation and financing of the camp are clearly defined, thus aiming at the precise definition of the public task and the realisation of those tasks as planned. It defines the concept and types of Erzsébet camps: day care, sleep and family camping, records the public benefit status of the camping organisation as a public service mission, and promotes a high level of public service and a more efficient use of public funds. It sets out the annual provision of public budget support, which is necessary for the provision of priority public tasks. It names the scope of personal data that can be processed in connection with the organisation of camps, in accordance with the applicable data protection provisions. Dear House, The proposal before us aims to increase the efficiency of public service provision, and we can see that the government considers the Erzsébet camps providing for the physical, mental and spiritual development of children as a priority. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-229	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says it's not right now. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, and a two-minute comment is not possible in the course of the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2020-06-15-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, During the trial of the bill, our lead speaker said that we will support this proposal, even though we have doubts about what will happen, let us say, the future fate of these institutions. In any case, we say that if these camps really want to convey the values of Hungarians, of Hungarians, of Hungarians, of sport and of science to Hungarians, then we will support them. We also know that child poverty in Hungary is also quite high at European standards, and the fact is that children from families with low socio-economic status, to whom this camp could provide meaningful summer activities, recreation and programmes, do not yet have access to camping. We have heard the 130,000 numbers from my fellow Member before, so many students at the annual level, so many children can take advantage of this opportunity, which, in our opinion, is very small. I would therefore like to recommend to the attention of my fellow members of the Government a proposal for a amending budget that would double the budget for the Erzsébet camps. It's just over 4 billion forints. Obviously, this is when the snoring comes from the pro-government benches, what a demagogue this is of us, when I venture to add it and draw a parallel between the fact that Lőrinc Mészáros, who kicked over 800 of his employees out of his hotels, still received nearly HUF 18 billion to develop his hotels. Or I could also name the 31-year-old ex-football player from Tiszakecske, who founded his company a few days before Christmas, which is the first company of his life, already won 8 billion forints in order to be able to create and develop hotels. If this was the case, it was almost HUF 18 billion to develop hotel companies of the nation's omniscient gasman, and there is this other HUF 8 billion, rather suspicious and outrageous item, this means, after a short head count, more than HUF 25 billion. All we ask is that the 4 billion 400 million forints that were scheduled for the following year will be doubled. I don't think we're asking for anything that's unfulfilled, we're not asking for anything that's against the interests of this nation, students, young people, children. I would very much ask you to support this proposal at least. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2020-06-15-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In the same way, after the adoption law, we negotiated the Erzsébet Camp Act, and there was no such consistency between opposition and pro-government representatives as with the previous law. We have formulated our criticisms, and I would also like to mention that, if I remember correctly, my fellow Member said that in 2019 130,000 children could use the services of the Erzsébet camps, only to be honest is that many of the 130,000 children, tens of thousands of children, do not leave their homes, because in the same way the school or kindergarten does the Erzsébet camping in their settlement. I know that from my own living environment I live in Kaban, that Kaban is also camping Elizabeth at school, thanks to God, they make more camps on an annual basis, but these kids don't even make their way out of their homes, so they're in Elizabeth camp. So I'm really going to ask you one day, on a written question, how many tens of thousands of children are actually going to go to, say, Lake Balaton or elsewhere, to different parts of the country. As a criticism, we know very well that the value of the real estate transferred to the Zánka and Fonyód camps is HUF 17.5 billion. We have repeatedly indicated that it may not be sold on a market basis, but in essence, when it was handed over to this Children's Foundation in the Carpathian Basin, it ended up owning a property worth HUF 17.5 billion, and then we know that it will be renovated with state money or even with State money for Lőrinc Mészáros, and then 15 years later, when the deadline expires, they will essentially do what they want with these real estates. 15 years isn't such a terrible long time, and basically from state property to foundation property first, and then who knows what property it becomes, and I'm telling you, they get a lot, a lot of billions for free. As I understand it, in the 2020 budget, HUF 12.2 billion was planned for the Erzsébet camping, it is true that it appeared this weekend, as I understand it, that another HUF 2 billion was added to the summer camping. In essence, we spend tens of billions of forints on renovations, then camping, and these very serious properties at the end and 15 years later, who knows where we suspect they're going to end up. We also said that it was one of the cornerstones of our criticism, and I would like to read it, because my fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, said that there is a long-term mention of the data that can be handled by the Foundation. According to the justification. The legal authority ensures that the personal data strictly necessary for the provision of public tasks are available and manageable. Subject to the applicable data protection provisions, the proposal determines the scope of the data processed in accordance with the principles of data management. Data from the Foundation and the camp organizer with the exception of health-related data circles until the end of the 5th year following camping, non-winning applications treats and retains the application until the end of the year. We did not understand why this foundation had to manage these data for five years. I know they write down in the law that data protection rules are in order, but it still raises questions as to why this is necessary. We consider it very important for as many children as possible to get to Erzsébet camp on a social basis in Hungary, although I might add that they were my children too, regardless of whether we paid them, of course only so that they can be with the others, because we consider it very important that these camps work and that children can collect experiences in the summer. But we have said our criticisms, and we do have reservations about this law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-15-233	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr István Happy, Fidesz. [[18.00]]
u2020-06-15-234	Mr President, Honourable Members, I am very pleased that all the speakers so far have said that they support the Erzsébet camp system. It's an important thing. I spoke because a few days ago I met a Facebook post where a opposition representative wrote something else, and he felt sorry for the children for what an Elizabeth camp meant, regretting the opportunity for parents to take care of their children in a camp in good circumstances. I trust that this left-wing representative will be persuaded by the Jobbik faction, if not by faction discipline, to support the Erzsébet camp program, to support the Elizabeth camps. He may even send his own child or children to such a camp. So I'm asking everyone to support the Erzsébet camps together. I am sure that there is nothing more important now than the coming of summer, and it will not be of course next summer, because this is also about next summer. It is important that children are able to enjoy good experiences in good conditions and in safety while their parents are able to work in their workplace. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-235	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2020-06-15-236	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The MSZP has not given its support to the proposal, but let us now go beyond that, and we hope that they will change their minds by tomorrow. I also agree with the speakers before me that it is extremely important for children to have community experiences, a type of extracurricular programmes where meaningful spending of leisure can take place, freed up, and yet intelligently. I think it is extremely important for this to happen. I would also like to highlight this number, because my fellow Member Bóna told me last year's data, but he did not say how much it was, that so far 1.5 million Hungarians have had the opportunity to take a vacation and relax in such circumstances. I think it's a high number to be happy about. I would particularly like to point out that last year there could also be a cross-border camping, and it is also a special pleasure that the circle of Erzsébet camps has expanded with this, and it is possible to vacation in Hargita for young people who will make it to this camp. I am also pleased that we are also setting out in this law that social need should be given priority during camping. I think we totally agree on that, but it's also written in black and white in the law, and it's right. The data protection rules, which Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked or raised, clearly show that they comply with the regulations in force. It is also mandatory to keep it for a while, because if any questions arise in retrospect, or if anything happens that makes it important to know who was there, what age group, it is important to have this data. Madam Member, of course, the law guarantees that this data protection will be as strict as possible. I think it's right that the data here is safe. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, 15 June 2020 Monday 141/2. Number Parliamentary Diary Congressman Ander supported it and didn't support it. [[Ander Balázs: I support it! We're in favor. Dániel Z. Carpathian: He made it quite clear!]] But it was a good one... I am pleased that these camps are being renewed, honourable Member. I am pleased that these children can come to the shore of Lake Balaton in more beautiful conditions every year. You criticized the renovation as to how much it costs and how much it costs. I am glad that the Hungarian economy is so strong that we have been able to ensure that these camps are constantly renewed and that they can arrive under more and more beautiful conditions. Today, Zánkán is not the pioneering mood for visiting children that visitors have experienced in the past 20 to 30 years. I am glad that we have finally been able to go beyond the architecture of the cursed period there and that atmosphere, and now it is more modern and the XXI. The camping site, adapted to the challenges of the century, will host children and those who want to go on holiday this year. I think it is in our common interest that as many children as possible get a holiday, so that as many children can spend their free time intelligently in the summer, community, creating experiences, experiences and friendships that will be useful to them in their later lives. Of course, we support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-237	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2020-06-15-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we criticize from the opposition side, we criticize the lack of answers to what will happen to these properties in 15 years' time with the involvement of serious budgetary resources. What we see now is that for 15 years, of course, it is owned by the foundation, of course it is owned by Lőrinc Mészáros, they do these tasks, but what will happen in basically 15 years, no one knows, because no one will tell us what will happen. Let me protect you, although I don't know which opposition representative you were talking about, but I'm sure you didn't speak against the Elizabeth camps, not against the camping, but against exactly what we are criticizing, that there are massive billions of public money going, and that something will happen that we haven't seen yet, I'm just saying we have suspicions based on the experience of the last few years. I don't think anyone's gonna say they don't support it. By the way, we started the social holiday under the socialist government, just like children in need of social care are having a meal. We consider this to be a good system, and we also support as many people as possible to get access to this service. No one disputes that it is good for children, but rather we say that it is not every camping that is called XXI. We are experiencing centuries of circumstances, and there were reports that the food was not all right, that the conditions were not all right. I can only be happy if we develop, the children can get to a better place in the summer during the time they participate in the camp, only ask our questions, but we don't really get the answers to them. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-239	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2020-06-15-240	Thank you, Mr. President. Just don't keep what Congresswoman Bangón said on the record. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's already in there!]] So I'd like to refuse that Lőrinc Mészáros owns the foundation and the... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I did not say that!]] That's what you said. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: No, no!]] You may have misunderstood, but you said that Lőrinc Mészáros owns the foundation. It's not like that. I can tell you what's gonna happen in 15 years. 15 years from now, it's not just your kids, it's your grandkids' vacation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. We can't change the protocol. [[Nacsa Lawrence: True!]] It's what's in the report. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2020-06-15-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then, in order not to leave in the minutes what our fellow Member Nacsa said here first, namely that he does not know that I am half-heartedly in favour of this, I do not support it. We support, yes, sitting in this faction, so that the Erzsébet camps can be renewed and that as many Hungarian children, students and young people can go there. Yes, we support that. We do not support the fact that you have so little support for this programme. That is why I asked you to support our proposal for a amending budget, which would spend a total of HUF 4 billion more on this, so it would double what you are planning originally. To do this, I have brought various metaphors, and I have tried to set up a balance pair on what there is money and what there is no money for in this country. If there's more than 25 billion for the Tiszakécske football player and Mészáros hotels, I say we say that there should be an extra 4 billion for the Elizabeth camps. So maybe it's completely clear. And support our budget changer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-15-243	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Hajdu, DK.
u2020-06-15-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the first part of the debate, I did not speak to him, I mean in the general debate, but I think, on the basis of what has been said, that I have a few words to say. It seems as if in this country we are solving the holiday with the Elizabeth camps, but there are very many colorful parts of the holiday to which no support is given, yet it is resolved. The funding of this is provided by parents and municipalities and specialized foundations, which are not mentioned. It's not 130,000 kids on vacation there, it's a lot more than that. So what we're talking about here is a small slice of child recreation. There are many summer holidays, which are not mentioned here, and they are going on and on. I have to add that many municipalities also have resorts inherited from the Council system, including Lake Balaton, in Börzsöny, in different mountain areas. So they are on a regular holiday, and this gives parents tremendous help. In the summer, when the child can't do anything about the parent because he works, then there's the version that works in the day care system, it's also a municipal solution, and the child has full care at the day care center. [[18.10]] In my constituency, about 800-1200 children spent the last year in 2019. So let's talk about this. And then there are trade camps, art camp, one week, two weeks, ten days old, and there are exchange-recreational relationships through sister-town connections. So here we are talking about this Elizabeth Voucher solution as if this holiday would solve the problems of children in the country. A tiny slice, yes, I don't know a number, but I'm guessing it can't be more than 10 percent, not even that much. We'll even legislate on that. On the other hand, it is included in the municipal budget, it has a chapter, it supports the municipality at all levels, so I can say that almost every city has such a holiday. It's the bigger crowd. Besides the art camps there are sports camps, there are foundations and association grants, and there are camps that are professional camps related to environmental protection. There are children who are not expelled to the resort, and then we have lunch, dinner, and noise, but regular occupations, culture is packed with them, knowledge is brought home, friendships are made. The Erzsébet camp is not underestimated, and can be supported otherwise, but then we highlighted a slice, which is an Erzsébet camp category, receives support, and the other large crowds do not receive support. That's about what you're arguing about right now, I feel Parliament, in connection with this law. I would like to say, as mayor of practice before, that I went to the children's house every turn, right, we also have camp in Balaton, we also have camp in Börzsöny, we have camp in Agárd, so we sacrificed to the children. I do not think, what has been said here, that children only have a solution in the Erzsébet Camp variation in this country, but are organized in many places throughout the year. If there's any obstacle to child camping, that's Klebelsberg Kunó Institutional Support, that's the main obstacle. We need educators, educators who supervise the children. However, the municipality pays, the municipality organizes, is owned by the municipality, but the teacher is owned by the State, so he was nationalised. You need your permission to consent or not to take a week or two from the camp in your summer break. And then it comes to trying to organize colleges, pedagogical colleges, or college students, so that qualified people can supervise the children if they do not contribute, because they have to sign a contract with the educator, because for this there is a remuneration, not a fee from the Elizabeth account, but a remuneration from the municipal register. The bigger obstacle here is not to mention how in these camps, in these Elizabeth camps, for example, the KLIK authorizes these educators to babysit those 130,000 children. At the municipal camp, it is a serious obstacle to organization in the first place as to who can organize it in the school, let them organize it in the school, so that they can go to the camp, because the municipalities give support. We're talking about a very special holiday. I have to add that, of course, the same Erzsébet voucher solution, which we are going to legislate on here, but let us not forget, and keep in the record that there is still a summer holiday for the Hungarian children and the majority of them provided by completely different organisations. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-245	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2020-06-15-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just for the record, I'd like to say one last thought. I know it's not Lőrinc Ripper's property. At that time it was only a Freudian comment, because we saw what Lőrinc Mészáros had in his possession over the last ten years, what he had to do with everything, and how Hungary's first and then second richest man became when he was on the rankings, thanks to the Orbán government. Well, let's face it, not your talent, but a serious government tailwind. By the way, about the Erzsébet camps, only if I've had such a Freudian saying: the Erzsébet Camp doesn't completely avoid the Mészáros-éra, because it's hard enough in renovations and catering because it's hard enough to look at the existing data. So it may have been a Freudian saying, but it wasn't, because we know it very well because it is active around the Erzsébet camps that Lőrinc Mészáros owns a network of companies. So I wanted to talk to you about that, but maybe it wasn't, because maybe 15 years from now, we'll find out for the record that I'm right. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-15-247	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State indicated that he wished to respond on behalf of the rapporteurs to what was said in the debate.
u2020-06-15-248	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I, too, do not want to put too much pressure on the report that has been mentioned, and, as the rapporteur, I would like to reflect very briefly on the proposals or comments made on the factual statements of the proposal. In order to reassure the Jobbik fraction or in the case of a good perspective, I can say that in terms of the number of 130,000, which has been mentioned several times here, it is worth watching the process, that it was still under 100,000 in 16 and there were 90,000 children, and it was said here in the general debate that if the renovations were to take place, the planned number would be 180 thousand. This means that after the renovations there is a way, opportunity and will for more children to participate otherwise I was pleased to hear that the factions also recognized or successful and called me popular in the Elizabeth Camp. As regards data processing, I would like to add that, after the amendments, the final draft law contains the wording that, in order to ensure the security of data processing, the data processed should be removed from the register immediately after the expiry of the period of data processing, so this clearly gives the certainty that further storage can not be carried out on grounds of legal obligation in this respect. Thirdly, the procedural rules, which have been mentioned by Mr Hajdu, mention exactly what questions have been raised about the organisation: there has been an empowered legislative provision in the law itself, so that technical and procedural rules can be laid down in lower-level legislation and government decrees, which we believe to be even safer and even more operational in the Erzsébet camp system. So, to conclude, once again, I would like to thank you for the substantive contributions made in the debate, and I would like to ask for your support for this bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-249	Thank you very much, Attila Philip, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting tomorrow. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Berne Convention of 9 May 1980 on International Rail Transport on the publication of the 2009 and 2018 amendments to the text of the Protocol, adopted in Vilnius on 3 June 1999, and the 2006 Protocol of 9 May 1980, adopted in Vilnius on the amendment of the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, dated 3 June 1999. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/10515. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[18.20]] First in the debate, Honourable Parliament, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. I give the floor to Ádám Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-06-15-250	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 11 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the 2009 and 2018 amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, adopted in Vilnius on 9 May 1980, to the Convention on the modification of COTIF, adopted on 3 June 1999 in Vilnius, and the 2006 LXXVII on the publication of the Protocol adopted in Vilnius on 9 May 1980 amending the Convention on International Carriage by Rail in Bern. T/10515. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It accepted by 31 votes in favour, no and without abstention. Dear Parliament, During the last decade, the government has had a key objective of improving the quality of rail freight services. This is due, among other things, to the amount of more than HUF 1300 billion allocated to rail development and modernisation projects. Thanks to the government's resources invested in rail development, rail transport can now appear as an environmentally friendly and practical alternative to road freight transport. Rail also plays a key role in reducing CO2 emissions in the transport sector and in protecting the state of the roads. It is therefore clear that rail transport is an all-encompassing solution for the movement of goods from our country to remote countries. Ladies and gentlemen, The international public rail transport organisation, OTIF, was established in Bern on 1 May 1985 under the Convention of 9 May 1980, which was already proclaimed in Hungary by Decree-Law No 2 of 1986. The aim of the OTIF is to promote, develop and facilitate international rail transport in all respects. The Vilnius Protocol, adopted in Vilnius on 3 June 1999, amending the Convention in Bern, 9 May 1980, entered into force in Hungary on 1 July 2006, which was adopted by LXXVII of 2006. It's been announced by law. In order to make good use of the economic, environmental and other positive externalities of rail transport, we need, above all, a comprehensive, modern international transport agreement. The convention on which the bill is based, COTIF, as I said earlier, was born in 1980, so it was about 40 years ago. Since then, this has been amended and extended by the international rail interstate body. Thus, the most recent proposal of this Convention before us fits well with the challenges of the modern age and with the legal order of each Member State. In view of this, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-251	Thank you very much, Congressman Ádám Hey, David. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mosóczi, who is in the name of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to comment now or later. [[For signal:]] Later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, Member, LMP.
u2020-06-15-252	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, we supported the proposal in the Legislative Committee, and I also said in the general debate that we will support this update in the context of international treaties with our vote. However, in a little response to what Mr Dávid Heyj said, or what was said here in the general debate with Mr State Secretary, so I must respond and recall that in the general debate with my fellow Member Ander Balázs, we asked the Secretary of State, taking advantage of the fact that the Secretary of State responsible for transport policy was rarely, but now he was here in Parliament, that the news that the government was preparing to attack the railway sidelines was true. Then you categorically denied, Mr. Secretary, that such a thing would not happen. It was deeply disappointing for us, I can say, perhaps on behalf of my fellow Member, because a day or two had to pass before a shameful so-called epidemiological agenda appeared, which condemned practically 34 railway sidelines to death. Mr State Secretary, I find it a great disappointment that you did not reveal the truth in Parliament, and, as we later learned, this government measure was already in progress, so you already knew exactly what was coming, and yet you misinformed us in this way. Please respond, Secretary of State. I also tried to ask Secretary Schanda and several government actors how to justify this shameful decision at all, which, by the way, corresponds to both the Gyurcsány and the subsequent Bajnai government measures. It's practically an attack, a hard-core attack on the rail network, against rail transport, against the railway sidelines. You have introduced an epidemiological agenda with virtually 34 railway sidelines, or perhaps a train party, when these various restrictions are now lifted in all areas of life. Are you serious, Secretary of State, that you think that in the epidemiological situation, replacement bus transport would be safer than rail transport? This is quite amazing. I don't suppose you can give me any technical reasons behind this. By the way, there are examples behind your outrageous actions, just one thing, for example, in the case of the Villány-Mohács railway line, that instead of the original 25-minute journey time, passengers now have to sit on buses for 1 hour 2 minutes on an epidemiological schedule, that is outrageous! By the way, I would add that this poses a more serious risk to passengers. We have also read the government's justifications that the fleet of vehicles released here will be used on the main lines. Secretary of State, what main line will these Bz motor cars be used on? Please explain, Mr Secretary of State, what kind of cost reduction you hope will be if you take this shameful step. Otherwise, it would be possible to enumerate from the 2009 parliamentary debates the perfectly correct and legitimate speeches of the Members of the Fideszes-KDNP, the embarrassing, the railway destroyer, the anti-rural, and it has also been said that in connection with the policies of the village destroyer, when the Gyurcsány government decided to take similar steps, and then the Bajnai government. Mr. Secretary. I'm asking you to try to answer these questions, not only in the closing room, but now. And there is a very, very clear question, and for some reason, Secretary of State Schanda could not interpret it when I asked him clearly that you had introduced a temporary epidemiological agenda. Why now and when will this end? So when are you going to lift this epidemiological agenda, and when are you going to return those flights to the 34 lines involved that have now been terminated or suspended temporarily? And tell me, please, Mr Secretary of State, when the government finally deserves to adopt a complex transport strategy, a transport concept that goes beyond these slogans, which Mr. President has just said, and indeed develops a system to coordinate the various sectors of Community transport into a single system, and indeed the railway can be the backbone, the core network on which the bus will play a bearing role. And when will they finally implement a meaningful rail development policy? Because he sees HUF 1000 billion spent on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, but from the other side there is no money left to improve the very important railway sidelines to an appropriate extent and to establish a timetable that would make these sidelines suitable for providing all aspects to the travelling public. So it can be said that this is a shameful, railway-destroying, anti-rural, village-destructive policy, and I am deeply disappointed, Mr State Secretary, that you have clearly misled us, not one, but two of your representatives, and I am very confident, Mr State Secretary, that you will finally answer not only to us, but also to the Hungarian people, the inhabitants of the affected rural areas, why these outrageous decisions have been made. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-15-253	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik. [[18.30]]
u2020-06-15-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Let's start with a riddle. The government's fundamental mistake, its sin, is that it treats the railway as just one company because of its liberal economic approach. In connection with this, from whom this quote is made, he stressed that:, Community transport is a public service, essentially not an economic corporate issue. The state does not favor its rural citizens when it operates the post office, the school and the railway, it is a fundamental state obligation. No one has authorized the current government to restrict, close, consciously destroy the wings lines belonging to the basic living conditions of the people living in the countryside. Yes, Mr. Secretary of State Major, still in opposition. Right, right, please. Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Member of the Cross pointed out here that I myself asked in the debate on 20 May what was their plan for these rural sidelines; then this scandal broke out, and then the outrageous news came that they were really going to execute almost three dozen wing lines in this way. I looked directly at the minutes, I asked him four times in my speech: what is true of the fact that, under the cover of the epidemic, these sidelines are intended to be taken out; then, in particular, say something encouraging, Mr. Secretary of State; then I turned to him for the third time, citing that the cancellation of the flight or the thinning of the flight will not result in any real savings, so under the balliberal governments it did not result in any real savings, and now it would not have been appropriate to say something to that; and for the fourth time I also asked very specifically what would happen to the wing lines, what would happen to the sidelines in the news. Mr. Secretary, I can tell you that you're here, I've written out what you said then. He said that the railway should always be supported, that the Government of Hungary has repeatedly declared that rail transport is the backbone in community transport, so he does not plan any closure or sideline closure. So how are we now? Whole rural areas are terrified that this terrible agenda, which we really don't know how it was put together, is likely to be justified, that people who may not have travelled on a train in almost their lives and are merely thinking about service from Audi, from here and from here, so these people have drawn up a timetable for the Hungarian countryside that we can safely see as a dagger in the heart of the Hungarian countryside. People in the affected settlement are afraid of the future fate of the railway lines there. From my own constituency, where I came from, may I mention the Nagyatád-Somogyszob line or the Barcs-Gyékényes line, which also floats in nothing, the question hangs over the heads of these settlements like the sword of Damokles: how to proceed with the Hungarian railway? What are you going to do, Mr. Secretary? You will spend 183 billion forints on rail development in the next year's budget. Let me underline the disproportionateness of the numbers here. Out of the HUF 183 billion, HUF 51 billion goes to the Hungarian railway line of 7700 kilometres, and more than HUF 132 billion to a mere 160 km of domestic section; this is the domestic section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. If you look at the renovation money per kilometer, you can see that the average amount of HUF 6 million per kilometer is going to be worth 600 thousand per kilometer, on the other hand only next year, and obviously next year this story will not end, because it will last for many years, and then it will actually reach the projected HUF 1000 billion that everyone is horrified to hear that this amount will be spent on the domestic section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, so next year this amount will be HUF 132 billion, which means HUF 825 million as a kilometer. If you compare this with other sections of the domestic railway lines, you can find 125 times the multiplier. The principles that have been said here from a transport policy point of view, the railway must indeed be supported, the railway should be supported in order to shift the heavy goods vehicle traffic, say, to a fixed track, because it is environmentally friendly, energy-friendly and can be classified as a blessing. But it will not work, my fellow members of the Government, by looking at a 160-mile line, and the other 7,700 kilometers will rot, because there will not be enough resources. It's not fair! Nor will it be possible to put together alibi timetables, alibi transport that will clearly lead to the fact that in a few months they will be able to say that what the opposition is saying here, the Hungarian citizens are not even using these lines! Of course, it is not used if they put together an unfortunate timetable that will make their lives miserable; they are so retiring from the railway that they can say that they are not sufficiently exploited, they are indeed ripe to be shut down. But we can't identify with that, we can't accept that. We obviously do not support this mentality, this attitude, but we do support the bill itself, because we believe that through such international conventions, but we must also support the Hungarian railway from the opposition. Minister of State, like my fellow Member of the Cross, I can only ask you to try to answer these points and to say some reassuring sentences to the people of South Somogy, if appropriate, that, yes, the lines I have just spoken about will not be dismantled, will remain, and will restore normal transport there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-06-15-255	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-06-15-256	Thank you, Mr. President. The only reason I asked you to speak again is to try to convince Mr. Secretary of State not only to say a closing word at the end, but to try to comment and explain the unexplainable. And I have one more question. One of my most important questions is when the so-called interim epidemiological agenda will be restored, and when a normal timetable will finally be put in place, when a normal transport strategy will finally be put in place, when such a strategic decision will be taken, because it will be ten years late. By the way, there are many such quotes from Mr Fó Nagy, former Minister of State, the last Hungarian Minister of Transport, and I am deeply sorry and I find it shameful that he agrees with this rail-destructive policy, and he added his name. I think it's practically his professional career being ignored or smeared in the mud. But I also ask the Secretary of State to answer the question that this outrageous railroad-breaking decision has anything to do with the opening up of the bus market. From January next year, inter-city bus transport has to be opened, and according to bad languages, this decision has also been made to put bus and coach transport in such a position. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the fleet acquired by the acquisition of vehicles, which was unused, are trying to put it in a position. But I really hope that doesn't have anything to do with it. Thank you in advance for your answers.
u2020-06-15-257	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr László Mosóczi, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2020-06-15-258	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Three weeks ago, the publication of the 2009 and 2018 amendments to the Protocol to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail adopted in Vilnius on 9 May 1980 in Bern began three weeks ago and the 2006 LXXVII on the publication of the Protocol of 3 June 1999 adopted in Vilnius amending the Convention on International Carriage by Rail in Bern on 9 May 1980. a debate on a bill amending law. The primary objective of the bill is to announce the amendments adopted to the International Convention for Carriage by Rail and its Appendices at the 13th General Meeting of the Intergovernmental Organisation for Transport by Rail in Bern on 25-26 September 2018, and to transpose some minor amendments that have become necessary into the domestic legal order. The main purpose of the amendment is to cover the entry into force of amendments to the Appendices to the Convention adopted by the General Assembly for a specified period of 36 months. [[18.40]] Dear House, By adopting the Act, the International Convention for Carriage by Rail and its Appendices will contain updated, up-to-date terminology, and the amendments will make the operation of the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Carriage by Rail more efficient. Our country, as a full member of the organisation, applies the provisions of the International Convention for Carriage by Rail with binding effect in the administrative supervision and operational management of international rail passenger and freight transport. We are interested in making the changes that are beneficial for Hungary as soon as possible. The international rail interstate body seeks to make international rail passenger transport and freight easier, smoother and more modern. This ambition is also a fundamental principle of transport policy for Hungary. I am pleased and thank you for the fact that the majority of the factions agreed with the content of the bill, as already indicated during the general debate. The summarised amendment merely focused on the legal and linguistic specifications of the bill. Dear Parliament, In order to allow for the entry into force of decisions adopted at the general meeting of the international rail interstate organisation in Bern on 12 October 2018, it is necessary that two thirds of the current Member States adopt them. The amendments shall enter into force in each Member State 12 months thereafter. Amendments to the Appendices, which were decided by the General Assembly, shall enter into force in each Member State 12 months after they are accepted by half the Member States. From the Hungarian side, we can join Austria, Finland, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Germany, which have already notified the depositary of the adoption of the amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. And then allow me a few more thoughts on community transport. The Hungarian state, represented by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, is the customer of inter-local community transport. Indeed, Hungary's transport policy declares that rail passenger transport is the backbone of public transport and that the bus network must complement this. Of course, there are a lot of destinations, a lot of settlements in Hungary that do not have a railway, they need to be served, and the bus also has a role in diagonal connections that could only be very complicated and complicated with the railway. In the role of the responsible farmer, the State must manage the means for Community transport. The situation of the coronal virus epidemic has reduced public transport demand, so there were very few passengers on the railway sidelines as well. On the lines where the average number of passengers did not reach two or five per train, it was recommended that the train should be replaced by the same timetable or a timetable, since the approach of the municipalities by rail or by road is not always equally possible, given that the cost of the train replacement bus is not even one third the cost of the train running there. The low number of passengers in use was disciplined and vowed to stay at home and sufficient to transport such a large amount of passengers as far as possible. The government never said that it would eliminate rail passenger transport on these sidelines, since at least one pair of trains remained everywhere near the train replacement buses. Of course, as the epidemic has ceased, we are looking at the situation of these lines, these timetables, in parallel with the return to normal economic and social life. We will monitor the number of passengers on both train replacement buses and on the Volán buses and on the train and, accordingly, we will restore the original timetable stepwise. Hungary has a railway development policy, which includes not only the role of railway in public transport, but also our role in freight transport, our international relations and relations with Hungarians across the border, because this government created the Budapest-Munkács, the Budapest-Essay and I would like to say which railway lines we are discussing with Slovakia on the restoration of the Drégelypalánk-Polyság connection, which ended in 1968. So Hungary also has a Community transport policy, part of which is the compulsory bus application mentioned by the Member, which is our EU obligation. Following last year's 371 million kilometers of performance, only 360 million kilometers of power will be ordered from Volánbus this year, and this will gradually decrease with the modernisation of railway lines. After all, the Budapest-Sixty railway line will soon be in operation with full capacity, where we have implemented a significant modernisation, so besides Hatvan Gyöngyös, Eger, Miskolc, Sátoraljaújhely and Nyíregyháza can get a more qualitative railway connection from Miskolc. Of course, we will adapt the timetable for buses here, so that we can monitor the development of bus and coach performances in parallel with the increase in rail transport. So rail market opening and rail sidelines have nothing to do with each other. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-259	Thank you very much, Secretary of State László Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting tomorrow. The 1997 CLV on consumer protection follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/10524. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-06-15-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 11 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. T/10524. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 21 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 9 abstentions. Dear House, With the bill before us, the aim is to strengthen the control framework of the Consumer Protection Authority, in the interests of consumers and companies that follow the law. Under the proposal, the Consumer Protection Authority also gives the consumer authority powers to carry out the procedure in the event that the consumer is the ultimate recipient of the sale, in relation to entities that are more widely defined than the current one, such as companies, cooperatives, branches of a foreign company in Hungary, individual companies or individual enterprises. According to the draft law, the Consumer Protection Authority may carry out checks not only against retailers and sellers who have direct contractual relations with the consumer in the case of a product intended for sale, but also, for example, carry out checks with a wholesaler or warehouse operator and, if they experience an infringement, may act against them. It should be underlined that the consumer protection is controlled only in a supply chain where the consumer is the ultimate player. The practical aim of the proposal submitted is therefore to give consumer protection the power to carry out an administrative procedure against them, subject to the control of entities. In other words, the Consumer Protection Authority may also act against wholesalers, warehouses, logistics providers and manufacturers, provided that they have direct or indirect effects on the production, storage, placing on the market or use of products intended for sale to consumers. Dear Parliament, The consumer protection proposal before us contains a number of important points, but also strengthens the consumer protection authority's control options for consumers and fair, compliant businesses. With the adoption of the bill, consumers and businesses can expect more effective protection, and it will be possible to eliminate unfair market practices more quickly, as consumer protection can be targeted where the infringement occurs. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.50]]
u2020-06-15-261	Thank you very much, Congressman Ádám Hey, David. I would like to ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, whether you wish to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] He'll tell you later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2020-06-15-262	Mr President, Dear House, I know it will be surprising from the opposition side, but I believe that the proposal before us is at the end of a well-prepared, well-oriented flow chart, or even more so, I hope, in the middle of it. There is only one point in it that, despite its best intention, the single opposition representative and his group will not be able to vote in favour of this package, which is typically the possibility of entering private apartments, even in justified cases. Obviously, if we could put all the political aspects aside, it might be much easier to support this. Perhaps you'll forgive me for not being able to do this in all cases, even if, as a representative committed to consumer protection, I am in favour of all reasonable amendments. So, on the non-voting side, it's just as excluded as, unfortunately, for the reasons described above, yes. I am pleased to express the changes that can be made here in terms of the consumer chain and at the end of the consumer, however, to intermediaries with a much wider set of tools than before. It is clear that the largest mass of fraud and abuse is not necessarily committed at the last stages, and it is not certain that the consumer will even be directly associated with the fraud process, it may be only accusing him of this, but obviously there are numerous cases in the case of wholesale institutions, logistics centres or even in the case of re-packing scandals raised during previous debates where action should be taken. The legislator's diligence must extend to these possibilities, and it must also provide the authority with a subpoena, but also armaments. However, for mysterious reasons, we may not have been able to move as fast from a consumer point of view in the last 30 years as the modern IT and technical achievements have often gone by our side. There are obviously economic, social and sociological reasons for this, and we do not expect anything impossible, and we do not expect to have an immediate set of tools for all newly developed technical innovations. I, to add, do not shy away from more radical means, so if we can find a portal that has qualified and already found out, say, that it distributes products that are harmful to health or harmful to children, I am sure that I would also vote in favour of an amendment that literally shuts down this intermediary from the virtual world and, where appropriate, removes it from the market. So I have a much tougher sanctioning system close to me. You may remember those who were here between 2010-14, that when we discussed the fine limit that could be imposed on multi-company companies, it was still the better Members who had scratched this increase, and that, through the adoption of the amendment by my fellow Member, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, Jobbik's intention finally became a reality. In this case, I would not shy away from a much tougher sanctioning system, but in a country where, unfortunately, Facebook comments can wait for someone to be questioned, allow me caution. I am not distrustful of the people of this office, not of competent professionals, and I would also like to express my appreciation to the Deputy State Secretary, her colleagues, because they are here in every debate, and they also appear in their public appearances that they are paying attention to this area, and they are constantly trying to invent ideas and introduce new achievements on this quoted market. So if the Government of Hungary and the network of experts behind it were to operate in all areas like this, I think we would have much less debate in this Parliament. I believe that there is little more praise on the part of the opposition representative in a parliament, but this must be said, because the truth cannot and must not be avoided. At the same time, I see that this trust vacuum, which has developed, with a proposal that has not been properly addressed, can be deepened. Hungary has become a country where real political tribal wars take place, where members of the various political chariot camps are apparently unable to trust each other, and are no longer able to trust each other. So when a proposal comes in, which involves entering private homes in any way, I repeat, the opposition representative cannot support it. The intentions behind it, yes. I wish the Government of Hungary had been so determined when we should have dealt with our biggest consumer problem! Obviously, I am thinking about the calvary of foreign exchange credentials. I think it's amazing that we're still having this problem, and I'm always told by my fellow members of government that under the nasty socialists, all hell broke loose, and that's the truth, and I have no reason to argue that. I wish I could go back to 2001, when, if we remember who was on the government, we can also remember that unilateral treaty amendments are easier to allow for that period, because of then leaders. We can also remember, of course, that during the eight-year Balliberal period, foreign currency loans have grown enormously, and although warnings have come from all over the world, these warnings have essentially not been heard by anyone, all hell has broken loose. Then, after 2010, the possibility of consolidation came, the period when the Calvary of credit victims could have been settled, and, in connection with this biggest consumer scandal, Hungary's Government not only bled out but dropped the gun, it fell to its knees before the banking interests, then, after allowing the market rate to shake on Hungarian citizens instead of forinting at the exchange rate at the time of admission, causing literally a thousand billion-dollar damage to Hungarian customers, victims and indemnities, the Government of Hungary has not yet passed a pact on behalf of the prominent representatives of the banking system, as well as the EBRD, which is described in the 2015 Pact, on a government website in English, as well, and has undertaken not to put more than one forint on banks in order to settle the situation of the injured. Thus, this total surrender of arms, a consumer disaster, a horror, cannot be found with strong enough signs, but because this capitulation has been made by the government, it must not be done by rejecting any further consumer advice from guts and hips. Therefore, with regard to the package before us, I would like to express my maximum good intentions, and to captivate the government to take over, implement, translate, or expand, not only ideas invented abroad, but also to create a system of tools in which we oppositionists can support. This is obviously the extension of the sanctioning system. I don't want to be incorrect. I see the hands tied, and I see that in a European economic area it is not possible to come up with and introduce a system of sanctions of its own, because then European big brothers with quotes come along and say that it would be appropriate to coordinate these instruments in a single market, but I also think that within this margin, the current government can be expected to represent a strong national interest. If we were to highlight just one very wide social group, I would like to say as a practicing father that I think it would be 100% positive if, at least in the area of goods, services and various preparations affecting our children, we could reach a safety of not 100%, but about 100%. I see how much more alarms Hungary is sending to the international central system than in previous years, and I encourage this path, but I also encourage the Government of Hungary to strike the table on this issue in Brussels, yes, turn off the webshops for fraudulent abuse, take these intermediaries and service providers out of the market, even if willfulness and deceit are proven and proved, but with regard to a much tougher sanctioning system, believe me, they will have partners. On this issue, I can and would like to make an alliance with all well-meaning Hungarian public figures and professionals. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-15-263	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-06-15-264	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you first of all for your interest and support in the debate on the proposal to amend the law on consumer protection, and I would also like to thank you for your input in the general debate and for your contribution to the work of the draft law. In recent months, consumer protection has been at the front line against possible deceptions, tricks and profiteers taking advantage of an emergency. [[19.00]] That is why I would like to thank Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát for his commendable words on the work of my colleagues who have done very, very much in recent years in order to ensure that trade and the situation of consumers are good and clear. The viral crisis has clearly pointed out that a wider consumer control option is essential for the effective detection of infringements; it should be possible for the authority to act against all actors in the supply chain, such as the warehouse and wholesaler, in addition to retailers with direct contact with the final consumer, in addition to shops, as has already been said in the comments. The amendment before you strengthens the Consumer Protection Authority's control framework for consumers and decent entrepreneurs. During the general debate, this House has carefully examined the bill, and no amendment has been tabled. The detailed discussion of the bill was conducted by the Economic Committee. The Committee has made language, codification and legal amendments which do not affect the substance of the bill. The Legislative Committee did not submit its own amendment. Dear Parliament, It was also mentioned in the general debate on the draft law that, in exceptional cases, the proposed regulation opens up the possibility of checking private dwellings. I would like to point out that this may be necessary, for example, if the private apartment has the seat of a webshop. The general administrative law currently provides the authority with the option, but we have incorporated even stricter guarantee rules into the consumer protection law. The law thus makes such verification subject, inter alia, to the prior authorisation of the Prosecutor's Office. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We have also agreed the provisions of the law amendment with the Supreme Prosecutor and the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. That is why I have to correct some points in Daniel Z. Carpathian's speech. He is trying to scare people, who may be looking at this debate during this late afternoon and early evening, about the consequences of this amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in recent months or in recent years, even more, looking back into the past, whatever alarms they caused, trying to create fear, it has always been proven that it has not been true, many times, it can be said that they have tried to do so in a false way. He spoke of a political tribal war in one of his thoughts, one of his sentences. I think he meant his own party when he talked about tribal political war, because there's a war going on in public between you and your own party, in your own faction. So it's a shame to bring here political manifestations and thoughts that don't belong closely to this law. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Therefore, this House, with the amendments presented above, we expect more effective protection for consumers, more effective protection for consumers and for businesses, the authority can eliminate unfair market practices more quickly, since it can act in a targeted manner where the infringement occurs. The bill before you is in everyone's best interest to strengthen the Consumer Protection Authority. I therefore call for the changes to the bill to be supported in the vote in order to ensure more effective consumer protection. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-265	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the debate of the Commission's report on the proposal to end the emergency is now under way. The government referral is T/10747. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] State Secretary Orbán, please.
u2020-06-15-266	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We have two legislative proposals before us, which we are discussing separately for technical reasons, but they are very closely linked in substance. The one I'm about to talk about is T/10747. Bill No. 1 to end the emergency. I think that I am discussing one of the most important legislative proposals in terms of political history and parliamentary aristocracy from a political point of view, because there has not been a situation in which Hungary, following the change of regime, was faced with a challenge in which a special legal status should have been declared to the entire territory of the country on the basis of a mandate granted in the Fundamental Law or previously in the Constitution. This was required by the control of the coronal virus epidemic. On 11 March, in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the Government declared an emergency and then, in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, also asked for an extension of the emergency measures beyond 15 days, which it received from the majority of Parliament, and as a result, we can say today that the first phase of protection against the epidemic has been successfully completed. So the special legal order that the government has requested from Parliament, we can give it back. I think the first word is thanks. Thank you to all those who have taken part in the control of the coronal virus epidemic and have contributed to the national unit without which we could not have been able to defend ourselves so successfully. All those directly involved in defence, health care workers, social sector, law enforcement workers, public administration workers have arrived, and everyone who has participated indirectly in the defence is practically every Hungarian citizen, as everyone has contributed to the flattening of the epidemic curve for at least one stay at home, which is why everyone should be thanked for it. As a matter of fact, I should like to thank the Members of Parliament, the Members of Parliament who supported the Law on the Protection of Crown Virus, which was a special legal arrangement. Without this disease control, I am also thinking of life, health and job preservation and job creation so successfully, at least at the first stage of it, we could not have closed it, we could not have made the decisions that were absolutely clear in order to protect against the epidemic. But now that the health care system is prepared, the epidemic curve is flattened, the special legal order can be revoked by Parliament. The government supports this, and this is shown by the fact that the bill before us has been tabled by the government. It is a short bill, a request to the government and, on the other hand, an expiry of the Coronary Virus Protection Act itself. A number of constructive and supportive contributions were also made in the general debate and in the debate before the committees, and I thank you very much for this. We have also heard a number of less constructive proposals on the opposition side. I am sad because we were hoping that this would be a case in which the opposition parties would play their part in national cooperation for at least one vote in favour. This has not happened, but if I do not open the political battle of everyday life now, I would just like to say that I think that all errors can be corrected, and one of the most obvious ways to correct the error could be if the bill before us and then to be negotiated goes through Parliament with unanimous support. That's what I trust. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-267	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you have 10 minutes and 20 seconds to comment on the debate and to close. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. The time frame distribution is as follows: Fidesz 27 minutes, KDNP 13 minutes, Jobbik 9 minutes, MSZP 9 minutes, DK 7 minutes, LMP 6 minutes, Dialogue 5 minutes, Independent 4 minutes. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, we can hear the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, is the first. Here you go. [[19.10]]
u2020-06-15-268	Mr President, Dear House, It can be seen that the debate on the proposal to put an end to the emergency has been going on practically since this emergency was ordered by the Government of Hungary; let us add that it was not the order that was wrong, it was absolutely right. Then, unfortunately, it became a political product, but perhaps the Secretary of State can confirm that at the end of the 15 days, at the end of the interim measures, when the opposition and the government unanimously did not accept the bill, the end of the world did not come, so at the moment of its conception it turned out that the proposal did not comply with the government's justification. I mean, if you recall, Mr. Secretary, then the Chief Medical Officer was able to order the schools to remain closed on her own, and the Minister of the Interior was able to arrange with a feather stroke not to reopen the borders, so all previous alarm-like proposals under which a confrontational acceptance which would have given overpowers, how dangerous it would have been, had been pretty much overdone at the time of conception, and it turned out that, fortunately, that was not the case. We also see that the removal of an emergency can be absolutely justified and justified, and I am more afraid of the phenomena that lie behind it. It doesn't matter at all what powers the Government of Hungary has assigned to it by the Power Act and what it has done behind the Power Act, so behind the stage and the set. You, of course, have grasped a mantra that some opponents have claimed that Parliament will not meet; I would add that in the first days, pro-governments have argued that a power law is necessary because there is no guarantee that Parliament will function. [[Nacsa Lawrence says no.]] But it became part of such a political give-and-take, where, in the sandbox, government and opposition practically hammered each other with the quotes yellow shovel. What is more important is that another promise has been made that, in the shadow of the delegation law, Parliament will not deal with matters that are not closely related to the epidemiological defence, in Hungarian: our work would have been limited to taking our part in the defence, as the Secretary of State rightly said, and, where appropriate, it could be done by one vote. I do not want to classify the political activities of others, in the case of my community, the fact that after a concentrated collection we distributed protective equipment in Budapest and large cities, I believe that it could serve the people there at least as much, but obviously history and posterity will decide on this, and I do not want to classify your actions in this respect. Anyone who tried to help me, I have good intentions, and I'm glad he wanted to serve his country. There was a member of the opposition, Mr Lajos Rig, who got back in the ambulance, and I think it was very good that he went this way, and other parties' representatives also volunteered, and obviously many of our fellow members of the government helped to defend themselves in the field. Hats off to everyone who could help. At the same time, I see that there are things behind the proposal to put an end to the emergency that are waiting for clarification with the greatest goodwill. To give you an example: in the first days Jobbik threw in the idea of suspending loan repayments, then other parties spoke on this issue, and the Government of Hungary quite rightly ordered a moratorium on credit repayment. We will have long professional debates on why and how much more expensive these repayments will be when the moratorium expires, without any chance that roughly half of the stakeholders who could have done so did not choose the moratorium because they calculated it and realized that it would be more expensive for him overall, but we should not discuss the good nature of the institution, the maximum error in this respect. What we're seeing is that so far, both on paper and supposedly, the auctions had to stand. Mr Secretary of State, I expect a very clear answer as to why they have included in their package of epidemiological protection and emergency eradication, and so in all the legislative proposals that concern this, that the bidding hour of the auctions has started to tick again. Mr. Secretary, did you think we were past the economic crisis? Do you think that those who have not yet been able to pay the debt may be able to start the auctions if they are unable to fulfil the obligation, and then the evictions? So you really thought we were two or three months behind this? I think it's amazing that in the middle of a social cataclysm, it can happen that there will be auctions again, and this clock, Mr. Secretary, is starting to tick, it's incomprehensible, but read your own package. You brought it to Parliament, so obviously I am not the one who has to prove that it covers this subject, but you have to know it in your own right. And the fact is, if this is presented in this way and in this way, along with the other proposals, then that particular bard will begin to swing over the credit-damaged and potential future credit-damaged ones. I believe that all political arguments should be put aside in this case. You should acknowledge that this is an extraordinary situation where we are at the beginning of the vortexes of the economic crisis, and there is no man on earth who can predict how serious this is. On the opposition side, we should focus on the fact that if there is any minimum consensus in this Hungarian political puddle, let us say that we should protect the credit-damaged from even greater trouble, then together we should provide all kinds of tools for this. What I see is that your proposals point in the opposite direction. As I said on the previous item, how the credit victims were betrayed, I must now say that these proposals are preparing future evictions. 'Cause the frozen repayments may be frozen by the end of the year, but if the auctions start to spin, if the debt managers spin up their activities, then next year, as soon as the eviction moratorium expires, I'm not right, but we'll have to watch hundreds, thousands of people drop our countrymen out of their homes. I can't do this. I can't give you a hand with this. However, I expect the government to clarify why, by eliminating or declaring an emergency, it is unable to put a package on the table that protects these people in the long term or for several years. I understand you're looking for the favors of the banks, the financial institutions, and I can see that with regard to the epidemiological defense fund, where we're taking 50 percent of the support of the parties. I think the municipalities are being irrationally bled out, but I also see that they are not so hard on the multinationals and banks. Multi- and Hungarian companies are also subject to a retail special tax, but banks are subject to a 50 billion-dollar item, a 50 billion-dollar special tax, to remind the Secretary of State that we are talking about a sector that accumulates a profit of 600-700 billion a year, which they can write down from their tax to the last bone in five years. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] And they're still being supported through the MNB's credit line with a 4 percent Marzz of a thousand billion-dollar magnitude. Secretary of State, that's about 40 billion forints! So instead of a $55 billion deposit, these institutions get $40 billion. How's that? Where's the public cargo? At the same time, because of the packages before us, not only this, but all the packages that resolve the crisis, the situation arises that, according to your paragraphs, the processes that have been frozen until the auction are restarted, the clock is ticking again, the auction is back on, and once the eviction moratorium expires, people are thrown out of their homes by mass. Not only is this unacceptable, but giving it permission would certainly make our peaceful sleep impossible in the coming years. Therefore, no one on this earth can ask us to promote the calvary of those who are credit-damaged even in this form. We want to solve their situation, just like we did today, yesterday, and we'll be on the battlefield until even one of them is in trouble. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-15-269	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, MSZP, here you go.
u2020-06-15-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. We will be very happy to vote in favour of the bill on emergency eradication, even because of its sports value, as this is the bill that virtually symbolically demonstrates the absurd situation of the current Hungarian policy. This bill is about the Government, that is, Viktor Orbán, asking Parliament to take note in parentheses, the majority group of Viktor Orbán to ask the Government, that is, Viktor Orbán, to bring the Prime Minister to an end, to call the man Viktor Orbán. That's what this bill is about. [[19.20]] And why we have to go into this game, we must, of course, go back to the beginning of the period when the emergency was announced, because the Secretary of State said very precisely that the Hungarian government declared the emergency under the Fundamental Law. He also made it somewhat clear that the Hungarian Parliament, under the Fundamental Law, could extend the regulations that were adopted there by a half majority within 15 days for more than 15 days. Then why was this whole circus? It was because, on the one hand, in the Covid Act, the Government asked for a much broader mandate than the current Fundamental Law and, on the other hand, asked for it without a time limit. We also said that in such a situation, we have no objection to a wider mandate. All the opposition asked for was a time limit. We said 90 days, and those 90 days are about to expire. If the Hungarian Government had accepted this, the Hungarian Parliament could have taken a unanimous decision and we would be sitting right here in Parliament and debating the bill to abolish it. But on the grounds of the Covid bill submitted, Secretary of State, you wrote this in. They keep talking about what a conspiracy the world press had here, that there would be no parliamentary session and that the opposition would be hysterical. Mr State Secretary, you have literally written in the grounds for that bill that you cannot put a deadline in the law because the Hungarian Parliament may not be able to meet because of the outbreak of the virus. You wrote this in as a reason. Do not be surprised, then, if relatively many thought that this might actually happen. And after both domestic and international pressure and, to add, on the basis of public opinion polls, it has become clear to you that in many of your voters there are doubts about this type of delegation law, the communication of this to a fidesz mode has begun. The whole point of this communication was to sedate him that you would give back to the Hungarian Parliament some right to decide. In this bill, we will make an informational decision tomorrow. We'll be very happy to vote for you. But the text of the Fundamental Law is not overwritten with anything, nor with this decision. And the Fundamental Law clearly states that the emergency is declared by the government, and that the government, only the government, can put an end to it. I think the government is very pleased if the Hungarian Parliament, with a vote, even spiritually confirms it. But there is a huge difference between retreats and real legal and political decisions. I therefore believe that this has been particularly harmful, that it has once again strengthened the disintegration of the country, and that it is clearly the responsibility of the governing parties that this has happened. Once again, from the very first moment, we have said that we will vote in favour of the extraordinary powers given to this government beyond the Fundamental Law, and we ask for nothing more than to include a deadline in this, in line with the European political culture. And you said, Mr. Secretary, that you can't put 90 days in it, because what if Parliament can't meet in 90 days? After that, for weeks they talked about what everyone was afraid of, that Parliament would not meet, well, well, Parliament would meet. Well, come on, figure out if you're going somewhere with arguments or lies, at least try to stick to it and not change one with the other. To sum up, this bill will indeed have historical and historical significance, probably in its own way in law schools, perhaps a few years or decades from now they will show you that you have seen it, which is what it was in this country. But beyond that, I'll say it again, it's of maximum political significance. If we look at the political significance of this law, at least I am aware of it, but my fellow Members may be able to correct it tomorrow, and Parliament will vote roughly unanimously. It means that the government will ask Parliament to ask the government to stop this emergency at some point in time, and we will support this great law. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-271	Thank you. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, please.
u2020-06-15-272	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, To come to the end of the emergency, it is worth taking account of what has happened, and it is worth responding to the opposition criticisms that have been raised here. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpat, asked me what the government was doing during the emergency, in accordance with the extraordinary legal order, and tried to refer to suspicious things. But let's see what the government's been doing all this time. He organized health protection, built Europe's most modern mobile epidemic hospital in record time, put professionals in order, organized the doctor's schedule, the paramedics' procedures, the laboratories, launched the procurement of various protective equipment, built the infrastructure in hospitals, where oxygen and other infrastructures were needed, and obviously closed the borders. So the government has done everything in its power to deal with the coronal virus epidemic as successfully as possible. Now, at the end of phase one, we can safely say that the country has managed this successfully, it has successfully survived. Of course, every life lost hurts and we mourn for them, but what we see is that if we look around Western Europe, North and South America, Asia or anywhere that the coronal virus epidemic has been handled specifically well by Hungary. What my socialist fellow Member talked about: we said that there could be an epidemic, because in March no specialist could have told us when the roof would be roofed, how long the epidemic would last, what it would look like in the epidemic curve, and what would happen, what would happen if we had entered the stage of mass sickness, so we said that there might have been an occasion and that there would have been a chance that we would have handled the epidemic badly when the Hungarian Parliament could not have met. The only thing you've been spreading is that with the corona virus law, we're trying to eliminate Parliament. You know, my fellow Member, that's a very different concept. We said that there could be a number of diseases, and that Members could be affected in such a number that the Hungarian Parliament is not a quorum, while you said that with the Crown Virus Act, Viktor Orbán wants to eliminate the Hungarian Parliament, while here we have often debated the various legislative proposals from week to week, day to night; because the government has complied with the principle of necessity and proportionality, which you have asked, by the way, to be included in the law, and I think it has been correctly incorporated into the law. So the government followed the principles of necessity and proportionality. The other thing, I do not think, is that it will be a document of law or political history that we will be voting on tomorrow, but it will be an event of political history or it will be recorded by historians that there has not been yet a country in which the opposition has withdrawn from crisis management. But not only has he withdrawn himself, but he has also hindered his defense. He has been hindered by false news, as we have heard from Szabó Timea that Hungary has the highest mortality rate in the world, and the government's experts, the epidemiological defense experts, have always had to deal with your attacks to correct their truth. My ringing fellow Member used the word that this bill is symbolic, because it shows the government's policy. Well, that's symbolic, Congressman, which is your video. Today, the producer just dared to come to Parliament for five minutes. The symbolic, the condition of the Hungarian left is that nothing is expensive for you to attack the protection against the epidemic, nothing is expensive for you to attack the government's activities. In the last three months, you have tried to hinder defence and discredit Hungary with all kinds of lies at home and to discredit Hungarian defence abroad. This law is about you being wrong again. I am glad that the MSZP voted in favour of this bill. I wouldn't think it would be unanimous, because Jobbik just said he wouldn't vote for it, or he wouldn't vote for it, so it won't be unanimous. But I am asking you not only to vote for this and to apologize not to us but to your own voters for not being involved in the fight against the epidemic, and even trying to make it harder with false videos and Fake news. That's all we're asking you to do. The National Assembly will hopefully vote for this tomorrow, the emergency will end, but the alert against the epidemic will continue, because the epidemic may return, the epidemic is among us, it has not ceased. We hope there won't be a second wave, but we have to prepare for it. I would like to thank everyone who has done everything in the first phase to ensure the health and safety of Hungarian people, starting with health professionals on social workers, law enforcement workers, freight forwarders, teachers and experts from the Hungarian government, in order to ensure that the control of the epidemic is successful. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-273	Congressman László László Keresztes, LMP!
u2020-06-15-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is right to begin today's debate on this bill with thanks, so I thank again everyone who has worked to protect the health and safety of Hungarian people. And thanks to all Hungarian people for their disciplined compliance with the instructions, they followed the restrictive measures. Obviously, everyone's life has been fundamentally made difficult by this situation, and it is causing enormous damage, and today we cannot even assess exactly what kind of damage it will cause. [[19.30]] Technically, the economic crisis is unfolding, and yet, I don't think anyone can accurately appreciate it. It is quite clear that the situation itself was unprecedented, that at such a level it has virtually or severely stopped the entire world economy, and indeed, they have sought a solution, every government in every country, not only in Europe, but globally, is a huge challenge, and it has to be said that in many places they are still going into the period of infection, so obviously in different parts of the world, this situation has appeared differently in different countries. Indeed, it was special, and so was the debate itself, as this mandate began, or I do not know if it was a special legal order, we can call it the debate of law. I myself, we can say, was there every moment, so at the meetings between the various factions, at the House Committee meetings where we talked about this situation, and no one really knew what was going to happen. Back then, at the beginning, it seemed that we could begin a debate with a consensus, with an appropriate tone, with a tone of gravity of the matter. I myself was confident, and my fellow Member said that we all accepted that in such a situation, we needed a special mandate, we needed a special legal order, and it seemed very much, even for government participants, that this could be a legislative proposal adopted with a consensus that gives us the opportunity and means, the legal means of defence. And there came a moment when the government, I feel, made a political decision to strengthen their political benefits in this situation, and then they made the outrageous decision that the only real, important question, the inclusion of the time limit, would be denied, and they practically declared the entire opposition a traitor. If we look at the justification for this bill, you are talking about historical responsibility in various aspects. I believe that there really is a historical responsibility for those who, in such an epidemiological situation, do not seek political consensus, not the end of party political battles, but are trying to capitalise on political capital even in this situation, and you have done so, honourable Members. Indeed, I have also heard from the opposition side manifestations that were unworthy and shameful, but it is certain that no one from the LMP faction could hear dictatorship, and we have taken a constructive approach to this issue. We really have been trying to reach a consensus here on the bill until the last moment during the debate and during the parliamentary elections, and we can show the Hungarian society that what it expects in such a serious epidemiological situation can be completed, at least the couple's political battles can be suspended in order to achieve this. And you said no, that's quite clear. Let us recall, fellow Members, from a very important government figure, even from the Prime Minister, what kind of statements have been made by ministers, or when the opposition first started to propose the closure of educational institutions, then what is the reaction from the former Prime Minister. However, I can also say that, at the same time, LMP was the first to propose the closure of shopping centres and other community spaces, and we have always stressed that in this situation, at the time of the disease control, there is no strict measure that we would not support in order to preserve the health of Hungarian people. Yet, we have managed to make such completely shameful and vile statements on the government side, of which Congressman Nacsa was one of the key speakers, that the opposition was on the side of the virus and that the opposition was obstructing defence. I am sorry, Congressman, this is simply outrageous and unworthy of the Hungarian Parliament, that a representative calling himself a Christian Democrat made such vile lies and outrageous attacks on opposition representatives. So from this point of view, unfortunately, it was indeed a political history curiosity to debate this legislation, vote in favour and subsequent government communication. I'd like to talk about one more thing briefly. If we read the justification, then they are talking about an unprecedented cooperation, but at the same time, I think, fellow Members, that they have forgotten, they have misplaced the municipalities. We have seen in many places that, in this uncertain situation, when no one has really been able to assess the impact and exit of this, the municipalities have started taking first action in many places, and they have started to take care of protective equipment and take measures that could slow down the fight against the epidemic, and have helped and supported people and families in difficult situations. On the other hand, the government, and we can talk here, I think that the historical responsibility, almost exclusively with austerity measures and withdrawals, has hit the municipalities with completely inexplicable withdrawals. This is also an outrage because it does not happen, but we must beware that a second wave of the virus may appear, or even if it does not, a pandemic of a similar nature can reach Hungary at any time, and, yes, there is a need for the defence capabilities of the municipalities, and it is necessary that, as the number one bastion of defense, the authorities have all the material and legal means and knowledge to do this defense. Unfortunately, the measures you have taken are counterproductive, so I am asking you to reconsider these measures and to withdraw these austerity measures precisely for the safety of the Hungarian people. And what I can tell you is that the LMP fraction also intends to vote in favour of this legislation, and I think we can agree that it is time to withdraw it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Despite the fact that this alone is only a political declaration.
u2020-06-15-275	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, MSZP!
u2020-06-15-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow Member of the Government's speech, because he has taken it a little personal, but I see that this is his job obligation, he may also do it with great pleasure, and I do not rule that out. My fellow Member spoke about it and asked or claimed that the opposition did not take part in or even ventured forward. I have a completely different feeling and a completely different memory. As an opposing Member of Parliament, at least in the first minute our faction added more than 1 million HUF 200 thousand each of its paid fees, from which we bought protective equipment and later on, a durable food, and delivered it to where it was most needed. You know, my fellow Member, in my case, Szekszárd and its surroundings, in that constituency, we have, among other things, sent the elderly people in need to a pharmacy and a family doctor who had not yet received assistance from the government. And in the way they did their job, let me not go along with it, but then tell me that we didn't take our part in the defense. We are not a government, my fellow Member, we are not sitting over decisions and money, but, compared to our own options, I think that we have done the best we can. And yes, we continue to believe that no government can be authorised without a time limit in Europe, and if it were the other way round, and we were on the government, you would be the loudest person to object to such a proposal. So I ask you, with all due respect, once again, that I understand the political intentions and the game, but at least tell the truth about the things that are completely objectively accountable. Nevertheless, once again, the bill on withdrawal will be voted in favour. As for the video issue, my honourable fellow Member, Lilla Szeleczki is in that video, her mother was sent home overnight with six underlying diseases, according to the decision of Miklós Kásler. He suffered at home for six days, and when they saw that the situation was untenable, they took him back to the hospital where he died. Not for you, not for your family, not for anyone, not for a bad political decision. Of course, the goal was to prove it, to demonstrate it, because we were already saying that Miklós Kásler here also denied that there was a hospital evacuation. He started talking about how patients and doctors were responsible for all of this, while we had one important goal, and we had the video, even if it was a problem. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is there a problem?!]] Lett! He did, yeah. There was nothing intentional about it. To present this situation that has happened [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: You don't have to protect everything!]] Tell that to Lilla Szeleczki, my friend, in this style. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And that this should never happen again in this country, if there is a second wave next time, do not think about making such a decision, and that is what we want to achieve in the future. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-277	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-06-15-278	Thank you very much. Mr President, I do not doubt that as individuals, I believe that in our faction as well, as I know this situation as an individual, in any way or in the way that you have said it, but as a Member of Parliament, in which you could have played your part, which I thought in my speech, you voted against the decisions necessary to defend yourself, with which the government was able to implement the defence, for example, I think, in making the decisions necessary for defence, or in not taking your part, because you voted against it. [[19.40]] What did they do? The people involved in the defense were attacked in person, some were even attacked because of their faith, professionals personally involved in the defence, you filled the international media with various accusations, slanders that weren't true, you spread false news on social media and your own media, you made false videos. I understand that it has come to pass, Congressman, that some things are easier not to talk about, just not to say things like that, that it has become a problem at the end, and it has become a problem, and obviously it also denies that you knew any problems. That's what I'm saying: they didn't take their part in the defense because they should have voted in favour of the defense law, they shouldn't have spread false news, they shouldn't have planted slander on the international media, they shouldn't have attacked the specialists involved in the epidemic in their person and in their faith. I'm telling you, as a Member of Parliament, you could have been involved in these. Who has done what as a private individual is very fine if someone has helped, shopped older people, donated for important purposes, otherwise encouraged people to stay at home on their own surfaces, but as a Member of Parliament, they would have had the responsibility of the left. Unfortunately, the left didn't take a good exam in these. I understand you're going to vote tomorrow, and I think it's a good decision to vote for this bill tomorrow, and it should only have been three months ago to think ahead, and not make false videos. Thank you very much. [[Happy Stephen applauds.]]
u2020-06-15-279	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Mr Orbán, as rapporteur, wishes to reflect. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Yes.]] You have the floor. You know the time frame, but if you don't know, I'll tell you. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Yes, I am aware of that. I'm not gonna talk until then. Thank you very much.]] Okay, I'll let you know, but you have the floor.
u2020-06-15-280	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Basically, I did not, or just wanted to speak very briefly, but on the one hand, I am very pleased that Mr Bellozó is finally waiting for the answer. We've argued several times, several times about the authority to control the corona virus, but this is the first time you've waited for the pro-government and the secretary of state to answer. I'm very happy for you. On the other hand, in addition to expressing the condolences of the Hungarian government in the context of all deaths, I find it outrageous that it is, however, that you have turned a chauvide, abused human emotions, human fates, and wanted to make political capital out of them. And then it's not about apologizing to Parliament, so we don't have to, it's okay, politics isn't that kind of genre, but the fact that it attacks us in person, I'm sorry to use such expressions, I'm holding back, Mr. President, and we're asking for it. So you're sitting on the horse very backwards, Deputy Group Leader. Since I've been given the floor and my time frame is still a little longer, although I know we'll continue our conversation afterwards, I'd like to sort a few professional things out. I understand that the opposition damage control narrative is about that, of course, there are several elements that contradict each other logically and legally, but there is a narrative that we could have taken all the measures without the permission granted by the Coronary Virus Act, within the framework of the emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that this is not the case, and that is simply not true. We have our own calculation, of course it's a subjective calculation, it's not that easy to think about from a constitutional point of view, but I think we're not wrong in terms of scale, if we said that if we had used the permission of the disaster protection law and that law hadn't been passed, we wouldn't have been able to take three quarters of the measures. Among these, there would have been key measures such as a moratorium on payment, an extension of various childcare, family support benefits, public burdens, free parking, validity of documents, extension of civil and criminal proceedings. We couldn't have done this quickly, without delay. Undoubtedly, if we had met here and had been sitting in Parliament for weeks under ordinary legislation, we would have been able to do so, but it would have cost us human life. So I would like to remove this misunderstanding once and for all. This kind of authorisation was key to the fight against the virus. The other part is that this is exactly what we are talking about, that the authorisation contained in the disaster management law was not enough. It is not the socialists' fault, it is not the left, it is not the government side's fault, but, after the change of regime, a different tones of legal order have developed. The whole point of this was to ensure that the state, the military and the police can't take over the country again, as is customary in a dictatorship, but, as is customary in a constitutional democracy, we separate these special legal states, law enforcement, defence and peace time from each other. That's why he was born this way, that's why the regulation looked like this. But even at the time, in the flood situation, in the red sludge disaster, it was discovered that the authorisation granted by the disaster protection law was not enough to deal with such situations. I'm just saying this in order to make it clear in the minutes that if there are any other circumstances that give rise to such a special legal status, and the current legal situation is different, I'm not talking about the coronal virus epidemic, because it's being handled in the transitional law, but if there is, don't give us, God, or any other problem, then this question will come up again. So I would like to ask the opposition representatives to put intellectual force into thinking about the types of changes that should be made in this area, and to think together, because although the Venice Commission says that as many houses as there are so many customs, in particular situations in the special legal order, each state will act differently, but it would be good if we could move forward. The last thing I don't understand is part of the opposition narrative. If you look at the bill, this bill has two substantive paragraphs. One of them is really about the Parliament asking the government to put an end to the declared emergency. This is undoubtedly the case, and it is the right thing to do, because under the Fundamental Law it can be done this way. This is indeed a declaration, but this declaration is part of the dialogue between constitutional bodies. If you have been here in the Hungarian Parliament for the last thirty years and know the literature about this, you know exactly that this is a legal institution. But anyone who says that this is why he does not vote in favour of the bill is a fundamental, fatal mistake, or I don't know, he is making a political mistake, because this law 2. I would also like to draw attention to this. So this is not just a declaration, it is a declaration, and in this Parliament's competence is clear that the 12th of 2020 on the control of the coronal virus will be repealed. Law. It's just that you guys in this room can repeal it. So to say that this is a political pamphlet, which is before us and is therefore voted or not voted, is the same category of bluff as you tried to perform for the Hungarian people in the second half of March. I suggest you don't do that, because you're going to burn it the same way you've failed in relation to the protection against the coronal virus. This legal arrangement was operational, and this legal arrangement fulfilled the expectations attached to it. We have a difficult time ahead of us, so I would like to ask once again that we try at least now, at least in the context of these legislative proposals, to give up party political battles. The government will always be a partner in this, the government has said from the very first moment that national cooperation is strictly necessary for the control of the epidemic, and it is necessary to put party political battles in the background, and we have been partners throughout this, and we will continue to be partners in this in the future. I would therefore like to thank everyone who supports this bill tomorrow. There should be as many cases as possible and as little party-political battles as possible in connection with the protection of the Crown Virus. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-15-281	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, There will be a debate on the Commission's reports on the temporary arrangements for the cessation of an emergency and on the submission of health preparedness and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/10748. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr László Salacz, rapporteur for the committee, is next. I give you the floor, please. [[19.50]]
u2020-06-15-282	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 11 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the temporary arrangements for the cessation of an emergency and the T/10748 on health preparedness. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've left months of trying people behind us. The social and economic challenges caused by the corona virus epidemic not only put huge burdens on decision-makers, but also required great patience and discipline from all citizens. Hungary has taken strict measures in time, as a result of which it is one of the few countries where the period of mass diseases did not occur, so we have managed to control the spread of the virus today. With a calm heart, we are successfully over the first stage of defense. However, the epidemiological alert must continue to be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, The fight against the spread of the coronal virus has so far posed an unprecedented challenge for the whole world, including our country, the traditional tools that have proved inadequate in its health and economic defense against the disease. The Government therefore decided to declare an emergency in accordance with Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law on 11 March 2020 in good time. However, according to the basic legislative standard, the government's emergency legislation could have remained in force for only 15 days. In order to continue the fight against the virus and to protect the health of citizens, the National Assembly shall adopt the provisions of Article XII of 2020 on the control of the coronal virus. At the same time, by adopting a law, the Government was authorised to establish and maintain its regulations containing extraordinary measures even if Parliament could not meet due to the spread of the human epidemic. Now, in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, Parliament, exercising its right under that law, withdraws the authority given to the government. However, it should be noted that, under similar circumstances, all States have the right to take exceptional measures to protect their citizens. These measures should be provisional, necessary and proportionate and should be subject to regular review. The measures laid down by the Government met these criteria without exception. In our country, Parliament was able to exercise its powers of control in relation to extraordinary measures. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we cannot go without saying about legal certainty as one of the most important cornerstones of the rule of law, because the principle of legal certainty requires that emergency and emergency government regulations not be terminated unless appropriate transitional provisions are established. The main objective of the bill before us is to ensure that, in the areas covered by emergency legislation, the Parliament regulates the legal relations or legal expectations arising in the event of an emergency, so that the regulatory transition is clear, clear and predictable, and that its change is surrounded by legal guarantees, with a view to safeguarding confidence. For example, it has been said that the proposal continues to provide for the possibility of exercising activities subject to authorisation without authorisation within a short period of time after notification. In addition, the authorisation will not be fully implemented, since the protection of the public interest in a number of cases can only be effectively protected by preventive means, so that, where appropriate, authorisation remains. This eliminates the fact that, in the case of activities which pose a potential risk to the community, the State can only act ex post. Dear Parliament, Thanks to Hungary's excellent health professionals and the sacrifice of frontline fighters, and the discipline of its citizens, he successfully passed the first stage of protection. However, the regulation of certain transitional provisions is essential to ensure that the principle of legal certainty is respected. In view of what has been said, the proposal should be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-283	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Orbán Balázs, Minister of State, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-06-15-284	Yes, thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, This is the panda of our previous conversation, T/10748. Bill No. 1 on transitional rules in the context of the removal of an emergency. Regulations in the context of a special legal order, as has been said, shall expire on that date at the time of the termination of the emergency. Because of the need for legal certainty, it is necessary for the Parliament to provide for the fate of the rules it has adopted here, which it intends to maintain permanently, which it intends to maintain on a temporary basis, which it intends to maintain in a modified form, and which it intends to release with the end of the emergency. The bill, together with the other bill during the general debate and during the Commission negotiations, I think we have discussed it in quite detail. It includes bringing a number of measures to a legal level. I would just like to highlight a few of them, which are key to society or the re-launching of the economy. One is the strengthening of economic protection and economic recovery measures at the statutory level, the maintenance of the payment moratorium by the end of December, the provision of tax and contribution reductions by the end of the month, the control of the way foreign investments are adopted in the European Union, the strengthening of the extension of social and family support measures, the conditions for facilitating access to healthcare, such as telemedicine or making the issue of medicines more flexible, the validity of public education, higher education, exit documents and the settlement of certain procedures, civil, criminal and other procedures in relation to the transitional situation. What I would like to draw attention to is the CDC. We are thinking in a way that if we have to enter the second and third stages of the protection against the coronal virus epidemic, so that the wave returns to us, we do not have to ask for special legal authority, but we can take the necessary measures in connection with the protection of life and health by the rules of epidemiological preparedness. Here, too, I would like to share with you a calculation that my colleagues have also done. I would like to put an end to the illusion or narrative that this epidemiological alert would in any way give the government as strong powers of action as the special legal order. That's just not true. According to our calculations, we could make about a third of the government regulations that were issued during an emergency in the future state of emergency. These are, in principle, not measures relating to the functioning of the economy once again, where, perhaps, I can say that most of the debates have been held, but in the vast majority of the measures relating to the protection of life and health, where even with regard to very impulsive and intensive party political battles, there may have been more agreement. I would like to thank you for the constructive positions expressed in the Commission's debate and in the general debate. Part of the political battle on the bill, I believe, was fought by the government side and the opposition side. These rules are necessary. These rules try to apply a fair, transparent and traceable exit system for everyone. [[20.00]] It is a few key, strategically significant provisions that will then remain with us. We believe that all of them are eligible from a public policy point of view. I would also like to ask, once again, for the support of all elected Members of Parliament. I would like to apologize, because I have to hand over the Government Mission to Mr István György State Secretary, but I can promise you that I will follow the later stage of the debate, and if I am needed, I will respond to this. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Balázs Orbán is leaving the meeting. Dr. István György takes over the office of State Secretary.]]
u2020-06-15-285	Thank you very much. Ten minutes left for the author. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I'll show you the time frame distribution: Fidesz 27 minutes, KDNP 13 minutes, Jobbik 9 minutes, MSZP 9 minutes, DK 7 minutes, LMP 6 minutes, Dialogue 5 minutes, Independent 4 minutes. The members' speeches will follow. Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, is the first in the list of Members who have asked for the normal word. Here.
u2020-06-15-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There are, of course, a number of eligible points in the bill. These are typically those made by the government in the period after the announcement of an emergency, either as a proposal that we ourselves proposed, or as a proposal, as a measure that we otherwise supported when taking it, publicly. Of course, the continuation or timing of these can be supported. A good question, which, at the end of the previous debate, Mr Secretary of State in a slightly different style, I think he said in a forward-looking style that perhaps it should be considered that the special legal provisions of the Fundamental Law do not require revision, or just how much this bill, which is currently before Parliament, is thought out, or how far it is not in this respect. Or why the health crisis could not be brought into Parliament three months ago and then voted in favour, since it is now claimed that this will be enough for the next period. Together with all this, I think that we believe that copying the general authorisation provision of the Fundamental Law into the Disaster Protection Act and saying that, from now on, the government, with the power of regulation, can deviate from any law, is neither elegant nor a good solution. Once again, I would like to remind everyone that even in a state of emergency, that is, even in the case of war, the Defense Act contains a detailed list of the extraordinary assets of the government. If a hundred-page bill has been passed, there have been several of these in recent times, they may have been able to exert themselves a little bit and have worked out in detail. But even this could be a matter of debate. There can be no discussion, which I also said in my speech as a keynote speaker. This, in turn, depends on whether the slave law 2.0 or 3.0 is a regulation that we consider to be legally binding, and the proposal on the full evisceration of Hungarian workers, which means the introduction of a working time frame and the binding of a ministerial individual decision. This is the proposal, I would also like to remind my fellow members of the Government, where the six trade union confederations in Hungary are also remarking together the open letter condemning this and turning to all Members, pro-government, I think, in particular, that while this proposal is part of this proposal, please do not vote in favour of this bill, and do not throw away your fellow countrymen as cons to employers, especially foreign employers. This proposal has not been taken out of the text of the bill. We have tabled an amendment, and you would have had the opportunity. Therefore, as a left-wing party, of course, as long as the union has such a request, I think that this law cannot be voted in favour. In fact, I could say that with some good feeling or insight or any responsibility towards their own constituents, I would ask that these lines be removed from the law by tomorrow, and then there would be a very different approach. But I don't want to chase illusions, so as long as this is part of the bill, we can't vote for that. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-15-287	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, please.
u2020-06-15-288	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will also comment briefly on this debate because I think that we have spent quite a lot of time discussing this in detail here last week. At the same time, Mr Secretary, allow me to make one question. Here we have had some legal debate in the recent bill on how much political declaration this is and how much it is not. That T-10747. This bill is called the end of the emergency. And we know that the emergency is declared by the government, and the government can eliminate it. In that bill we just discussed, we don't even see a date when the Parliament asks the government to abolish it. Mr. Secretary, do you have an exact date? On 20 June, I believe, Madam Attorney General, on this point, the government will decide to put an end to this emergency. Is Vane on time? I think that a lot of people in the country would like to know when the government will decide, and then it should be quite clear that the Parliament is actually doing nothing but asking the government to withdraw the emergency at an appropriate time. That is what my fellow Member has referred to, I think, in this debate. My fellow Member has also said that there are a lot of elements that can be supported and supported, but there are indeed some objections, on the one hand, the most important problem with this is the shameful part of the proposal that provides full service to workers, which is why this bill cannot be supported and has a lot of other elements that are at least questionable. We had a very detailed discussion on these. However, I would like to refer again to the fact that this situation is indeed special. So we have not yet faced a challenge of this kind, and we cannot determine exactly how deep and how outrun this economic crisis is going to be. Indeed, there is a huge responsibility now essentially for the government, but for all of us, how we use available resources to prepare the country for these effects and to take into account the fundamental changes that would require a different economic policy. In this regard, we can say that the government has taken a number of measures which, we can say, can be called harmful and must also be called harmful. Here, I really do not want to list the austerity measures that will actually cost jobs, so the austerity measures affecting local governments, but to my knowledge, the government is withdrawing about HUF 15 billion from universities, there is no reasonable explanation for that. In particular, many people will be dismissed because of these measures, and if we look at the fact that these funds have been grouped into projects such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, I think that this cannot be justified in any way. However, we may also mention other measures on which we have just had a longer debate: the virtually death sentence of 34 railway sidelines, which is also not justified. So, overall, I can say that unfortunately that kind of change of attitude does not appear in the government's thinking, and this is basically the best readout of the budget, next year's budget, which would be needed to prepare the country for this situation, and indeed to create a self-sufficient economy that can withstand such a crisis much better. As regards the bill, I can say that, despite the fact that it contains many important and eligible measures, because of these measures, and in particular because of the proposals to limit workers' rights, we will not be able to support this in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-289	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-06-15-290	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that we have obviously argued a lot about these two laws, and in the general debate this was another joint general debate. We were just discussing the termination of the emergency and the withdrawal of the Crown Virus Act, and now the epidemiological preparedness and the transitional provisions necessary to remain in force after the end of the emergency. I think that, if I understand my fellow opposition Members correctly, they can support most of the measures that remain in force, and this also indicates that the government has taken timely and good measures with the mandate given to it by the Parliament. After all, speed was the most important aspect of making good decisions and making them quickly and in time. Over the last few weeks, you have heard many comparisons about when some European countries have made border closure, whether to issue an emergency or to switch schools to digital mode, or to take other measures. [[20.10]] From these series of data, we could always conclude that the Hungarian government took these measures in time, often well ahead of the European average. It is partly due to this that we managed to flatten the epidemic curve, and we are past the first stage. At the same time, we also talked more in the Welfare Committee, arguing about the epidemiological preparedness. I think that in the current situation, when the number of infected people and the number of dead is still increasing in some countries, a lot of epidemiological experts say that this virus stays with us, that we need to prepare for a second wave in autumn and winter, which we do not know whether it will be milder or stronger than the first, we do not know when it will be greeted, there are a lot of uncertainties, as there were many uncertainties in March, as we are facing an unknown enemy, I think that during a period of such uncertain factors it is very important to have an epidemiological preparedness, to keep the operational tribe running, to monitor the situation continuously, to have data sets, to have information that shows that vulnerable places are primarily closed communities, elderly homes, hospitals, to be able to watch the operational tribe and to make decisions accordingly, and to see how the other countries develop into the epidemic curve. For this reason, I think that epidemiological preparedness is a sensible and very important thing, and we must live with it in the next period. As long as there is no vaccine, and until society is vaccinated, this epidemiological alert must be maintained. We're obviously hoping for the best, and we're preparing for the worst, that we don't have to face the burden that we've had in the past, but there's no guarantee of that. I think that the epidemiological preparedness is justified, and we are therefore asking everyone to extend the introduction of the epidemiological preparedness and the transitional effect of the measures taken in the event of an emergency tomorrow. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-291	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr István György, State Secretary, if he would like to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-15-292	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There was a question on the part of the Member when, on the basis of the mandate, the Government intends to decide on the removal of a special emergency in the legal order. This, of course, depends, among other things, on Parliament voting in favour of this law tomorrow. If, in all likelihood, this is going to happen, I am sorry that opposition representatives, although they would support it in a number of its elements, have stated for certain reasons that they will not support the bill, the decision will be taken by the government, as far as I know, by this week. Finally, I would like to thank everyone who is in this emergency, health workers, epidemiological experts, colleagues in the social field, everyone, especially those who worked in the front line, paramedics, hospital workers, nurses, doctors and, of course, all civilians who felt obliged to help those in need in this situation. I also thank Members for their support so far, and I ask all Members of this House to sleep on their decisions and to vote in favour of the law tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-293	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Special Economic Zone and the amendment of certain related laws and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/10527. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Mr László Salacz, rapporteur for the committee, is next. You have the floor, please.
u2020-06-15-294	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 11 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10527 on the Special Economic Zone and the amendment of certain related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 22 votes in favour, 3 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to promote the development of areas of major economic importance in Hungary, to preserve jobs and create new jobs, by creating separate areas that create favourable conditions for the continuation of economic activities. The world's going through some extreme times, including our country. In these trying months, which impose enormous burdens not only on decision-makers but also on citizens, the government's primary objective is to protect jobs and create new jobs, which can be read among the main objectives of the bill. The bill allows for the creation of special economic zones, which make a major contribution to the goals of creating and preserving jobs that I have already mentioned. The proposal also facilitates the rapid implementation of major investments in the national economy by creating a specific regulatory environment and ensuring the attractiveness and development of the economic area and the creation of infrastructure conditions. Dear Parliament, The bill contributes to the development of economic areas, improving their infrastructure conditions, making these economic areas attractive to both domestic and foreign investors creating hundreds or even thousands of jobs. In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill before us serves a forward-looking purpose. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-15-295	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr István György, State Secretary, if you would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-06-15-296	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The general debate on the draft legislation on the special economic zone and the amendment of certain related laws on the table took place on 20 May 2020 by the Economic Committee 2020. A detailed discussion held on 27 October V was followed. On 11 June 2020, the Legislative Committee continued the work started by the designated committee and, during its negotiations, adopted an amendment containing most of the codification, grammar and technical clarifications, with a substantive amendment being incorporated to clarify and clarify its intention not to designate a special economic zone in the capital and the cities with county rights, in order to avoid political disputes. If Parliament votes in favour of the bill, a law will be adopted that is in line with the dynamics of the large investments and capacity expansions of recent years, as it will provide an opportunity to maintain the country's growth rate, improve its ability to attract capital, and effectively support its growing trend in investment since 2011. The total value of investments in the national economy during left-wing governance between 2002 and 2010 amounted to approximately HUF 39 425 billion, while in the period 2011-2019 it represented HUF 56 369.7 billion and a steady upward trend. The maintenance, support and continuity of development is undoubtedly in the interest of Hungary as a whole, regardless of who belongs to which wagon camp. In the spirit of this growth, and in order to further stimulate it, he also developed the basic thesis of the government's employment policy: those who want to work can work in Hungary several times within the walls of this House. [[20.20]] There is no doubt that this is what the proposal before honourable Members is best for. In addition, if the proposal is adopted, it provides an opportunity to mitigate the effects of the large investments already mentioned at territorial level, with the existence of an impact assessment and an economic analysis, since, in the case of the establishment of a special economic zone, the county municipality has the possibility to use the already mentioned additional resources in a targeted way under a regulation to support developments and operations in the area, in particular in the municipalities affected by the investment. The legal system would pay old debt by adopting the proposal, since in the future the taxes resulting from investments exceeding HUF 5 billion will focus on the area instead of the exclusive share of the settlements so far, thus helping to increase the share of other small settlements, increasing the room for manoeuvre of local communities. It has already been said, but it cannot be repeated enough that the amendment does not affect the usual system of local and central taxes, the State does not deduct tax revenue from the municipalities. It is also important to point out that, according to the proposal, there must be strict, defined conditions for an area to be a special economic zone. Therefore, there is no way we can talk about automation. In the future, the government may, by means of a regulation, declare the location of new investments and enlargements to be a special economic zone, which is also of major importance for the national economy. As a guarantee rule, the investment must have a total cost of at least HUF 5 billion, have economic significance to a significant part of the county's territory, and it is intended to avoid a mass loss of jobs or create new jobs. According to what has been said, the bill therefore allows for the establishment of specific economic zones under transparent and strict framework rules that can effectively serve the interests of the Hungarian national economy and the Hungarian people, allowing for a more efficient distribution of tax revenues from large investments, as well as for a fairer development of domestic small areas, thereby increasing the strength of the population and supporting the continuous development of the environment of those living here. Dear House, Our country has been able to produce outstanding results in Hungary's construction and expansion in recent years. As I have already said, the proposal before us will help further work on country building, with the priority of supporting local communities, with which the government is fully committed. In the spirit of this intention, I call on the Honourable Parliament to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-15-297	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I announce the timeframes: Fidesz 27 minutes, KDNP 13, Jobbik 9 minutes, MSZP 9, DK 7 minutes, LMP 6, Dialogue 5 minutes, independent 4 minutes. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. There will now be a series of speeches by Members. First, the LMP's group leader, László Lóránt Keresztes, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-06-15-298	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to this proposal, I think that there will not be much agreement between the factions in conflict. The reality of this proposal, the reality of what Mr Secretary of State has spoken about, has been demonstrated by Minister János Süli to the country-world. Minister János Süli said, almost at the same time as the general debate on this bill, on an interview question, what this bill was really about when he was asked about Paks II. In connection with such a decision, you will have a special economic zone in Paks. The Minister said that there was no need for it, because the decision-making was politically correct; it was a pro-government city administration. So it's nothing but manual control to take over investments that you like in this respect. Moreover, the Paks example is also good in such a way that the Secretary of State has also spoken about it, and even the Secretary of State Orbán in the general debate, that this proposal is also important to try to remedy the territorial differences in order to make access to taxes more equitable. But the example of Paks, honourable Member, I think that if we had to give an example in the country, where there are really great disproportions, that is just the example of Paks, because in a small town one of the biggest, most important investments in the country, and even Paks II, the biggest investment in the country is created by far. And we know that Tolna County is a very difficult, poor area. If we consider Tamási's problems now, it is practically the same constituency where there is no access to the basic infrastructure, then it would be justified here that Tolna County should take part in this. I would add that Paks II. Its economic performance also distorts the data of the entire South-Transdanubian region, GDP, upwards. This, therefore, shows that this argument is completely untrue. But the problem is, they're not really going to be able to achieve that goal. If we are still so good faith that you truly have the purpose of this bill to support and support these important investments, then you will not be able to achieve that either. It is perfectly logical that if there is a settlement, and a settlement is prepared to receive an investment, use a property for this purpose, publicize it, build roads, create infrastructure, and invest with it. And compared to that, there's a government decision, then a government decision to take it, highlight it, and give the rights in every way to the county government with a fidesz majority everywhere. This is both unconstitutional and, on the other hand, counterintuiting the municipalities to create such investments, and to create such areas, such industrialised areas, for such investments at all, let us say. This is totally unacceptable. I would also like to respond to what Mr Secretary of State has just said, for the sake of the protocol, that there is no shift in taxes in relation to the Centre and local taxes. Indeed, only he takes the local tax away from the local municipal government and gives it to the county municipality. In this respect, there is movement and there is redeployment. And there was indeed an important amendment proposal. In the general debate, I also asked Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, which was not specifically included in the bill, whether or not he was referring to cities with county rights. This is eligible, and we also supported the amendment in the Legislative Committee to prevent this from happening at least in the area of county-righted cities and in the area of Budapest. However, this still does not solve this problem, since there is an agglomeration, there is an agglomeration around a county-righted city, and, let's say, an investment is created in a small settlement right next to the administrative border of the county-righted city, which is not independent of the county-righted city. So both infrastructure, construction of public works, services such as the provision of public transport are also the responsibility of the big city. Because obviously there is a lot of commuting traffic in a big city, both for students and for workers, and the social transport of the entire region needs to be managed by that city. In this respect, cities with county rights may be disadvantaged, and decisions are made in such a way that the county authorities will have the power to do so, and in the election of county municipalities the citizens of cities with county rights will not be able to vote. In this respect, therefore, this proposal does not hold up. But overall, we will not be able to support it because it is contrary to economic interests. I do not want to multiply the word for a long time, but I must respond to the words of the Secretary of State that, in fact, at the level of words, they always say how important it is to improve the economy, create jobs, and, as the Secretary of State has explained here, such a government decision must be supported by economic calculations and impact assessments. I have asked many times, Congressman Nacsa, the question is that if you look at it this year and next year, you will spend 200 billion forints on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Now, where are the impact assessments, where are the economic calculations? If our job is really to create jobs, out of this 200 billion forints, your calculations show that 175,000 new jobs could be created. Why spend it on this completely inexplicable project? This is what discredits you with your comments and suggestions on economic development. So, overall, I can say that this proposal will not serve the purpose, which, by the way, would be extremely important for us to develop the economy and help investment, which makes local authorities counterintuitive, not to mention that I believe that this whole bill in this form is unconstitutional. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-06-15-299	Thank you. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik, please. [[20.30]]
u2020-06-15-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have already explained our concerns about this bill in detail in the general debate. In recent times, and especially since 13 October, you have launched a campaign against the municipalities, which is one of the eloquent proofs of this. However, there have been a few sentences I'd like to respond to. By the way, Mr Kereszt has already mentioned these things, that you are not withdrawing funds from the municipalities. Well, what if it wasn't a withdrawal when the tax revenue generated locally was handed over to the wholly pro-government county councils and county councils, so that they could decide which good settlement they were going to make those improvements for? ! Indeed, there will be a conflict of interest between the municipalities here, which will cause serious problems later on. I would like to respond to one more important point: you mentioned that until the present amendment was tabled, it was not going to apply to cities with county rights. After all, they admitted that it wasn't in the original, so they had to put it in. So it is very good that we from the opposition benches have always said that it is not in the legislation, and you have now included it as an amendment. So I think that this is already a half success, but regardless of whether this whole bill is against the entire municipal system, of course the Jobbik faction cannot do it, and we hope that this will prove to us as time goes by, because you want to force the municipalities to borrow their own incomes, their business tax revenues, and to transfer them to the county government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-15-301	Thank you. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-06-15-302	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, If you look back, honourable Members, Madam Member and Group Leader, on the report on the general debate, the special economic areas, you will see that both Mr Balázs Orbán and I have said that it does not apply to Budapest and the county seats. You didn't believe us then. [[Mrs. Potocska named Anita Kőrösi.]] But we told him he was involved, and they asked us to be more specific. We did not see that he was involved, no, but we already said that at the beginning of the general debate, Mr Secretary of State in his exposé, and I, in my speech to the lead speaker, did not apply to this, and since you asked us to clarify this further, let us highlight it in the bill, which is why this amendment was included. It is clear from this that both the Secretary of State and perhaps I are trustworthy people, what we have said is also: it does not apply. Since you have criticized this perhaps the most in this bill, the role of county-righted cities and Budapest, what I do not understand is that Mr Keresztes Group leader is now saying that it is good that we have taken it out of it or clarified it, but it is good that they do not benefit from it, if they have an investment, then that... Congressman! If there is currently an investment in the administrative area of another municipality next to a county-righted city, on its border, how does the county-righted city benefit from any tax revenue? In no way. If there is a settlement located next to the county-righted city, the county-righted city will not receive any tax income from the community transport, road development or in any other way. This is about you on the left stressing that justice is an important value and we agree on that, but now that there is a bill that aims to make this distribution system a little more just. After all, in recent years you have seen a settlement in your country, during campaigns and during your rural journeys, you have experienced a situation where there is a plant in a small settlement that employs a lot more people than the population of that settlement, and a number of people from the surrounding settlements go to work every day, at the same time the settlements from which a lot of people work and create value in that plant, factory and establishment do not benefit in any way from the blessed activity of the plant. After all, the road between these two settlements will not be repaired with this money, because the money goes to the settlement, because otherwise public transport is not improved, and in any way the settlements in which people who live make a substantial contribution to the investment and operation cannot benefit from it. This system makes the problem of these settlements exactly fairer, the system now being introduced. I also understand that Mr Keresztes, Head of the Group, would like to make all the debates, the debate on cultural heritage protection, consumer protection and the budget a debate on a Budapest-Belgrád railway line, I understand that, this is the political mantra of the Member, and the right of his heart to do so, but that is not what this is about. This is a completely different bill, which is about a fairer and more proportionate distribution in this respect. This new special regulatory environment allows the location and the environment of investments of economic importance to a significant part of the county of national importance, with a total cost of at least HUF 5 billion, to be declared a special economic zone. I think that when a large investment affects a large part of a county, it is fair and if you want to be on the side of justice, that is why we need to support this law, so that where this investment affects it, residents can also benefit from the positive effects of it, not only in the epicenter, but also in the area of attraction. Thus, a more proportionate and fairer distribution will take place in the current system. The argument that county-righted cities do not elect county general meeting presidents and representatives is not correct. I mean, it stands up, but it's not because cities with county rights are not affected by the priority economic zone, so it's precisely people who will decide on the tax revenues in the priority economic zones who have been elected on the spot. After all the people living in the small settlements voted for the county lists, the chairman of the county assembly, and the county body elected by them together will decide what distribution form or proportion should be, so that everyone, in line with their merits, where less development has been made in recent years, and more improvements are needed, and where there is much more tax revenue, because that plant is registered there, but the surrounding settlements have not been able to develop there. This is about a more proportionate and just system. I think anyone who says otherwise isn't telling the truth. Your problem was that the role of Budapest and the cities with county rights was not clear. We said it wasn't there, but we also clarified it with a separate amendment proposal. From this point forward, I feel that a significant part of your criticism has been removed, so that you could even support it, or at least one vote could help the progress of the bill, because the principle of justice and proportionality requires that people living in this settlement and these settlements can benefit from an investment in a way that provides them with a better standard of living, better infrastructure, better roads, better transport. I think that anyone who understands why a more proportionate and fairer system is being created can support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-303	Mr. Crusade Leader, 25 seconds!
u2020-06-15-304	Thank you, Mr. President. The objective of justice is shown by the example of Paks, mentioned above, that there could have been a special economic zone. What I have really said is that it is positive that it is made more clear in the legislative text that it does not concern a county-righted city, but it is wrong, my fellow Member, that this should not be detrimental. The county-righted city performs county-level functions, very often, unfortunately, based only on local taxes paid by local residents. And in this respect, a town with county rights can agree with the small municipality next to it that the small municipality is involved in these large county functions, whether or not in maintaining community transport, this proposal is contrary to it. It could be a similar problem, like building a common road. Therefore, this could adversely affect cities with county rights even if it is not directly implemented in their administrative territory. Thank you.
u2020-06-15-305	Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, Jobbik!
u2020-06-15-306	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to a half sentence by my fellow Member Nacsa in the spirit of proportionality and justice. There was a very good measure here from 1988 to 2013, when the municipal authorities returned part of the personal income tax of the permanent residents of the municipality to the municipalities. If I understand it correctly, that is exactly what it is that if someone commutes to another settlement, then the settlement that he is commuting from should also receive an income. There was a measure for this, which was taken out in 2013. We should think about that, and perhaps it would be better to encourage local authorities to invest there. So there's another way. This special economic zone is clearly a political campaign against the municipalities, especially the opposition authorities.
u2020-06-15-307	Thank you very much. Congressman László Hajdu, DK! [[20.40]]
u2020-06-15-308	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I did not participate in the previous general debate of the Act on the Special Economic Zone, but I have now made an amendment to an announcement that does not affect the capital, because originally it looked very strongly directed towards Budapest. In the meantime, I wondered how such a gesture could be made about Budapest: yes, because the stipend law will come here shortly, perhaps the second or third law this evening. We have discussed this stipend law here once before. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Accessories!]] I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa, for the levy. And in the tax law, the fate of Budapest has already been taken care of, since no land could be removed from agriculture for any development, because the penalty fee is so serious, 80 percent or how much Parliament voted to amend the law. So, in essence, Budapest is blocked, so the agriculturally useless land within M0-son, but not even those in the agricultural zone can be sold, and it cannot be excluded from cultivation, because such a levy has to be paid. This was recently adopted by Parliament. Returning to this proposal, I think that a number of fair solutions could be envisaged. 30 years old this year the local government, 30 years ago the freely elected municipalities were formed, and the introduction of such a law on the 30th anniversary brings back subjective decision-making opportunities. This is familiar at my age: it was during the Council period. This is a Council system solution, where the county will decide which village will receive, which village will not receive money, about this will happen. Just now, Congressman Nacsa has also referred to one village's benefits and the other village's losses. That question has also been settled here in the last ten years, and here the Member has just said that word when a full withdrawal of the remaining part of personal income tax was voted by law and personal income tax has not been in place for many years. It was a fair system: who was a worker in industry, commerce, everywhere, whether it was the daily commuter, his permanent residence received personal income tax; it was a fair, proportionate distribution. The withdrawal of this was the first real blow against the settlements, I think, what has been done here in the last ten years. That was very serious. If we look at the budget that we are discussing in the government's presentation, there are two really big items: one is personal income tax and the other is VAT, which is a huge revenue to the state. Of these, the few percentages that could remain there meant survival for the settlement, because some of the people came to work, and they brought money to the settlement, and with that money there was real, real income; this revenue was taken from the small settlements. Those who go to Budapest will really pay for everything here in the capital, not in their settlement. So I think that when we want to create a law on a special economic area that is so just, there is only injustice in this. There is also injustice when I consider that the administratively affected municipality, where such an investment of over 5 billion will be made, has the right to levy taxes on its territory, according to today's constitutional interpretation. He has the right to own the land and sell it, so he can farm with it and use its benefits for goods, and he has an obligation to build the infrastructure accordingly. It is not known that two waterworks are now being built, so that in the so-called special economic zone it will operate a separate sewage treatment plant, or the small settlement where the investment will take place, willfully force this large investment to operate on his sewage treatment plant, on his waterworks, on his infrastructure. Or in parallel, two infrastructures are built: one under the control of the county, and of course the local settlement has nothing to do with it, and the other is the settlement there, and then the settlements look outside and see that there is no money for theirs. So they want to create something so unfair right now, and I have no doubt that it will be born, which, I think, is absolutely nonsense from the point of view of urban development, environmental protection, urban management; this is what we are discussing here, and what we are going to do by law. Therefore, this cannot be supported, and this is not a question of goodwill, but rather of such a nonsense idea. Thank you.
u2020-06-15-309	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-06-15-310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have not yet responded to two things, but first of all: Mr Hajdu, with all due respect, but the law on levies will not be about what you have just said, but will be about it, but there I will say, as a national, that succession and gifting between brothers should be free of charge, and that there should not be an 18 per cent tax or a levy. This is what the amendment to the law on levies is about, nothing to do with Budapest. Wherever a brother and sister lives, it means that they have nothing to do with Budapest. At the beginning, you said a gesture wasn't a gesture. We basically said that this does not affect Budapest and the cities with county rights, that is what we said in the general debate. If the SAY system was as good as what the congresswoman referred to, then how could the government's total debt by 2012-2013 have been 1300 billion forints? This day only went up to two hundred and twenty-something billion forints, so it's a fraction of what was then, so they're indebted. And that is why what Mr. Head of the Cross said is not true is that this system is good for indebting the municipalities. Well, we don't want to be indebted to the local government. We were the ones who took over and paid off all the government's debts, and we were the ones who wanted to free the municipalities from this shackle, which the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government had charged them with declining resources and increasing tasks before 2010. We do not want the municipalities to recover the debts that we have already managed to overcome with enormous work; we are talking about more than 1300 billion. It is natural that we cannot then support a measure that is indebted to the municipalities, and that is not the case. If that was the goal, why would we take over, then why wouldn't we let the municipalities drown in debt? It would have been much cheaper, Your Honour. The aim is not to reclaim this debt from the municipalities. Once we have taken over this huge, incredible amount of money, and we want it to stay at this level, where it has now been reclaimed, and they would not continue to take up the debt as required in the Gyurcsány era, but as a part of large investments, maximum, which creates jobs, which brings tax revenue, and which, by the way, serves the development of the living environment. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-311	Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Hand over three minutes of KDNP! I need three minutes from KDNP. Nacsa Lőrinc: LMP small fraction, little time! Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: There will be even bigger ones!]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr George, Secretary of State, if he would like to reflect on what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. István György's signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2020-06-15-312	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I understand the criticisms that have been said, and it is the opposition's job, after all, to say, as usual, the sentences that have been said here. Clearly, there are many viewpoints and many truths. I think that it is possible to hold meaningful debates on the funding of municipalities, but I do not necessarily consider this to be a matter of allowing me to make this remark, and precisely because of what Nacsa Lőrinc has just done, which I have written here for myself: a significant number or more within the walls of this Parliament, let me put it this way, are sitting Members whose government, which was then supported by their voters, has put the municipalities in debt of HUF 1300 billion. [[20.50]] Of course, the government has no such purpose, these are alarms and lack any basis for reality. As Lőrinc Nacsa said, it was the current government that took over the HUF 1300 billion debt, just to give the municipalities air. I think that once again, of course, we can have a debate about how unfair this is, how fair it is, obviously our views are different. We say, in any case, that this is a step towards a more proportionate and fairer distribution; indeed, a step. You may not raise the argument that has existed since 1990 on the basis of obvious reasons and, of course, this has a thousand explanations that in the case of Budapest, you do not object to the fact that business tax revenue is generated in the districts and that most of it is given to Budapest's capital. So Budapest is just an example of how to distribute and use tax revenue from an area on a solidarity basis. This special economic zone is indeed a step. And what steps will follow, we will experience this in the future. If there are ministers... all due respect to Minister János Süli, but I think that he did not say the government's position on this issue, but his own, in which he may be right, but he is not sure at all. So I think that these special economic zones are certainly fair in that regard, because Mr. Group Leader has just raised the point of how justified it would be to create this. So you also believe that there is some basis for this, at the very least the objectionable, why this is not happening at the level of Hungary, in all the counties, with this modeling, in many places, or why a completely different model of funding is not on the table of Parliament, which may even be. It's a step. I believe that it will in any case lead to a fairer distribution of tax revenue in an area. And obviously this is also a monitoring exercise, and obviously the experience of this will be screened by the government, and it will take further decisions on this matter accordingly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-313	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws to the name change of the county of Csongrád follows a debate. Government referral T/10755. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr István György, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[Dr. István György: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2020-06-15-314	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, T/10755. on the amendment of certain laws submitted by the Government in connection with the change of name of Csongrád county The primary objective of the bill is the H/1726. to make the necessary amendments to the law relating to the submission of the European Parliament and of the Council. H/1726. Proposal for a Decision No 67/1990 on the counties and the counties of the Republic of Hungary. included a proposed amendment to the parliamentary decision. According to the amendment, from 4 June 2020 Csongrád County can be called Csongrád-Csanád County. Names and localities are important for their historical message, significance and role, and therefore, in 2020 in the year of national inclusion, the entry into force of the proposal for a decision and the vote on this legislative proposal are of particular importance. The territory of today's Csongrád county consists of 4263 square kilometres, three parts of the former historical county. Annex XI is amended as follows: Szent István founded by Csongrád County and Csanád County in the 13th century. In the century it was organized in a small part of the territory of Torontol Castle County, between the current borders of Csongrád county. The territory of Csanád Vármegye is currently mostly part of Hungary and, to a lesser extent, Romania. The Trianon peace treaty dissolved the county of Torontal between Hungary, Romania and the new South Slavic state. From the 10 016 square kilometers area of the county in 1918, Romania became 2497 square kilometers, the Kingdom of Serbia-Croatian-Slovenian 7261 square kilometers, and the remaining fraction of the county became only 258 square kilometers, which was not attached as a result of the Trianon peace treaty. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] During communism, in 1950, the traditional Hungarian self-government, its historical organs, including the county system, was abolished, instead a system of council was introduced, thus also taking their identity away from the people. As a result, the former 25 counties, 14 legal cities were replaced by 19 counties and Budapest, so the administrative territory of the country consists of 19 counties and the capital. This county settlement has abolished Csanád County, one part of which Békés and the other part has been integrated in Csongrád counties. The districts of Mako, Central and Nagylaki, only part of the latter, were taken to the county of Csongrád, the former part of Torontol, and the district of Ázkovácsház and the district of Battonya were given to Békés. In view of all of this, it is enough to see only the current county division, from which it can be established that the area of the old Csanád County is now the territory of the district of Macedonia within Csongrád County. The small area of this district of Makó is the district of Kissombor, which belonged to the former Torontol County. The territorial data gives a clear answer to the question why Csongrád-Csanád and why Csongrád-Csanád-Torontal did not become the new name. As Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, said during the general debate, only a small part of the territory of the former Torontal County, almost 10 thousand square kilometers, was added in 1950 to the county of Csongrád. This statement therefore supports what has already been said. In the history of Csongrád county, the 1920 Trianon peace treaty meant brutal destruction, the mutilation of Hungarians. Since 1990 the National Assembly has decided to return the historical names of several counties, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Győr-Moson-Sopron county, for example. In the case of Csongrád and Csanád, this has not taken place in the last thirty years. However, now, with the proposal for a resolution that entered into force on the 100th anniversary of Trianon, and this bill, we have a worthy opportunity to pay our respects to the historical Csongrád and Csanád counties and, in general, the historical heritage of Hungary, the unity of the Hungarian nation and its common inseparability. In addition to the above, the positive effect of the renaming initiative is that in settlements where there is still a Csanadi identity, it strengthens the sense of belonging in communities and residents. H/1726. The present proposal for a resolution and the present bill is a symbolic message for the inhabitants of Canadian identity who, in the past century, have felt that they are living in a truncated society of a truncated country, they must live in it, they have not been able to live their national identity properly. In view of the above, I respectfully ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-315	Thank you very much, Mr. István György State Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author... or I've already been asked, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. [[21.00]] It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. The time frames can be tracked and displayed on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First of all, I give the floor to Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, Mr. Group leader, May Other be Politics.
u2020-06-15-316	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, I could not speak during the general debate, so I would like to say very briefly that we are pleased with this proposal and, of course, we will support it. In 2017, the then resolution proposal was supported by the parliamentary group of LMP, and we believe that this year, it is indeed a symbolic and well-timed, timed bill that can commemorate the unity of historical Hungary in this way. I am a little sorry that this proposal has practically come into force, but it was a few weeks late, and I think it would have been better, it would have been more practical to bring in this bill a few weeks earlier; but better later than never, we will definitely vote for it tomorrow. I certainly feel this question, I live in Baranya County, and Baranya County is also affected by the Trianon disgrace, the Baranya Triangle is lost, it is in the territory of today's Croatia, and the then county settlement affected Baranya and the neighbouring county: the district of Szigetvár was connected to Baranya from Somogy County, the county of Somogy, and Baranya became a very small county. I think that this is also understandable to us in this way, so I too live in a county on such a border, affected by the Trianon disgrace. So thank you very much to the authors, thank you very much to the János Lázár, who made this proposal back in 2017. I very much hope that Parliament will be able to vote in favour of this by consensus, because there really are not even any problems with the bill that would cause financial difficulties for the people concerned, because no, so there is no need to make a new ID, there is no such problem. I think that this is a worthy step, and once again an example of the fact that we will be happy to vote together, or perhaps by consensus, to vote on a proposal that we will do so. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-317	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that, in the remaining remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so I will close the debate and ask the rapporteur, and he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. István György: No, thank you very much.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Presentation by MEPs Lajos Kósa, Katalin Novák and MEPs Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP T/10724. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I ask you, on behalf of the authors, Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa wishes to speak. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] It indicates that at the end, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you that Minister of State Péter Banai Benő wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[Peter Benő Banai nodds.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-15-318	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I just want to confirm that the proposal as a family strengthening proposal is supported by the government. I suggest that the Honourable Parliament do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-319	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Now there are speeches from representatives, attention, looking at the display, vane who wants to talk to him. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed and I ask if you would like to speak on behalf of the Government. [[Péter Benő Banai says no.]] He doesn't wish to speak because Secretary of State Banai has the opportunity to speak, but I read it. Then I give the floor on behalf of the authors to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2020-06-15-320	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the general debate and expressed their views. There was a very serious family policy debate here with the socialist and DK fractions. I think that as a result of the family-friendly turn in 2010, we could announce and take a series of measures that would make it easier for Hungarian families, families raising children, and which will increase the budget for families to HUF 2295 billion in the next year's budget, which we are discussing, to HUF 960 billion in 2010, so that it did not reach HUF 1000 billion. It fits into this line that in 2010 our first decision was to make the straight line inheritance, or to give gifts, as promised by the Fidesz-KDNP government, free of charge, followed by other similar steps. In this series we reached the last stop, and I am honored to present this bill together with Lajos Kósa and Katalin Novák, which will also free the inheritance and the gift giving to the brothers. We believe that in such family relationships, the state has no business at all. Earlier, during the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments, KDNP fought with the MDF to abolish the death tax. I think it is also an important tool for family policy, because in a grief, the state has nothing to be hurt in our opinion, it is not right to disturb the grief of the grieving family in this way with levies, and with this step we recognise and express family solidarity, love, and respect for the will of the deceased family member, who would like to leave the work of his life to his brother. We don't think it's right or ethical for the state to collect inheritance fees. With this, we can also make the last decision among these family policy measures, which concerns the inheritance levy. I would ask my fellow Members to support this motion in tomorrow's vote and take another step together to support and help Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-15-321	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2019 LXXI on Hungary's central budget for 2020. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10735. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act in the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Committee on Budgets and the views of the minority expressed. I give the floor to Mr István Happy, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes.
u2020-06-15-322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 11 June 2020, the Committee on Budgets, acting in the role of the Legislative Committee, discussed the 2019 LXXI on Hungary's central budget for 2020. T/10735. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 8 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. The purpose of the bill submitted is: at the time of the emergency declared due to Covid-19 infection, the government created a total of three government regulations affecting the budget for this year. Fortunately, the first phase of the fight against the coronal virus has been successfully completed, the epidemiological situation is improving, and therefore the removal of the emergency situation in June has been justified; therefore, the three regulations mentioned above will be repealed, and this year's amending budget has been justified, since they are intended to be transferred. The summary amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee contains a number of clarifications, as well as codification and language positioning changes, but the most important point is that the Municipality of Budapest is also fairly involved in the control of the epidemic. It is proposed to increase the obligation to pay a solidarity contribution, which is necessary for the control of the epidemic. Despite the increase, the payment obligation of the Metropolitan Municipality is 15% lower than that of the other municipal authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, together with the summarised amendment proposal, a bill has been put on the table in this House which will ensure the stability, sustainability of the 2020 budget and will help Hungary to restart as soon as possible. That is why I consider it important, and I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for listening. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.10]]
u2020-06-15-323	Thank you very much, Congressman István Happy. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi.
u2020-06-15-324	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Budgets, we have repeatedly expressed our minority opinion on the protection of local governments. The bill for amending the budget that is now being tabled, which lies before us, amends 2020 in such a way that the solidarity contribution is practically extended to Budapest. You have said, and I will also interpret it here in this House, that this is definitely the necessary step to protect against the epidemic, which is fair, and that we have heard this more often today in relation to insinuation measures for local governments, and that instead of 85 percent so far, Budapest is now taking part in 100% of the solidarity contribution. We object to the institution of the solidarity contribution itself as opposition representatives of the Committee on Budgets. We believe that this is a step that does not serve local governments, so we also tabled an amendment to this in relation to the 2021 budget, precisely because we think that they know best at the site what to spend locally produced tax forints for; if this is to protect against the epidemic, it is to do so. I would like to note here in brackets that you have only assigned tasks to the municipalities, you have not provided resources for the control of the epidemic, they have had to do so from their own incomes, while other tax revenues have been withdrawn; let us look at either the car tax or the elimination of the collection of the tourist tax by 2020. I'd like to make one final point. It seems from your actions that you're putting the municipalities under guardianship. This is your goal, as in the debate on the previous bill in the special economic zones of the county municipality. And here we have another element, the financial caretaker's institution. We are curious to see that this 2020 budget amendment is already the beginning of this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-15-325	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if you would like to speak. [[Péter Benő Banai: At the end.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur for the designated Committee on Budgets is not here. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda and on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2020-06-15-326	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The general debate has been carried out in great detail, and I therefore do not wish to repeat the thoughts expressed there at this late hour. I agree with the Member of the Council, who has given the opposition's opinion on the measures taken by the government in relation to the municipalities. On behalf of the LMP fraction, I agree perfectly. We believe that serious damage has been done to the municipalities in recent years, because the authorities were the number one bastion of the disease control. This is also irresponsible because God does not give us a second wave of this epidemic, but even another kind of epidemic can reach Hungary. Local governments must have the means, the resources they can use to fulfil this function, so they can protect their citizens. During the first period of protection, we saw that many municipalities had to provide protective equipment for themselves, and they were not given the opportunity to do so. If such a situation develops, they will continue to play a very important role. In the beginning, talking about a fair, sober, rational decision when the Economic Protection Fund transfers HUF 80 billion to the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, I think it is impossible. This is the only measure in itself that will make the government budget virtual, this year's budget changes, but also next year's budget. Congressman Nacsa pointed out to me that this is all I can think of. I think that spending 80 billion forints this year and 123 billion forints next year on this project is inexplicable in itself, and we strongly believe that this is contrary to Hungarian national interests. The Secretary of State has not been able to put down any underlying documents on what the expectations are, what the metrics are for the project and how much jobs it will create. With such an amount, your calculations show that 175,000 jobs could be created. Compared to this, 200 billion HUF will be spent in two years, and this is not justified in any way. However, I have one question for the Secretary of State. I have already debated several rounds with Mr Secretary of State Bódis on the withdrawal of universities. At that time, he mentioned a sum of 23 billion, and then he said that it was cut to 15 billion. But he said, Mr Secretary of State Bodis, that he will continue to fight to ensure that universities are affected by as little withdrawal as possible. I am therefore asking Minister of State Banai what the prospects are, how and to what extent these withdrawals will affect universities. And I have one more question about the utility companies. We see next year's budget, unfortunately we also see the budget for this year, and we know that there has been no delay in paying the utility tax. But we do know that utility companies are in a terrible situation. Is Vane's intention to save them from bankruptcy and to provide immediate assistance to utility companies to ensure their continued operation is the most important public service, in order to ensure the supply of drinking water? Thank you very much in advance for answering these questions. Thank you.
u2020-06-15-327	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, DK.
u2020-06-15-328	Thank you. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Mr State Secretary, you already know my opinion and the opinion of our group, but I would like to come up with some details of this in the detailed debate, of course within my time frame. I think that what Mr Keresztes mentioned before me could also be said to waste management companies, namely that the city is drowning in garbage, waste, because this institution called kukaholding simply does not pass on the money paid by the population to the service provider. Today we are writing the sixth month of the year, and, as far as I know, I do not have any more information yet, because I may not have been referred to the capital today, even though it is billions of forints, which have not yet been transferred. How is it possible in such a budget system that a government office doesn't transfer the money it collects, but keeps it with it? We don't know what he's doing with it, but he's keeping it with him. It's billions of dollars. The capital now has a payment obligation of around HUF 10 billion, so the Metropolitan Public Space Maintenance Company is in bankruptcy. But what has been said is also true of the other utilities. The disadvantage of centralization is that the centralizer also takes responsibility for the fact that there will be malfunctions. The other thing I would like to say is that a solidarity contribution should also be introduced as a result of centralisation. We've been paying solidarity contributions for the fourth or fifth year, and it's always going up the stairs. In my constituency, 2020 is close to 600 million. It was said that the municipalities would not be charged with this in the 2021 budget and would even give 16,6 percent more to the municipalities. Yeah, but as much as you get back, they're at minus 2 or 3 percent, and then I haven't even considered inflation. So technically, he didn't give, he took. With the solidarity contribution, it is a ruse in this budget, and you know it, Mr Secretary of State, that as long as this fee has been collected on the basis of tax power, tax or whatever we call it, since it is the government of tax reductions, we will give it as a donation and not as a tax, we must give it as a donation so that the Klebelsberg Kunó Institution Provider can support the schools that have been taken from the municipalities. [[21.20]] 'Cause it turns out we can nationalise, take away school assets without compensation from the municipalities, we know that, but we forgot how the operation works, and now we're paying for it. In the end, not only did they take it, but we pay it to make it work. The tax power has only been included in 178 municipalities so far, but now this budget will bring it down to 22 thousand forints per person. This means that about 600 municipalities, according to my calculations, or 500 will in the future be highlighted in tax power. So when we talk about 160 billion forints, that the solidarity tax will be 160 billion in next year's budget, it will not be paid only by this 178 municipalities, but by another 350 or 300. They won't tell us how much it is, because we can't know the numbers, because we didn't have a closing account, we're negotiating a budget without a closing account. Then we would see how many municipalities, from the 3173 municipalities, have become such taxpayers, who pay such donations to the Hungarian state. The other very serious problem, I think, is that while we say that in every newspaper, I read this, that hundreds of twenty-something billion, 122 billion more were given to the municipalities, 16.6.0%, it is actually a communication money, because, in fact, less. And if we say that some people pay three or four times more, it is because we will pay four times more solidarity contributions, because we do not know how many municipalities are, as far as the tax power ratio of HUF 22,000 per person has expanded. That was up to 10,000, and I think it was 35,000, if I remember correctly, the per capita, but now it's going to fall into a lot more municipalities, so we don't know our average. For us, in my constituency, in Újpest, about next year is that the 2021 budget costs 1.8 billion, the XV. a district government of 1.2 billion. In essence, both districts, including the capital and almost all districts of the capital, pay more than the state's norm than the state's so-called task funding to maintain the institutions. This budget is trying to fool us. We know so much about the budget that settlements can't be taken out in this way. We understand that the public debt has increased by 800 billion, that the budget is under enormous public debt pressure, but the fact that everything is paid by the municipalities is unbelievable, it cannot be supported in this way. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-329	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy, Fidesz.
u2020-06-15-330	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to note that I am the rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. You just said there was no performer here, but it was me. That's not why I'm here. I'd like to comment as a Fidesz congressman. Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to tell László Hajdu that he should not be angry, that you were in the local government a lot during the Gyurcsány, Bajnai government, I suppose, and you saw things then. The 1,300 billion forints of debt, which was collected by the municipalities at the time, was nothing! I was the mayor of a small settlement, and as mayor of a small settlement, I experienced what it means to not finance the municipalities. We got 40 percent for education, for example, and so on. I think that we have introduced the solidarity tax and are trying to help smaller self-governments who otherwise do not have a major industry that pays such a big tax, that is a good thing. Another question, and I would respond to Mrs Potocska, is that my three municipalities, which pay solidarity taxes Martfű, Sayol and Képpo, would have known that Budapest would have paid much less in proportion and percentage, they would have been very upset, because it is not entirely fair that a 600-person settlement would pay an iks percentage, and a Budapest capital and a smaller percentage. Why? I don't think that's fair. It's only fair that everyone pays the same amount in the register, and it's fairly fair. I am sorry that my fellow Member, Mr Keresztes, has gone out, but now I just want to say that he keeps coming by the Budapest-Belgrád railway and how much jobs could have been created with that money. Excuse me, but during that period, during the years that this railway is being built, it will provide thousands of people with a job, thousands of people with a livelihood, not to mention the economic benefits of this railway and, by the way, the construction. So you should think about it, I think. So I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal, and I can continue to propose it, because this proposal is for the benefit of all the municipalities and the Hungarian budget. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-331	Thank you, Congressman István Happy. I ask that in the remaining timeframes, someone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-06-15-332	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal to amend the central budget for 2020 before this House is intended to provide, if necessary, the necessary resources for the control of the epidemic and, in addition, one of the most important tasks, the protection of the economy, throughout 2020, with budgetary instruments. To this end, if the Parliament adopts the motion, the Fund for Disease Control will continue to live, the Fund for Economic Protection will continue to live, and the Government's decision will increase its resources and, if we receive additional resources from the European Union, a special fund will be used to receive them, a special fund for revenue accounting, the basis for the support of the protection against the epidemic in the European Union. In addition to the survival of the three funds, it is also proposed to provide an increased public guarantee framework for business loans. I believe that most of the measures in the debate that we have just heard have not been criticised, and I thank the honourable Members. As far as the contentious parts are concerned, it is now mentioned that the municipalities must contribute to the cost of defence or not. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the bulk of the costs of combating the epidemic are not only nominally, but also as a percentage of the expenditure and revenue of the central budget, compared with, for example, the percentage of expenditure and revenue of the municipal sub-scheme, most of which is borne by the central budget. I repeat, not only nominally, but in all comparisons, the bulk of the burden is borne by the central budget. I think this is right, but everyone in the current defence should also be financially involved in defence, which is why the government has proposed that this year's income from the tax on motor vehicles should be used to protect against the epidemic. Also, as MEP István Happy said, the motion in its final form is also about the fact that the capital city of Budapest will put the surplus of its solidarity contribution into the service of the protection against the epidemic. I would like to make it clear here that the proposal before you is not about the obligation to pay, so to say, 100 per cent, for other municipalities, in terms of the solidarity contribution, but that the discount for the capital would remain, and this year only 85 per cent of the amount payable according to the formula should be paid. I know that there are many people questioning the word "suffering," because more must be paid than has been known to date, but I would remind the Honourable Parliament that there are a total of 745 municipalities whose financial position is affected by some sort of inclusion in the budget either on the side of state aid or in the system of solidarity contributions. [[21.30]] The part to be paid by the 745 municipalities or the part determining the reduction of central budget support is governed by a formula. Of the 745 municipalities, there is only one municipality, which is not to be fulfilled according to the formula, and Budapest is the capital city, whose contribution is to be paid only 85 percent, and this additional solidarity contribution is intended to protect itself from the epidemic this year. I think we all know that the protection against the epidemic, if any, is particularly important in Budapest, because the proportion of diseases is naturally the highest because of population density and other known data. I would also like to say that this solidarity contribution and the inclusion of tax power in budgetary support have been in place since 2013 and .17. This system has nothing to do with the 2019 municipal elections. I am saying this because, in the debate, whether here in plenary or at committee meetings, this accusation has been made, if you will. I don't think the government wants to put the municipalities under guardianship. The government is asking for a partnership with the municipalities. No one is happy if his pre-calculated income is not realised, no one is happy to have additional expenditure. I ask all of you to understand that the current situation requires efforts from all of us both to protect health and to restart the economy. As regards further comments, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, raised the funding of universities. I can also tell the Head of the Group that, in order to protect against the epidemic and to protect the economy, the government has transferred funds from the organisations under its control to the known defence, health and economic protection purposes. As part of this, universities have also carried out a transfer of investment expenditure in rem and institution for economic protection and investment purposes. I would like to emphasise that expenditure of a personal nature has not been affected. This is important, since no one's job or salary has been compromised, but the government has the opportunity to transfer to specific investments, or to university investment, job-saving investments, so that the normal functioning of universities and normal job provision have not been affected by the measures this year. Undoubtedly, we also asked universities for savings measures. But if, again, a university invests in job creation, the government can transfer funds with a public government decision. Although the motion before you does not affect water utility companies or waste management, both Mr Group Leader and Mr László Hajdu asked, so let me say that as far as water utility companies are concerned, it is important to see that a large part of the companies are predominantly owned by local governments. I think that it is also a fundamental task of local authorities to provide resources for investments. Of course, I know that the fight against the epidemic and the current economic situation bring the municipalities into a new financial situation. So this can also contribute to the need for local authorities to restructure their resources, but we cannot avoid the responsibility of the owners on a systemic basis. This is one of the things I would like to emphasise to Mr Group leader's point. The second thing is that water utility companies have received funds from a number of sources of support, I could mention the EU's COHEP programme and their investments. It is expected that some of the EU's resources for 2021-27 could, for example, be used for investments by water utility companies. As far as the waste management system is concerned, what I would like to say first of all is that after the reduction of the costs, residents will have to pay a low price for garbage shipments. The centrally managed waste management company cannot fully finance its expenditure revenue from its population, so the central budget adds to this activity. So when we are talking about waste management, I repeat, I would like to say that there are reduced prices and that the central budget provides support for the operation of waste management. The State-owned entity NHKV is related to waste suppliers, there is a contractual relationship everywhere, the public body will, of course, act in accordance with its contractual obligations and will pay the aid to the service providers. The important thing is that waste disposal at reduced prices was ensured, and I trust that this will continue to be the case in the future. In view of all of this, I think that the bill before you is essential in order to dampen the negative effects of economic processes, it is essential in order to preserve as many jobs as possible and to create as many jobs as possible. If we can be successful in this respect, I trust that with economic growth from 2021, the positions of the central budget and local authorities can be improved. On this basis, I propose to support the motion tabled by the Government and proposed to be amended by the Legislative Committee. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-15-333	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, with the title of our city, Pécs 17. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-334	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, I would like to talk about a very important problem and a sad development regarding my city, Pécs, and this problem system also affects Baranya County. We know very well that the cities of Baranya and Pécs have been the losers of the past decades in every way. So it was a continuous economic decline, an economic decline. This can be said for any government cycle, similarly in terms of the colour of the city's leadership. Whether Pécs had left-liberal or right-wing city leadership, this tear continued. So it can be said that the city of Pécs and the county of Baranya has been in an economic crisis for a long time, and under such circumstances, the brutal government restrictions that we have already discussed have been in place. Basically, we cannot accept the basics of government economic protection measures, given that a huge amount of HUF 83 billion has been transferred from the Economic Protection Fund to the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which has not been supported in any way. It is therefore possible and necessary to justify the restrictions which fundamentally affect and put local authorities in a serious position. Let's look at these items in Pécs. We have just had a debate about the fact that the university sphere, not only the local governments, but also the universities, has been subjected to austerity measures, and unfortunately, the University of Pécs stands out, from which the government wants to withdraw nearly two billion forints. Obviously, this is a major blow to the university directly, but it will be seen in the city of Pecs, and it will even cause very serious economic damage to the entire county. It is quite clear that this withdrawal, this brutal austerity, cannot be managed by the University of Pécs, so unfortunately serious redundancies and other measures can be expected. It is also quite clear that in this form the university will not be able to go on like this. So this will have a negative impact not only for this year, but also for the following long-term years, for the next period. The Secretary of State insisted in the debate that there would be no redundancies, but it is quite clear that if concrete university investments were to be missed, it would be impossible to create new jobs. Therefore, the negative economic effects will certainly take place. The fact that money is being taken away from the university for investment is completely unfounded and unfounded. I think that a university, especially such a university with an extremely important regional role, such as the University of Pécs, can decide precisely whether investment is necessary or not, and therefore these measures are extremely harmful. [[21.40]] The car tax withdrawal affects Pécs with nearly half a billion items, and it is quite clear that this already indebted city carrying more than 20 billion in debt will not be able to manage it in any way. But this problem can be said for the entire county. We know precisely from the various advocacy alliances that two thirds of small settlements will not be able to manage this. The situation of the water utilities has arisen. Only in the city of Pécs, a 15-year period of HUF 20 billion is missing from basic reconstruction and replacement work. It is quite clear that there are no such tenders where this could be replaced. It will also tragically affect the city that the government withdraws from the financing of local public transport and entrusts this to the city to solve it. It is quite clear what effect this will have, and it will basically reduce the frequency of the flights with the environmental and accident-enhancing effects of this. It's hard to think about the effects of this. This is completely unacceptable. Also with a technically unfounded, unsubstantiated decision, the government sentenced two railway lines in Baranya County to death, Komló-Godisa and Villány-Mohács railway lines. These are also decisions that will fundamentally affect the already difficult area, and they will definitely have a bad impact, which is extremely sad. I believe that this is not a party political issue; it is the duty of every Member of Parliament living and working in Baranya County and Pécs to take action against these decisions. I have contacted all Members in a letter and I am pleased that all opposition representatives in the county, who live and work in the county, have indicated their willingness to act together on these issues in a few days' time. At the same time, the pro-government representatives did not even praise me for an answer. So Péter Hoppál, Erik Bánki, János Harghitai and Csaba Nagy do not feel it is important to stand up for the population of their constituency, to stand up for their county, and to draw the government's attention to the fact that these serious austerity measures will not be known to the city of Pécs, the University of Pécs or Baranya County, and there will be unforeseen consequences. This is quite sad that they once again considered party political loyalty fundamental, did not stand up for the people, and forgot that they received their mandate not from Viktor Orbán, not from Fidesz or KDNP, but from the people living there in Pécs and Baranya. At the same time, as opposition representatives, we will do everything we can to ensure that these outrageous austerity measures are withdrawn by the government. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-06-15-335	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. László Hajdu, a representative of DK, applied for a post-municipal speech with the title of "Safe Government," "Removed Municipalities." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-336	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I thought that after the agenda, I would like to speak because the budget is back on the agenda, but the excitement is incredible in the municipalities. I have two municipalities in my constituency. We have received a letter from three Members of Parliament here, Mr Zsigmond of the Government Party, and László Varju and I from the opposition side from the two municipalities to try to help, because we are talking about very serious numbers, which we have discussed in the previous discussions, but I would like to present now in a different approach, as local representatives of the local government can see. I think my comment would be limited to three points. One point above all is that this budget means for them to jump into the dark. So you can't really know that, and I don't think the author is aware that the year 2019 is not closed, that the year 2020 is beginning to be burdened with an epidemic, and we are already legislating on the 2021 budget without even knowing exactly how much money we have. This disturbance also goes through the municipal system, as the Hungarian government operates on a tight umbilical cord with the State Treasury. The Treasury requested that the deadline was in the days, although it was often said to the municipalities in this House that the opposition did not help, or the municipalities, the two municipalities contributed 600 million forints, the proportion of which I did not specify to myself, the proportion of the fight against the virus, that is to say, the prevention of the epidemic, by buying various tools and all that had to be paid. For example, those who had lost their jobs had to give immediate relief, and they had to be certified with an account. That's a total of 600 million forints. It should not be said that the municipalities did not help, or that the representatives who came from that district, from that constituency, from the constituency. The second, the previous debate, was about this, and my position is that this is also the budget of the looting, because under the heading of how they take money from municipalities, this is very serious. In contrast to the 122 billion-dollar grant that the Hungarian municipal government receives in this budget, if I only take the solidarity tax and the car tax, and I do not take the rest, because here it is about eight items that are withdrawn, they are smaller, but very important, which means that as much as the aid has increased in the budget, they have withdrawn at the same moment. So, actually, this is our loot. The third thing I would like to mention is that this is a bit like the flood that Madame de Pompadour said after us. This can also be seen as a flood budget, because our budget, which is 856 or 855 billion at national level, is no more than the budget of the Ministry of Interior, the budget of the Ministry of Defence, but here 3173 municipalities have to make a living, prepare their budget, provide the service in the settlement, carry out the tasks undertaken and the mandatory tasks, so this budget does not really dare to face the tasks. Our group leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is quoted a lot in this room, said that this is a budget of cowardice and weakness; I believe that it is justified on the basis of today's debate, and that is why I asked for the floor. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-337	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, asked for a few more sleeps, and we wake up to the fact that half the municipalities are ruined! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-15-338	Thank you, Mr. President. The thing is, I never thought I'd agree with Secretary of State Banai at such a late hour. What did you say a few minutes ago? The government does not wish to take the municipalities into custody, and I have to give it the utmost truth, as the budget for 2021 before us can be seen as a fact that the part affecting the municipalities is nothing more than a club in the hands of the government, an important tool for dealing with the municipalities. What are we talking about? I could give you a lot of examples about this. Allow me to give you two brief examples. One is income from local business tax. We now know very well that, from 2021 onwards, municipalities cannot use this business tax revenue for what they want, including not paying the wages of local government workers, or we can safely talk about the possibility that advertising carriers placed on real estate have also been deprived of the possibility of being taxed by the local government. But, of course, we also see that the government feels that this will not be good, that without revenue it will lead to a straight and short path for municipalities to bankruptcy, and that is why they are trying to facilitate the possibility of local government borrowing. I have to add that the opportunity that had been cancelled for municipalities in 2010 and 2011 has been closed... now the municipalities have only been able to borrow from government permission. That won't be necessary next year. A billion forints will allow any local government to go into debt and to go into debt spirals. The Orbán tactic is interesting, because it left that possibility, I could also say, the political weapon that the Minister can decide and prohibit or allow any municipality to conclude a loan contract, and that is nothing more than I said before, a very strong political weapon that can even more vulnerable and, on a political basis, put the opposition self-governments at a disadvantage. [[21.50]] I must add that this should also be handled with caution for the leaders of the pro-government settlements, as this could very easily lead to a debt spiral, otherwise these municipalities. And what exactly did the National Association of Municipal Local Governments say about the situation of the municipalities, based on a survey in May? The situation of the municipalities is lamentable. A total of 14 percent of cities and villages can operate over six months without borrowing, but almost 19 percent do not have a single penny reserve. Almost two thirds of the settlements are also facing insurmountable financial problems by taking away the car tax. And what the government is silent about is that it doesn't have 2300 other tax revenues out of 3200 municipalities in the country at all. In general, there is no business in these settlements that can pay business tax, for example, but there is no tourism industry, so I have to add that it is pleasant to say that they are not affected by the imposition of a tourist tax. And we are talking about about 900 settlements, where there is a business tax, but in these settlements, the economic downturn is likely to be so huge that these municipalities are counting on a declining income that can cut up to 70% of their operating budget. In addition, the measure that no longer has to charge the tax difference between the advance and the actual corporate performance until 20 December could cause serious operating and liquidity problems for a large number of municipalities already this year. And let's just say it's a lie, no more than weak propaganda, that the 2021 budget would give more support to the municipalities. That is so not true that the exact opposite will happen. In the 2021 budget, there is no additional funding for the operation of municipalities at all, only the Orbán government is reorganising the funds so far, and this is nothing more than an ugly misrepresentation in this form. And yes, we are going to sleep a few more, and we are going to wake up that half of the Hungarian settlements are bankrupt, and the other half are desperately struggling to stop this near bankruptcy in some way, because next year's budget, as DK has already said, is nothing more than a budget of cowardice and weakness, a suicide mission by a cowardly and weak government. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-15-339	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Mr László Hajdu: Is Dániel Z. Karpát present? Because I can't see it from here. [[László Hajdu: No.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will take place on 16 June 2020 tomorrow. I thank you for your work, and I wish you a restful good night. The meeting's closed.
