u2020-06-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 29th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó, who will be arriving later and László Varga, will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So they went again against Europe, Hungarian horsemen? You laugh at time, why it should be different than after Svatopluk: you will advance in the name of holy Asia. Flying country, Flying country, Flying country: in its most capable dreams, it wandered between two shores: from East to West, but prefer to go back. We were chased forward, we weren't allowed to look back, to see where we were going. To see that some Pharaoh owns this country, to keep the millions alive in dirty animal life. The Pharaohs wanted there to be gulags and pyramids. (...) Turuls circling the air, shooting arrows towards the sun, Hungarians preparing to attack. What grade, since the letter-teaching Italian priests? You are great, my people, you are great, or my people: you have been in constant battle with Europe for a thousand years. But you did not allow the idea to triumph on the skulls of your children, you live in the middle of Europe as a lively protest (...). Flying country began furiously towards the East again (...). I'm sure the Honourable Secretary of State doesn't understand why I've read the details of your work on the margin of the unknown Korvin code of Endre Ady. Well, that's why. That is precisely because, if they had understood, Hungary would have been placed on a course of catching-up after 2010 with a two-thirds mandate and a great deal of EU money, a course in which Hungary fits harmoniously and effectively into the international division of labour; a Hungary in which democratic institutions, the system of brakes and balances, market institutions, and where citizenship is strengthened and a broad middle class is formed. Over the past ten years, unfortunately, the opposite has happened: an illiberal state is being built, an oligarchic economy is being built, Pharaoh's stadiums are being built, there is an eastern opening, and their fist is being shaken strongly against Europe. I understand why Western orientation and catching up are unacceptable to you. I also understand why the Prime Minister said that he felt much better in the East than in the West, because in the West it is possible to ask for the maintenance of the privileges of a gentleman, the weakening of democracy, the restriction of freedom of the press and corruption, and, of course, there is no need to face the incompetence of the Hungarian economy. It's not a problem in the East, they don't want to hear about these things. The former students of the Bibó College today hardly mention the work of their name giver, especially the disfigured Hungarian figure and the dead-end Hungarian history study. Bibo condemns, among other things, the gentleman Hungary between the two world wars and makes him responsible for steering the country into a dead end, which you are now celebrating loudly and view as a role model. So, unfortunately, nothing has changed, a ferry has started angryly towards the East again. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to what has been said. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am honoured by your speech here in the early hours of the morning. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Early morning? Nine o'clock.]] I must be honest with you, what you have to say is what you really wanted to say with your speech before the agenda. [[Interventions in the lines of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]] because it is obvious and it has been revealed in our debates in Parliament that we see the last ten years in a completely different way, in a completely different way, we judge the work and activities of the Fidesz-KDNP government in two and a half cycles. We have become accustomed to the fact that you, the opposition, do not appreciate what Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy, Hungarian businesses, Hungarian governments and the Hungarian government have been able to produce in the last ten years. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Then let us try to take over in these short few minutes what the Hungarian society has achieved against your claim. First and foremost: Hungary was in an economic and social crisis in 2010. The economic crisis, its causes, has been reversed, Hungary has been put on a rising path in 2013, and it is still... [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] If you don't like it and you're upset, the numbers, the numbers of GDP growth [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] You and your fellow opposition representatives are all disproved. Hungary, with the performance of Hungarian people in it, is able to deliver significant results in terms of economic growth, so serious that it is recognised at the level of the European Union, and Hungary is one of the first in the European Union. [[Interviews in the lines of DK and Dialogue. The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, the number of unemployed people also decreased significantly, employment increased, as there was more than 10 percent unemployment, and the Fidesz-KDNP government took over governance by 12 percent in 2010, and now, we know, despite the crisis that has caused the economy, unemployment is still significantly below or around 5 percent or 4 percent. The same is the case with regard to income, since real incomes, together with pensions, have been put on a growing path where people's earnings are growing year after year, and not only nominally, so by number, but in fact, people can buy more for their income earned year after year, and for pensioners, it is a big word, because socialist-balliberal governments have not been able to safeguard the value of pensions. [[9.10]] I think that, in addition to the fact that the economic crisis has managed to move the country out of the country and put it on a rising path, the management of EU money has also been successful in using it in terms of our country. It was successful, because we managed to put it in the service of economic development and create jobs with EU funds and resources. But I mentioned the social crisis, which was true of Hungary in 2010. Here I thought, first of all, that the foreign exchange credit crisis had to bring out millions of people. It is true that this did not succeed until 2014 in one cycle, but it was successful, since we know that the European Commission's position, the position of the Hungarian courts, had to be waited, and that only then the Parliament was able to make the right decisions. Unlike your statement, Member, Hungary has been able to enter a growing, rising, hopeful career in economic and social terms over the last ten years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-4	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Krisztina Hohn, Member of the LMP Group, spoke with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-03-5	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, On the occasion of the upcoming Teacher's Day, I would like to welcome all teachers and to draw attention to a problem that affects thousands of teachers. We all know that in vocational training, along with several sectors of education, there are major changes. Recently, we also learned about the new VET law, against which a lot of teachers stood up or even quit their jobs. According to this new law, vocational training workers are excluded from their status as civil servants, which is justified by wage growth. But it seems more and more that the aim is to evacuate the civil servant pay table, and here we are thinking of the law on workers in the cultural sector, which has been submitted and adopted since then. Unfortunately, the transfer to the labour code has not been well organised, since it is increasingly feared that the change will not only improve the situation of vocational training workers, but rather reduce the situation due to legal uncertainty. The status of civil servants has so far given teachers specific protection on the issue of freedom, pay, working hours or even the Jubilee Prize. In addition, bypassing the teacher's career model, to which so much hope was attached from the government side, and its success has been emphasized for years. In addition, the conversion of vocational education and training takes place at a time of no substantive discussion, and due to the already adopted VET law, 32 thousand teachers have been disenfranchised according to the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers. The pedagogical qualification system, which is the basis for wage negotiations, also raises serious concerns about sportsmanship. You forced VET educators to participate in wage negotiations based on the rating system without any conditions. [[Dr. István Simicskó will take his place in the notary seat.]] Let us start by saying that in the emergency situation caused by a coronal virus epidemic, many teachers did not have the opportunity to participate in an adequate qualification. Teachers of public knowledge were unable to reach 66 percent of the qualification in the case of maximum performance because the application of the relevant methodology of vocational training in the system of criteria, professional experience or even professional commitment is not relevant to them. In addition, there were a lot of subjective elements and lack of unity. For example, it was not specified who would carry out the evaluation. Do you think this is real professionalism and quality assurance? I would like to use the opinion of the PDSZ to say that the evaluation system itself is against the law, since the evaluation criteria were only known at the last minute by teachers. According to the promises, VET workers can expect an average wage increase of 30 per cent, depending on the rating, more and less, but the budgetary coverage of this is not clear in the budget of the training centres. In addition, future contracts will only have to indicate basic wages, not bonuses, which may result in workers not knowing exactly how much money they will receive. I think that with the new VET law and this impossible set-up that has taken place around the rating system, the main thing they will achieve this year is that more educators can leave their careers than usual, as working conditions are becoming available to fewer and fewer people. And in my remaining time, I would like to take the opportunity to remember this one day before the 100th anniversary of the Trianon decision. We believe that a nation, although its members live in Manfa, Mezőkaszony, Zápszony, or Jánosi, where I was bound by fond memories when I was still mayor, we were able to conclude true, serious friendships and sister settlement contracts here, and we were able to camp several children in Hungary. I think that you may really understand what it means to live beyond the border when you first have such an experience, and when you meet people across the border, and there you understand what it is like to be Hungarian outside the border, and what it is like to stick to the mother country, but also to stick to the place where they live. Our common heritage and future is the Carpathian Basin, so it is important that our children pay greater attention to the fact that Hungarians live beyond the borders. I say this especially because, when I was in high school or in primary school, this was a taboo, and no one talked about it, and I, to my greatest regret, for a long time didn't know that Hungarians lived beyond the borders. Thank you very much, that's all I wanted.
u2020-06-03-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Bodó wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-03-7	Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman! I understand your thoughts this morning. Putting them in a speech is a little more interesting, but of course it is the right of every Member. You are talking about social responsibility in this situation with Trianon, with regard to training, with regard to responsibility, and I think that we should go in line on these, because that is correct. It talks about social responsibility in a situation where opposition behaviour has been quite clear over the past period: they have not supported the extension of an emergency at national level, at parliamentary level. There are many opposition authorities... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I'm sorry. I didn't interfere with what you said. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: But I'm in charge because I'm not!]] So a lot of measures at municipal level have been taken against civil servants, for whom you are now speaking, for example, I can mention the case of Ozd, where civil servants have been punished by the local administration with a reduction in salaries. So you're asking me to account for ideas that you don't support in practice. But, of course, the Hungarian people clearly see what they are doing and how they are doing, and I can really say that the social cooperation that is in place right now has its result, and in the context of the emergency, the measures that the government has taken early proved in any case that the epidemic has been contained. [[9.20]] Of course, there is a place for caution, because we have now faced something that our own age has never faced before. So there is a place for caution, but in this work we could not count on you. We need to see the measures it raises in terms of jobs and training. Well, in this situation, the government is fully committed to protecting as many jobs as possible and creating new jobs. This is obviously complex, concrete measures and concrete programmes, and they are a significant part of what we have put in the economic protection action plan. Nearly 20 percent of GDP has been redeployed, and HUF 9200 billion will be used to protect the economy, so it is quite clear that, in addition to creating new jobs, we also need to protect existing results and existing jobs. In this I can inform you that 11 140 companies have submitted applications for job protection wage support yesterday, and this meant the preservation of 145 357 people's jobs. These are specific numbers, these are not ideas, these are specific numbers. Job-protection wage support provides only three months of public funding in one sentence and helps the sectors that are in the most difficult situation. Tenders may continue to be submitted by 31 August. We have also dealt with the issue of research and development and innovation, and when you were actually talking about Hungary's lack of responsibility for training, science and commitment, I would like to point out that this is precisely what we are paying attention to in particular to those jobs, those highly qualified professionals whose work is needed in order to achieve a next momentum, when there is a real need for knowledge, innovation and inventions, which are now in the desk drawer, these are the very practical thoughts of a specialist in vocational training, and even if they are high-level engineers, when these professionals are specifically thought of by the government in terms of research and development and innovation, then I cannot really place your proposal. We've helped 13 152 engineers, researchers and IT experts with this program, 823 companies against you think it's okay, that's how it works. There is a place for job-creating support, and I can talk about a job-creating wage support programme of HUF 84 billion for 70,000, i.e. the government has taken these measures in relation to the protection, creation and use of training. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] what is necessary to enable the economy to reboot. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the pre-meeting address, Ms Ágnes Vadai, Democratic Coalition: "I am sorry." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-03-9	Dear House, You have presented your proposal to withdraw the delegation law, in which you are now being asked to rule for ever. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Again?]] Excuse me, but why should I apologize to you? It's extremely pathetic, the way you've started your campaign over the last few weeks, demanding that the whole world, minus some political spooks, apologize to yourselves. The opposition parties are called upon to do so daily, and, by the way, they send insulted letters to foreign researchers, politicians, journalists, and this is where their fine gentlemanly man of communication, Zoltán Kovács, is at the forefront of hearing, embarrassing himself for many years, which, of course, would not bother us, but also harm our country's judgment. I will sum up the content of the text: the ugly Hungarian opposition, including, of course, DK and Gyurcsány, spread at home and abroad that the Orbán delegation law itself is a violation of democracy and the rule of law, and the king's rule will last forever, but of course you do not think that is true. Now, here's the problem: 1. Someone even thought to write a letter like that. 2. You also think that your remaining few European allies are completely stupid when you suggest that they in the West have no idea about the situation in Europe. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You know the situation, but you don't...]] 3. Your wise-ass forgot to write in the letter that you now want to be authorized to live forever, or I'll put it more clearly: forged in the letter. Allow me to quote a sentence from one of these letters. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: More like a sentence!]] The apology is not only due to the elected government of Hungary, but also to the large majority of Hungarians. I'd rather not say what the Hungarian government deserves, because they are banning me from the meeting, but if they already had the nerve to involve Hungarian citizens in this pathetic and ridiculous campaign, then I will give you some examples for which you should apologize to the large majority of Hungarian citizens. First of all, apologize for testing one of the least in Europe during the epidemic. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Lies!]] Apologize to at least 400,000 Hungarians for whom they refused to help, and therefore lost their jobs, and the current offer is a net HUF 54,000 community service. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 400,000?]] or a net army option of HUF 107 thousand. Apologize to health workers, who have often saved the lives of Hungarians without adequate protective equipment, while themselves sending masks and protective equipment to grass, trees and wildflowers. Apologize to at least 16,000 Hungarians in need of care and care who have been thrown out of hospitals overnight. And make special apologies to the Hungarian families who lost their families because of your inhumane policy! Apologize also for the fact that during the crisis, only the gas mechanic, and the king's pocket were filled with him; we are talking about 600 billion forints. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yesterday was 200, now 600! It tripled in one night.]] Apologize for taking considerable resources from the local authorities, while they are now throwing the taxpayers' money away from here and beyond on their chandeous hand-licking dogs! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Every Hungarian business that receives money is a fraud?]] And apologize to the people working in the public sector, the transgenders, the underrated universities, the soldiers for the 400 hours of overtime a year, the social workers, the orphans, the disabled pensioners, the pensioners, the teachers and the students. I understand there are at least 133 brave congressmen here. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, the way I look at the pro-government benches, they're mostly Lords! Now, here's your chance to make crappy apples. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: He told Gyurcsány not to call us gentlemen!]] Instead of making pacal-making or licking birthday greetings, make apology videos. A large majority of Hungarian citizens will not forgive themselves, but at least they will start practicing the gesture. This skill you're about to learn, believe me, you're going to need it a lot in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-06-03-10	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Listening to his speech and considering that he also mentioned good manners, this is not how we will set an example of good manners. But you've touched on several topics, so allow me to answer. His speech is a fine example of left-wing policy, the essence of which is that they oppose everything coming from the government, regardless of the content of the decisions: they do not look at what is right, what is right, but only that it comes from the government, and if so, they say the opposite. The fact that we are talking about these issues here in this House is an indirect proof, if you like, in a political sense, that Hungary has handled the first stage of the epidemic well, because fortunately, the main issue is not that there will be enough ventilators, that there will be enough hospital beds, that there will be enough protective equipment; because, thanks to the discipline of the Hungarians, the excellent health professionals and early decisions, the epidemic will now subside, and our task is to keep it that way. As far as your points about the rule of law are concerned, I cannot count how many times you have buried Hungarian democracy since 2010. Let's just say if we had started a counter during the debates on the media law, it would probably have freaked out, as far as opposition charges are concerned. [[9.30]] On the other hand, it is quite simply that left-wing parties, including Jobbik, are no longer able to provide a real, meaningful alternative, which is no wonder, because there is no majority support for all-encompassing denial in Hungary. Denial, honourable Member, cannot build a future. By the way, the inability of their desires is shown by the fact that at the same time they cry out dictatorship you did here and threaten to wipe out the government in an election. You feel that these two contradict each other. It also shows that their coastal dictatorship is actually an empty political bluff, nothing more. At the time of the introduction of an emergency, you have emptied the House of Parliament, the whole world, with the government cementing its power and excluding Parliament's sittings. And it didn't bother you that all this was said in the Parliament that was sitting constantly. Now that the Parliament resolves the emergency, it is a clear rebuttal of their lies at that time. So, if you've raised this question, then, yes, there is room for apology, because you didn't vote for anything that would help you defend yourself, because you've made false claims, and because you've been constantly attacking health leaders. And even if they don't apologize, everyone will be able to conclude that the left couldn't be expected in this situation, in this crisis, and that in other crises it couldn't be expected. You know as well as I do, just because the emergency is over doesn't mean we have to maintain health alert, because the epidemic hasn't passed. With regard to the municipalities, it seems that there is a fundamental difference between us: you believe that the municipalities do not have to play a role, and we believe that the government must play a role, take the most role and responsibility, but the multinationals, the banks and, yes, the municipalities have to take responsibility. The example of Pesti Road shows the cost of not taking on this responsibility. As regards economic issues, he briefly mentioned that the government had taken early steps in this area, suspended the loan repayments, continued the tax eme... tax reductions [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Tax increase, well said!]] It didn't increase taxes. As far as the facts are concerned, employers' taxes will continue to decrease from July onwards, for everyone; decisions have been taken on employment protection and job creation; training programmes will also be launched; only the two wage support programmes will create or maintain jobs in the order of hundreds of thousands. If we had taken into account your proposals, then aid would have been strengthened by the government, it would be relief, not retained jobs. And that, we know what it means, we saw it before 2010, with more than 10 percent unemployment, 12 percent unemployment. So here's a lesson, thank you, we wouldn't accept it from you. You'd think ten years is ten years! it was enough for the left to learn from his own mistakes, but instead they are pushing the same policy; moreover, it is the same ones who have already gone down once in an economic sense. Loans, subsidies, wage cuts, cuts were able to offer this country ten years ago, and they know it now. Thank you, we wouldn't choose this path. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the past and the future. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-13	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! This speech should not be spoken today, but you, the majority of the government, have not allowed the opposition, not only my group, but no opposition group, to express its views and thoughts at the Hungarian Parliament on the 100th anniversary of Trianon. How this is compatible with national cohesion is left to you, in my opinion, not at all. We, the opposition representatives, represent Hungarian people in the same way as you, hundreds of thousands of people, and not accepting this is fundamentally offensive. For Trianon is a common pain for all Hungarians, to live anywhere in the world, here in the motherland, in the disconnected areas and everywhere else. The Trianon peace is a national strategist, but beyond emotion, beyond our emotions, we must have the strength to see other dimensions. According to historical science, it is the good peace that can fulfill its principal vocation, namely the creation and maintenance of tranquillity and peace. Over the centuries, there has been a conflict resolution mechanism in Europe, a method that has broken off with the perception and practice that the winner will take apart, eviscerate and humiliate the loser. This early modern practice put Hugo Grotius, Justus Lipsius, and his companions' thinking system into reality, so they concluded the first great peace of Losfalia closing the continent burn, and this practice was used two centuries later in the peace closing the Napoleon wars, just to think that the defeated France was not picked up, not humiliated, but integrated into the new system. Please do not think that these are empty historical reflections, the recitation of this tradition just proves that there was another way, another method that was known and accepted in Europe. The powers that won in World War I broke up with this, returning to the vae victis woe to the dictatorship of the defeated. With the peace of Trianon, honourable Parliament, as with its fellows, the most historic problem is that they were not fit to fulfill their main task, and even carried the newer, we already know, even more horrific and devastating war, the germ of World War II. Consciousness and reenactment are important, but not sufficient. Knowing the past is not simply for itself, but for understanding processes and contexts to help make better decisions and shape the future. In our view, the linking of Hungarians and Europeans is the right way. We are convinced that our country's membership of the European Union and its long-term maintenance are the most appropriate. I do not think that the EU will automatically solve everything, but I do think that this is the most appropriate framework for enforcing our national and national interests; I also think that, in addition to an appropriate policy, the reduction of economic and social differences, which are disrupting our country, and that self-determination and the practical implementation of minority principles are, in the long term, more secure within these frameworks, and, in view of the longer term, by possible enlargement, they will also be more secure where this is not the case today. Centuries of clichés can and must quit, honourable Members. CHAPTER XX The failing templates of the century, whether the first half or the second half, must be replaced by a different, new approach, because both of them, the XX. Both attempts of the century proved to be unsuccessful. Remembering the past is important, but it is even more important to consciously shape the future. We believe that the long-term linking of Hungarian and European affairs, this vision is the real national interest on the 100th anniversary of Trianon and beyond. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-03-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-03-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Vice President, Hungarian is the one who hurts Trianon keeps conventional wisdom. Most of the people in the room certainly agree with this statement, as according to the recently published polling data, the vast majority of Hungarians also agree. On the other hand, there are those who resent this statement, saying that it is exclusional. Based on formal logic, it is easy to see why, any of our countrymen choose not to deal with Trianon's trauma, they may feel that the lack of pain excludes him from the Hungarians. On the other hand, and this is the important question: why would Trianon hurt the citizens of any other nation? Thus, it seems that this particular, almost polar definition is true if we understand it correctly, that is, the pain of Trianon is almost unimaginable without someone having a Hungarian identity. [[9.40]] Thus, one of the cornerstones of learning about Hungarian identity is the understanding of Trianon, in this context we can call the events of a hundred years ago after Kant a possible condition of Hungarian identity. The question of why Trianon hurts, we can get a real answer if we look closer at our identity, which generally feeds on several components. Identity forming element can be a common biological origin, habitat, memories, common language, common traditions or even religion. It would be difficult to distinguish these elements chemically, but some of the textbook flavors that I am saying are still true that identity is a common feature that we share with at least one other fellow human being. The more people share these characteristics, the more people claim to belong to that group. However, this is not enough to create identity. Indeed, the existence or lack of common features depends on individuals realizing these qualities together and mutually. So, in the end, we humans create a common identity by recognizing these identity-forming elements in each other, i.e. we fill them with content ourselves. Trianon trauma is also a part of our identity, so it is part of our story about ourselves, which holds us together as a covalent bond. At the moment, there have been a series of crises at our age that highlight how much national identity-forming elements are valued in times of distress. In the event of a global economic crisis, a mass migration involving brutal conflicts, a global epidemic, asymmetric military conflicts, we can rely primarily on our own nation, and even a cosmopolitan lifestyle that seems to operate so well in the days of peace, becomes unsustainable at the same time in the event of a crisis and acts as a driving force for collapse. That is why the manifestations that attack or ignore Hungarians across the border have been extremely harmful and harmful today, insulting Hungarians who remember Trianon and the idea of national cohesion. This is not really an insult to people, what has happened and happened on a series of occasions, or what is said, but to Hungary. It does not offend them, because they do not deal with it, they do so, but the covalent bonds that bind the Hungarian nation are being destroyed by such speeches, and that is why this is unacceptable in such a trying time. Tomorrow is Trianon's 100th anniversary. Based on the above, regardless of who it hurts and who doesn't hurt Trianon, we Hungarians all suffer this day, who for it, who for it. Whether we want it or not, this is one of the most important conditions of our understanding of Hungary. I'm glad your speech made you one of those people, at least I meant those who are hurting Trianon. So I'm asking you to take this proselytizing job on your shoulders and bring more people from your political community to this side. Order must be born there, in the heads on that side. As Krúdy said in his 18th year:. If you escape from this trouble with intact skin, all Hungarians can embrace the thin legs of the saints. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm reporting, we're out of here. Since then Hungarian-Hungarian relations have not been as confident and alive as they are now. Our country's crisis-resistant strength and capacity has been strengthened to an unprecedented extent. I hope we're all happy about this together. Together, the country remembers, we gain strength from the past, from our identity, and its buoyancy is on the verge of a promising, uplifting age. Let's make that a cue and a starter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-16	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, from Jobbik's group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the new situation created by the coronal virus epidemic, the Fidesz propaganda road roller, for the purpose of sweeping his own corruption cases, has often referred to mass immigration, which is a real fundamental threat to European civilisation and societies, and many have accepted this consensus, saying that the government is stealing but at least protecting them. You often scare Hungarian citizens with crime-infected foreign no-go zones wedged in the body and traditional fabric system of Europe. It is memorable that János Lázár even went to the otherwise perfectly well Austrian capital to fear and disguise a good one. Most of the time, this is for the Voldemort and Simonka's still-on-the-track members of the prison team to be able to distract people from what they're doing. So, they're in a foreign no-go zone, while in downtown Budapest, a sociopath brutally slaughters two young people who tried to protect girls who were insulted by a horde of killers. But you do not talk about those ruin society regions once flourishing, but now abandoned by Hungary, where it is particularly obvious how neoliberal shock therapy to date has brought home Hungarian society and economy, incredibly deepening the depths of sociocultural poverty and strengthening the growth of social tensions and criminal subculture. I am talking about the domestic no-go zones where, for some mysterious reason, the paramedic doesn't dare to enter; where you can't catch a teacher with a lasso; where, in the house in the middle of the village, an addicted criminal is allowed; I can't otherwise call it a bestial cruelty to beat an elderly ethnographer for the three golden rings of her; from which she flees, who can even sells her house built by the work of her life, only to move to a civilized country. So perhaps you are right to ask many, many citizens who wish for peace and security why, after ten years, the two weeks have not gone by many times, and their castle is even more beautiful for these hopelessly sinking regions. The root causes of the troubles are very deep, and perhaps the latest case on the government side will encourage you to feel that there is a need for spectacular measures now, and perhaps one of the elements of this is intended to set up a school guard. I myself have never been and will not be one of those who see the cause of every deviant in the state and society only and exclusively. I do believe in the responsibility of both the individual and the family. And since I do not live in a deep-sea shell or a walled luxury residential park, I know that there are families that have been socially socialized for generations, who have members who worship only aggression; who do not understand anything but raw power; in whom there is a cursed prison romance; for whom the teacher and the school are better off just something unnecessary, useless, and in worse cases, the enemy itself, but by no means the only chance of breaking out, and the weaker ones are regarded as prey. But if you think that with this symptomatic treatment, this forced solution, you've solved the problem, you're wrong. For there are many who, despite all their horrifying circumstances, are waiting for a helping hand; who desire only a good word; who are waiting for a positive example to be followed. Let the school guard go if the school demands it and the situation really requires their presence. But we would also be delighted to have hundreds of morally and financially respected school social workers, social teachers and school psychologists in full-time employment in order to help morally and financially respected teachers who, at the time of the break-up of families, in the age of weakened social erodes, would be increasingly needed in order for schools to raise regular citizens. Year after year, we asked for greater care in the budget; year after year we also asked for greater attention to the Commissioner's Children's Houses or schools, and you swept these proposals year after year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Soon they will be able to prove how serious they are about the problem. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-06-03-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-03-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, 26-17: this ratio is now within the Jobbik, this is the number of people that have started and this is the number of them. I do not know exactly what your speech is, a kind of casus belli, with which you will also know yourself sooner or later in the benches outside Jobbik, honourable Member, or some other speech, but for many, Jobbik is the synonym of disintegration at the moment. [[9.50]] Honourable Congressman, You joined the left choir next to you in so far as you called the threat of migration a false alarm. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Wrong! He never said that!]] You do not think that there is a person in Vienna who expresses concerns about migration, and you also do not think that it is alarming, at least it does not make you think that nearly half of the students educated in Vienna have a migration background. You deny these problems. [[Ander Balázs: I won't deny it!]] In this you are consequences, honourable Member, because when it comes to the amendment of the basic law or the national consultation on immigration, you have listened to it, and you have tried to fit into the left-wing choir in a passive way, and are now a little more active. It also shows that whether we are looking at the parliamentary vote or at the national consultation period, it was only the Fidesz-KDNP that really protected people from migration. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: It's not true!]] Your party president at the time went down to the southern Hungarian border and pointed out to the fence that this is not good for anything, it is unnecessary. Then Ferenc Gyurcsány was there a few days with a difference, and he said that it had to be broken down, so he was bolder. You just said it wasn't good for anything. That is the number of crimes, honourable Member: thank God that the number of crimes in Hungary has decreased by 63 percent over the last ten years. This shows not only the effectiveness of the police, but also the greater financial security for people than a decade ago. And then, unspokenly, he took out an old better card, the gypsy question, honourable Member. We believe that your attitude and the liberals' attitude are flawed because you are approaching this issue as an ethnic issue. They want to solve this issue in such a way that the Liberals, on the grounds of the protection of rights, and before that, when their partymates had not yet settled into this liberal circle, they came to this issue on an ethnic basis, based on Gypsy crime. We think the question is that very many people in Hungary live in difficult circumstances and cannot be solved on an ethnic basis, honourable Member, because in difficult circumstances there are Gypsy people and not Gypsy people. We believe that this must be approached from a social point of view, in Hungarian, as many people as possible must be given work, the work should not be taxed to death, but leave as much income as possible with families. This is what our program is about, that we have created 800,000 new jobs, that's what family-type taxation is about, that we leave the costs of raising children with families, and that's what CSOK, baby shower support is all about, and so much more that we want to help people, or the radical minimum wage increase that helped people in difficult situations. This has its results, since the proportion of people in poverty has been reduced from 23.4 per cent to 8.7 per cent, according to Eurostat. The number of people living in relative income poverty decreased from 14 percent to 12 percent. The number of people living in households with low working intensity does not spend at least one day of the week working, from 9.8 percent to 3.7 percent. Now, that's how you fight poverty the way you did, you can't. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the government is determined to ensure security and order in schools and to make teachers feel safe. We are introducing the school guard so that, where necessary, teachers have greater security, and the other students have greater security, and the school should be about learning, not possibly raising fear. We're tightening the penal code to make teachers feel like the Btk. He's more protective of them than he was before. And this year we will raise the wages of teachers by 10 percent to make them feel that besides their physical safety, their financial security is important to us at school. That's what we're offering. On the other hand, you are offering only demeanor and hatred; you are not defending the country, but, as the left usually does, you are attacking your own country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-20	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is possible to return the extraordinary legal order in Hungary here in Parliament, first in comparison between European countries, because Hungary was able to effectively defend itself against the coronal virus epidemic. One of the foundations of this was that the government was able to move quickly, although we were not helped by the opposition, but Parliament opened up the opportunity to act quickly, even within hours, for the government. And the reason why we can eliminate the extraordinary legal order by the end of June is expected to be 20 June, because Hungary was in a much stronger state at the time of the outbreak of the coronal virus than it was ten years ago. Hungary would have been in a lot of trouble if we had listened to opposition politicians, because the politician of Dialogue, Jávor Benedek, even when the epidemic had taken many victims in many European countries, said that there was no real epidemic threat, and this should not be taken seriously. The left would thus have failed the Hungarian people, they did not contribute almost anything to the defence here in Parliament, they only honked, betrayed and spread false news about Hungary. In fact, they did not stop to spread the false news, as MEP László Hajdu, who is here, even a few days ago, shared the false news on a well-known false news portal, which was often written that the return of the 13th month pension would be taken away by the taxation of pensions. This is obvious false news, this has been said many times, but they do not care, over and over again, from week to week, they share it on their own Facebook site because they wish to gain political benefit by spreading false news. Zsolt Gréczy, a former DK Member, also said that a great opportunity is a coronal virus epidemic, since all unemployed people, all sick people, must be put on the government account and thus make political profits. Hungary has received relatively little assistance from the European Union so far. In a joint EU procurement Hungary asked for 250,000 masks, of which 54 thousand were delivered, but as soon as they were delivered, they were asked not to be delivered to hospitals, and then a few days later the instructions came that masks should be destroyed, because they were not of good quality. But before the destruction starts, it is necessary to go through a bureaucratic procedure so that at least the costs of destruction are not borne by Hungary. We have received such assistance from Brussels and many attacks against Hungarian parliamentarism. If the coronal virus epidemic had occurred in Hungary at the time of the left, the patients with the coronal virus would have paid hospital daily in hospitals, there would have been no free parking, and crowds would have entered Hungary without control through the open southern border without knowing whether it was a carrier or not. At the time, there would not have been wage increases, as there is a wage increase for health professionals this year, in January and November, in the case of teachers, school principals and social workers, but wage cuts would not have created jobs, but would have been temporarily distributed out of credit in Hungary. Then instead of economic stimulus, it would be austerity, and we could not talk about the return of the 13th month pension, but about the further reduction of pensions, which they already did in 2008. The Hungarian left lamented that Hungarians were not the first infected, and when they had a real duty of action and responsibility in the elderly homes in the capital, they did nothing for the caretakers there. If the left had led the country, there would have been neither a graduation nor a digital work order, because a petition was launched against graduation, and in relation to schools it was not the digital working order, but the total closure of schools, which would have meant a loss of wages for teachers as well. On the other hand, we have learned language innovations such as the temporary but permanent dictatorship, and they have already predicted by their civil society organisations paid by György Soros that if there is an epidemiological alert in Hungary, the government will surely abuse this. They have not apologized for all of this, but by voting in favour of the Emergency Withdrawal Act, they can still improve, although we do not have much hope for that. Thank God Hungary was stronger in 2020 than in 2010. Unemployment was not 12 per cent, but only 3.5 per cent, the proportion of people living in material deprivation decreased by 60 per cent in ten years, with less than 1.5 million people exposed to severe material deprivation, and the problem was no longer 74 per cent of Hungarians, but only one third if the washing machine had to be replaced or other significant expenditure was needed in the household. Thank God, the virus reached a stronger Hungary than the 2010 Hungary, and the government acted more effectively than the left-wing proposals have been made in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.00]]
u2020-06-03-22	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister András Tállai wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Joining in your speech, to what you have to say, I would like to address the state of the economy, the state of the economy and the measures taken by the Government before the agenda. Prior to the outbreak of the current pandemic, the fundamentals of the domestic economy were significantly more favourable [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] as before the financial crisis in 2008. The Hungarian economy has shown healthy and balanced growth since 2013. Thanks to the government's measures to stimulate labour market activity, the Hungarian labour market indicators have also jumped to the forefront of the European Union. This, coupled with a dynamic rise in wages, has also greatly increased the incomes of families, resulting in a significantly more stable financial situation for households than previously, which has also contributed to the emergence of foreign exchange loans which are a significant burden for the sector. Dynamic growth was coupled with a disciplined fiscal policy on the public finances side, which is well characterised by a persistent decline in deficit and debt ratio. As a result of the favourable processes, our country's debt-to-GDP ratio compared to the 2008 situation is much lower than the average of EU countries. The Hungarian economy has therefore turned to this year with rapid growth, but the corona virus epidemic, as worldwide, has fundamentally overwritten the growth projections in Hungary. Due to measures limiting the spread of the epidemic, the disruption of supply chains and the decline in demand, emissions have decreased in many sectors of the economy. Thus, looking ahead, the 2020 performance will be fundamentally influenced by the run-off of the epidemic. In the last week, the first quarterly GDP growth data published by KSH confirms the merits of the macroeconomic path of the convergence programme. In the first quarter, the Hungarian economy grew by 2.2 percent annually. According to the available data, Hungary remains among the best performing Member States and has even increased its growth surplus as measured by the EU average. The Ministry of Finance believes that the crisis could have culminated in the Hungarian economy in April, but that the biggest economic protection measures in Hungary, one fifth of GDP, could lead to a significant recovery in the second half of the year. Thus, the forecast of the convergence programme is maintained, with an increase of 4.8 per cent in 2021 after the 3 per cent decline this year. With regard to economic forecasts, it should be noted that, according to current projections, almost half of analysts do not expect a decline of more than 3.5 per cent. The convergence programme's path with a 3 per cent reduction in GDP, taking into account greater uncertainty than usual, is not out of the forecast at all, so it cannot be accused of unfounded, unjustified optimism. Based on the size of the Hungarian package, it is one of the most important in Europe. The government's action plan covers all stakeholders, all companies, all families, obviously at the level affected by the crisis. By the end of this year, a moratorium on loan repayment was announced for businesses and households, which could amount to more than HUF 3600 billion, up to 7 percent of GDP, if everyone makes use of this option. The moratorium greatly improves the liquidity situation of those with credit, thus maintaining their demand. However, we could list the possibility of a HUF 1500 billion funding facility for the NHP, or the economic protection plan will help companies manage the crisis by providing a guarantee and interest-supported loan and capital for nearly HUF 1700 billion. Dear Parliament, The government has also done its best in economic terms to ensure that the country, people and businesses feel as little as possible. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the impact of the crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-24	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz Group, asked for a speech with a title 100 Trianon. Before I give the floor to the Member, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect, because there is very high ground noise in this Chamber so that the incoming members can take their seats and listen to our fellow Members. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, CHAPTER XX The most tragic event in Hungarian history of the century and the end of a thousand-year-old Hungary are the reports of Trianon. A hundred years ago, on June 4, 1920, the shameful, unjust peace dictatorship was forced into Hungary by the powers that won the World War. Although the winners declared our death sentence, we stood up, and today, a hundred years after the mutilation, Hungary still has it, and it has never been as strong as it is today. Dear House, Trianon lives in our hearts, lives in my heart. I am also speaking now because my personal fate is linked to the dismemberment of Hungary, because I was born Hungarian, but a Romanian citizen in Tarosvásárhely, Transylvania. There are many people here in this House whose ancestors were born in the disconnected territories, but as far as I know, I was the only one born there. Forty years ago, as a student of the Bolyai Farkas High School, founded in 1557, I did not think that as a Hungarian citizen I would be a member of the Hungarian National Assembly. The Good God has given me this opportunity, but the last ten years have also given our fellow nations across the border the opportunity to become Hungarian citizens and to become members of a united Hungarian nation today. In the last hundred years, we Hungarians have lived through many things. After the partial revision, war and 45 years of communist darkness followed. For 45 years here in Hungary it was taught that the country and the Hungarian nation will end at Ártánd or Tompa, the official storytelling silenced the fact that three and a half million Hungarians live across the border in the Carpathian Basin. József Antall closed the 10 million Hungarian communist world with his statement on 15 million Hungarians. I remember the Prime Minister's statement that we cried with the family and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians in the world: we are important at last, not only do we want the Hungarian country, Hungary wants us. We lived for decades, millions on the other side of the border, because we took it for granted that we were Hungarians, we used to sing the Anthem with tears on the New Year's Eve in Hungarian time, and as if we had gone to the final battle, we were cheering for Hungary in prayer before the Romanian-Hungarian football matches. Dear House, Trauma cannot be fully dealt with, but to some extent it is necessary, as life went on as early as June 5, 1920. On the other hand, because of the communist silence, we have talked little in the last hundred years about the unfair collective punishment of Hungarians and the personal tragedy of many Hungarians. Many were killed, hundreds of thousands of refugees, lived in wagons, many harms to the Hungarians, many people's lives were crippled. Even today, in the disconnected areas, Trianon faces us every day, whether Hungarians cannot take on Hungarian citizenship, speak in their mother tongue, close their schools, or even the President of the State is inciting us against our fellow nations. Dear House, After the change of regime, we've come a long way in thirty years of finding each other. The Horn government following the Antall government representing 15 million Hungarians in the soul, even with different accents, was thinking in a Hungarian nation. This policy has been re-established with the first Fidesz age, and there has been a spectacular increase in aid rates, a new phase with the status law in public law. This was stopped by the Gyurcsány government and dug its own grave on 5 December 2004. After 2010, the second Orbán government announced a new paradigm, the foundation of which is the fundamental responsibility of the fundamental law, the dual citizenship law based on it, and the law declaring 4 June a day of national cohesion. We can never forget Trianon, but we have to face reality. We have dealt with the trauma without being destroyed or even strengthened in recent years. [[10.10]] We've never been in a position like today. Today, a strong Hungary begins the next hundred years, in a situation where the Hungarians once again found each other in the Carpathian Basin, and with the exception of an extremist party, Hungarian society now understands and feels Trianon, realizes the injustice, and does not wonder if a Hungarian from Szabadkai, Kassa, Lendva, Osijek, Szipszereda, Beregszási speaks Hungarian. At the same time, the hundred years of loneliness have ended: today we have allies, we have successes. The relations with Serbia have never been as good as they are today. We agree with Slovakia in the V4 framework on a great many issues, although there are still issues to be resolved. The Serbian example also proves that it is not up to the Hungarians that we do not have a good relationship with Ukraine or Romania today. Dear House, What was unfair at the time is unfair today. We'll never forget you! Our children must be told the past, they must be raised as proud Hungarians. We have survived the last hundred years, and today we are the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin. Work is needed to further develop legal, cultural and economic funds in order to further build the nation. We're on the line here and we're too ready for the next hundred years. Hungary above all, the Good God above all of us! Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, [[It's grumpy.]] On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. I would ask my fellow Members, if possible, to conclude the discussions now. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-03-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I also argued in my earlier speech that Trianon, whether we want it or not, is part of not only the Hungarian nation, but also of the individual history of all of us. I myself, after my seven-false Csángo grandfather fleeing from the Romanian military service to Pest, I proudly bear the family name, and the same name as the largest Szekler. Well, it's complicated, like everything here in the Carpathian Basin. But the point is that since Trianon's tragedy is every tragedy in Hungary, so all Hungarian governments have a dog duty, or, if you will, a responsibility to be accountable to God to pursue a policy that serves the cause of cross-border union and Hungarian-Hungarian cooperation. However, for this to happen, the government must be consistent and predictable in defining, following and communicating its national policy objectives, giving a clear message to cross-border parts of the nation and to neighbouring states. Well, if this standard and the reckoning cannot be avoided, I feel that we have no reason to be ashamed, since 2010, the Government of Hungary has been working along these lines. Let the concrete steps and results speak for themselves! These could be classified for a long time from the time that, as you mentioned, the Parliament voted on 26 May 2010 to amend the Hungarian citizenship law, introducing the simplified naturalisation procedure, resulting in a number of Hungarian citizens living in the world today, followed by the granting of suffrage. [[It's constant noise.]] Please allow me to mention a few more steps. 1200 Hungarian and foreign Hungarian settlements [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We supported the establishment and strengthening of a sister settlement relationship. In the framework of the Unlimited! program almost 400,000 Hungarian students could reach the border. We support 225 thousand foreign Hungarian preschool and school-school mother tongue education each year in the framework of the Hungarian language programme. We run a Carpathian Basin business network. We also opened the possibility of applying for maternity support and baby bonds for foreign Hungarians. However, the last century has taught us that there is no strong nation without strong communities. The survival of Hungarians all over the world depends on the existence and strength of local communities that frame them. Hungarian national policy is therefore at the heart of maintaining and strengthening the functioning Hungarian communities. There is no Hungarian community in the Carpathian Basin or elsewhere in the world that we would not have reached. In recent years we have contributed to the activities of more than 5 thousand Hungarian institutions and organizations outside the Carpathian Basin: we have created 130 new kindergartens and crèches, and we have developed and renovated more than 700 institutions; we have ensured the sustainable functioning of more than 50 Hungarian secondary schools, colleges and sporadic colleges, and we provide permanent support for the operation of eight foreign, Hungarian language higher education institutions and Hungarian faculty; through the Kőrösi Csoma program and the Petőfi Sándor programme we have supported almost 80 thousand Hungarians living in diaspora and sporadics; through our programmes we provide professional and financial support for the implementation of professional and development projects to thousands of Hungarian entrepreneurs from abroad. However, we should not forget that even a hundred years after the peace dictatorship, we can still talk about large and living Hungarian communities outside our borders, which is the result of the stability and internal holding of those living there. This internal holding made it possible for the Hungarians to use the XX. In spite of the horrors of the century, ethnic cleansing, communist dictatorships and the repressive ethnicity policy of the successor states, it should be maintained in almost all neighbouring countries. When we look back for the last hundred years, we must pay tribute to this courageous endurance, to the Hungarian parents who gave it to their children during the decades of fear. [[It's constant noise.]] the Hungarian word... [[He's taking a moment's break.]] We must salute the Hungarian parents here in the National Assembly, who also gave the Hungarian word to their children during the decades of fear raising, who took the lead of the Hungarian communities, who encouraged and encouraged others to stand up for the Hungarians by their individual and community example. Honourable Congressman, It is also thanks to the perseverance of your family that you, as a Transylvanian Hungarian born in Marsók, can speak Hungarian here today as a representative of the Parliament. Thank them for this. András Sütő wrote in 1988 to Imre Sinkovits, celebrating his 60th birthday in a letter, and I quote: instead of heroic demise, I have to say quietly: I remain and add to myself: I am staying, I cannot do otherwise. This concludes my speech, and there is no need for a better government creed today. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties, Jobbik and the independent.]]
u2020-06-03-28	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. It's 10:17, and we're continuing our work with decisions. Before we go any further, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and now to finish other private consultations. [[One voice, yes.]] Congresswoman! [[Turning to Szabó Timea:]] It is for you and for our fellow Members! Yeah. Please take a seat. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm sitting in the bench!]] Have a seat. [[Szabó Timea: Now I want to stand! Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Before we begin our work, please check the functionality of the voting machines. Please press one of your ballots. [[A moment's pause.]] Now, please, let's press one of the voting buttons. [[It's happening. Present: 166 persons, away: 33 persons.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're starting the vote. Following the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. Act CXXVII of 2012 on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the conduct of veterinary services. T/10097. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment 10097/7. No 10097/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee will accept 10097/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, not by vote, with 28 abstentions. [[10.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10097/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 143 votes in favour, no votes against, with 28 abstentions. It follows from the 1995 LIII on general rules for the protection of the environment. Act and Act LIII of 1996 on the Protection of Nature T/10099. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10099/5. T/10099/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10099/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 150 votes in favour, no votes against, with 21 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10099/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes in favour, no votes against, with 21 abstentions. Next up is T/7021 on the announcement of the climate crisis. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7021/9. T/7021/10 and T/7021/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 5. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Ms Zita Gurmai. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 116 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7021/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7021/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. The H/7380 on non-deferential tasks arising from climate change emergencies follows. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/7380/8. H/7380/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 4 tabled by Mr Csárdi Antal and Mr Péter Ungár. I ask the Honourable Parliament, do you maintain the proposal? Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 116 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/7380.8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/7380/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 51 votes against and no abstentions. Next, the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company will be XLII in 1994. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service T/1021 on the amendment of Act T/1021 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10217/5. and the summary report by T/10217/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10217.5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 13 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10217/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 42 votes against and 14 abstentions. It follows that the T/10310 amending certain laws for the purposes of harmonisation in the context of the amendment of EU law on the control of the acquisition and possession of arms Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10310/5. and the summary report by T/10310/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10310/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes to seven, with 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10310/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes to six, with 16 abstentions. The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations follows. T/10316. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[10.30]] T/10316/5. T/10316/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10316/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes to 17, with 39 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10316/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes to 15, with 41 abstentions. It follows that T/10313 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to the promotion of adult training activities will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10313/5. and a summary report by T/10313/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10313/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes to 13, with 21 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10313/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 139 votes to 13, with 21 abstentions. It follows that T/10311 on the amendment of the laws on individual legal status and other defence issues will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1031/15. and the summary report by T/10311/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1031/15. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes to 49, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1031/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to 49, with 8 abstentions. It follows that T/10314 on the necessary modification of certain tax laws to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10314/6. T/10314/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 115 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10314/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes to two, with 36 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10314/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 7 against and 29 abstentions. Next up is the T/10315 on retail tax. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10315/5. T/10315/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10315/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes to 24, with 32 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/103157. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes in favour, 18 against and 33 abstentions. It follows that T/10308 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the functioning of the crisis insurance system in agriculture will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10308/5. T/10308/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10308/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 160 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10308/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[10.40]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members who do not wish to take part in the further plenary debate and wish to leave the Chamber to do so quietly and as soon as possible. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with general debates. I call on my fellow Members in the debate to remain in the Chamber, as far as possible, only the Members who spoke in the debate and the two Members who asked to speak afterwards, in order to preserve the health of all of us. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on judicial matters until closure. The government referral T/10744. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Barnabás Hajas, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-03-29	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill negotiated by this House contains a total of eight laws on judicial matters, namely the Law on notaries, the Law on Court Enforcement, the Law on the Service of Members of the Court, the Law on Legal Assistance, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on the Status of Prosecutors and other Public Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Offices and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Life of Prosecutors, the Law on Private International Law and the Law on Certain Rules applicable in Court Civil Procedure and certain Law on Non-court proceedings. The author formulated his proposals in the light of the practical experience of the application of the law and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. May the honourable Parliament allow me to explain in detail the proposals for each amendment. First, I would like to briefly present the changes to the notaries' law. It is justified in a significant part by the Constitutional Court's decision published in November 2019 in which the panel found that there was a failure to comply with the basic law in relation to deficiencies in the regulation of the formation and procedure of notary disciplinary courts. In order to remedy this, the bill makes it compulsory to set the order of business of disciplinary courts, which will include in the future rules on the composition of the governing councils, the order of the position of investigators and the rules on the distribution and administration of disciplinary matters. The publication on the website of the relevant courts, that is, the courts and the Curia, as well as the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries ensures the knowledge of the approved order of business and order of division of cases. In addition, the bill retains the dual character of the composition of disciplinary courts, i.e. including members of judges and notaries, but, for reasons of guarantee, it also lays down rules at the level of the law on the establishment of councils. The bill settles the grounds for exclusion and the treatment of the investigating commissioner, the chairman of the Board of Disciplinary Court. The bill partially renews the rules on suspension from the notary service in order to strengthen public confidence in the notary profession. The purpose of the provision is to remove the consequences arising from the situation as soon as possible after the reason for suspension, so that in cases not requiring disciplinary action, the national President determines the existence of the legal conditions for suspension, and in such cases there will be no room for consideration in the future. In our view, it is not permissible for notaries who provide impartial legal services which are granted public credibility by law to participate in non-court proceedings and document drafting after the circumstances giving rise to suspension. For example, it is for such serious reasons that the notary, the deputy notary or the notary or the candidate for notary are subject to criminal proceedings for a criminal offence more than three years of imprisonment. Finally, the proposal also renews the rules governing the exercise of the voting rights of notaries as regards the public bodies of the Chamber. In addition, the rules for notarial document drafting and signature verification will be clarified. In other words, the aim of the proposal is to strengthen public confidence vis-à-vis notaries exercising public authority and, on the other hand, to bring into legal form the practical application experience of the notary law. Dear Parliament, The bill also amends the law on judicial enforcement, which contains the necessary provisions for enforcement to become a judicial and legal profession and for further strengthening public trust. In view of this, provisions will be introduced to strengthen the conditions for the appointment of independent judicial executors and the grounds for termination of service, as well as to extend the scope of disciplinary proceedings and the circumstances giving rise to suspension of the executive service. Practical experience has shown that if the criminal offence committed intentionally by the enforcer is Btk. According to him, it is appropriate to grant the Head of the Office of the Hungarian Executive Faculty of the Court of Justice an independent right of suspension with a sentence of more than five years. Following the amendment, if the executioner is registered in criminal records, the head of the administrative body of the faculty shall immediately file a disciplinary report. In addition, the tightening of the appointment criteria and the grounds for termination of service with the executives should be properly transferred to the registration of the deputy independent judicial executioners and candidates for execution and to the removal of them from the register. This bill re-regulates the composition of the disciplinary board at first instance in the disciplinary proceedings of the executives. In addition to a member of the disciplinary board of the three-member court, his executive member shall be elected as specialist. In the course of the proceedings of the Disciplinary Board of First Instance, immediate enforcement may be ordered if the failure to implement the decision would result in a breach or threat of the rights, legitimate interests or public confidence in the executives of the parties and other interested parties exceeding the individual interest resulting from the implementation of the decision. The amendment significantly increases the amount of the fine which may be imposed as a disciplinary penalty in order to ensure a more effective retention from the commission of a disciplinary offence. Accordingly, the fine may amount to HUF 20 million instead of HUF 5 million, instead of HUF 500,000, instead of HUF 500,000. The bill also amends the rules on the sale of assets seized in the course of implementation to make enforcement procedures faster and more efficient as a result of shortening and simplifying the process of electronic movable and real estate auction. In addition to increasing the speed and efficiency of implementation procedures, shortening the process will result in significant administrative and cost reductions by reducing the cost and burden of setting auctions. [[10.50]] Following the examination of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the bill regulates the irregular legal fate of movable property in the case of the evacuation of property. The amendment will extend, inter alia, to 30 days so far for the preservation of movable property for 60 days. Furthermore, feedback and experience from the law enforcement authorities have made it clear that less clarification of the existing implementing procedural rules has become necessary in order to harmonise the application of the law. Mr President, Dear House, The bill also amends the law on the status of judicial staff. The bill contains provisions on disciplinary penalties and grounds for non-appointing judicial staff. In order to ensure that the system of disciplinary penalties is properly differentiated and that the Disciplinary Board can impose disciplinary penalties of a weight appropriate to all circumstances of the case, the bill introduces new disciplinary penalties. It shall also indicate, among the grounds for refusal to appoint a judicial author, secretary and judicial expert, the detention penalty, thus adapting the rules of the law to the provisions of the Criminal Code. Allow me to draw your attention to the provisions of the bill amending the Law on Legal Assistance. In this context, protection lawyers acting in cross-border maintenance matters will also be able to apply for a procedural advance in the light of enforcement feedback. As a result of the amendment, seconded patron lawyers will be able to benefit from part of their remuneration for these cases already in the course of the procedure, only at the end of the procedure. Since cross-border maintenance cases can by their very nature drag on, it is important that the victimical work of legal representatives be rewarded in this way. Another important element of the bill concerning legal assistance is the electronicisation of the administration of the management of the register of legal aid. Following the establishment of a single digital administration space, the administration process will become more transparent, faster and more economical, reducing the administrative burden for customers and administrators. Dear Parliament, The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the new rules of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office Service facilitate a more differentiated and thorough decision in the disciplinary procedures of prosecutor's staff as well as in the case of public prosecutor's officials with a higher education degree, allowing time spent in labour law relations to be taken into account as a period of service. In addition, the bill contains a number of clarifications based on enforcement feedback. This bill also amends the transitional provisions of the Law on private international law in the light of practical experience. The purpose of this is to ensure that the rules of the Act on certain family status and marital status can also be applied to the facts and legal relationships arising before its entry into force, thereby avoiding situations of legal uncertainty resulting from the rigidity of previous private international law rules. As you know, as of 1 March 2020, the court shall proceed with the procedure for ordering the enforcement of a decision on relations with the child. For the benefit of children and for the protection of the child, it is of utmost importance that enforcement be carried out as soon as possible. The provisions of the bill before this House which amend certain rules of civil non-court proceedings serve this purpose, so that, if adopted, the court may act out of order in these matters and order the evidence it deems necessary on its own initiative. In addition to these key amendments, the proposal contains further clarifications to facilitate a uniform interpretation of the law, as indicated by the law-appliant. Mr President, Dear House, In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the following: the bill under discussion is a carefully prepared proposal involving professional vocational organisations, which seeks to incorporate the needs in practice into the provisions of the laws concerned. The amendments serve to simplify, streamline, strengthen public confidence and, last but not least, to comply with the requirements indicated by the Constitutional Court. Dear Parliament, In view of this, I would like to ask for the discussion and adoption of a bill amending certain laws on the subject of justice. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to amend a number of laws on the subject of justice, given the experience of law enforcement practices, professional feedback and, as has been said, the findings of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is a member of the Constitutional Court of 28/2019. In its resolution, the Parliament imposed a failure to comply with the basic law by not regulating the detailed rules relating to the formation and proceedings of notary disciplinary courts in accordance with the requirements arising from Article 28 (1) of the Fundamental Law. In order to remedy the problem, the amendment states that in the most serious cases required, the suspension from the service takes place by virtue of the law, the conditions for which are laid down by the national President. The proposal submitted seeks to address further problems based on the practical feedback of the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries, thus including the reform of the suffrage of notaries and clarifying the requirements for document drafting and signature verification. Ladies and gentlemen, The main points of the amendment to the law on judicial enforcement are: 1. The executive service shall be created by the appointment of the Minister of Justice in charge of the Executive. 2. An independent right of suspension shall be granted to the head of the Office of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty in the event that the criminal offence committed intentionally by the executive is the Btk. According to him, he is punishable by imprisonment of more than five years. 3. In the disciplinary proceedings of the executives, the amendment requires that a member of the three-member disciplinary board acting in the first instance, in addition to a member of the Disciplinary Board, be elected as special administrator. 4. In order to make the procedures faster, more efficient and cheaper, the rules on the sale of the assets seized in execution will be amended and time limits set for the execution of certain procedural acts will be set for the execution of the execution. Dear House, I do not intend to list all the extensive amendments, since we have already heard a detailed description of them from the rapporteur, and I would just like to point out a few more examples. According to the amendment of the Law on Legal Assistance, a procedural advance may be established for a protective lawyer acting in cross-border maintenance matters, and this has not been possible so far. Legal feedback will also be used to amend certain provisions of the Law on Lawyers and the Law on the Status of Prosecutors in relation to the disciplinary liability of employees and the rules on the calculation of the periods of service of officials and clerks. The rules governing the procedure for the enforcement of the decision on contacts in the rules applicable in judicial civil non-court proceedings and certain law on non-court proceedings shall be amended to take account of the indications of the application of the law and to provide clarification in order to facilitate a uniform interpretation of the law. [[11.00]] The proposal also aims to amend the transitional provisions of the Law on Private International Law with a view to practical experience. Dear Parliament, In my view, the amendments envisaged by the proposal are indeed suitable to address the problems raised, taking into account the needs and feedback of the enforcement practices and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In view of what has been said, the proposed bill is supported by the Fidesz-KDNP Group and I call on the opposition parties to do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Once again, we have received a salad law, and we can talk about it; well, we have explained in Parliament that we, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, but in general opposition parties are critical when we meet salad laws. Obviously, when several laws are amended in a proposal, when they are closely interlinked, the subject is similar, the regulation is similar, and the regulation applies to this and that law because they want to standardise the regulation, there is a place for us to meet salad laws, but there are indeed cases where there is no connection between them, and there is usually the experience that over the past ten years we are constantly receiving these salad laws without any connection between them. Thank God, now we've got one in which only eight laws are changed, not eighty-ninety, which, unfortunately, happens in this way several times. And obviously we assume because it is also our experience that, often in these cases, serious political issues may arise, hiding between professional and policy changes. Obviously, we have experienced this sort of thing more than once on the part of the government and on the part of the two-thirds majority of Fidesz-KDNP when proposed salad law comes in. So this is what we're meeting here, thank God, as I said, only eight laws are changed in it, the first is the notary law. In the law on notaries, the order of business of the disciplinary court is primarily changed or the rules on disciplinary proceedings are partially amended. It should be pointed out here, which has already been mentioned earlier, that the Constitutional Court had a decision, a 2019 resolution, specifying what should be amended, so that Parliament would not fail. These amendments are now being included, and, as I said, it is primarily about disciplinary action. Today, judicial enforcement in Hungary is a major problem, and there are many criticisms both of the government and of the executives' activities and, where appropriate, of the parliament, that it will bring about inadequate legislation. So this is an issue that is sensitive to people, especially given the fact that to date the problem of foreign exchange lenders in Hungary has not been solved, which has caused a constant number of evictions in Hungary, which have now been suspended, but we know well that they will continue to flow, and countless Hungarian families will come to the terrible fate of eviction because they have not been able to pay twice, two and a half times, three times the burden on them due to foreign exchange loans. So this, as I said, is sensitive to a large part of Hungary, which is why people are so observant every time there is some kind of change in the enforcement law. We can obviously talk about both positive and negative changes here. The speakers before me pointed out that the profession has already indicated what they would like to modify, and this is also taken into account. I think that it is always positive when the bill is drafted in such a way that it asks for the views of those concerned or, in many cases, the views of those concerned determine the draft legislation. In this regard, I have also discussed this legislation with court enforcement, and there is one that was specifically required by the executive chamber or executive staff, such as the rule that removes a decade of uncertainty in the executive ranks, namely when they review their activities every seven years and the competent minister extends their entitlement to the procedure for another seven years. By the way, the rules so far obviously had their advantages, because here they could also examine the activities of an executive in the past period, and on the basis of which the Minister of Justice could decide whether to continue his activities or not to continue his activities. Obviously, this has caused a great deal of uncertainty within the profession. What is in this regulation is that, if there has been a serious disciplinary offence against him in the past period, it will obviously not be extended indefinitely, but if it has not, it may be extended for an indefinite period, therefore not for seven years. This is obviously a positive process for executives, since the uncertainty that was in their procedures will be eliminated. We hope that this rule will not lead to a shift in the wrong direction that will make it easier for the bailiffs to understand their activities in the future, and they will continue to work in the same way as they have done before, so very careful not to commit any action that could lead to any disciplinary offense against them, because it would be uncertain if they were to extend their assignment every seven years. There are also changes in the auction rules, and obviously there are also positive aspects and negative sides. We believe that in all cases where an official process, any administrative process, accelerates, simplifies, administration decreases, in the case at hand is positive, so the general public is also positive about these processes. Obviously, in the event that we are talking about getting to a foreign exchange credit eviction in a shorter time, I think that the majority of Hungarian society will not appreciate it as a positive one, and here I think that there is a way to distinguish why one is there. I know it's very difficult to put it that way. It is also a strange thing that, in the case of movable auctions, if there is no interest, it is possible to lower and lower. After all, we agree that the starting price is becoming more and more reduced, and there are 15-day intervals. You can agree with that. But the final price, the 1 percent, is rather harsh, that it is possible to obtain certain assets at a price of 1 percent, and there is no protection of debtors here. The protection of debtors is strewn around in court proceedings, so even when the value is established, the value can be opposed, but the whole thing will be worth nothing, because even if the value has been set higher, the debtor will fight this out, and indeed it is worth as much as the value reset if, after all, it will be alienated for 1 percent of this amount. So we can't agree with 1 percent in this respect. The rules of the real estate auction also change somewhat, the sections enter here: 90, 70 and 50 percent can be reached, and 70 percent in residential properties, if the only residential property is the one where, of course, we could talk about the percentage of the starting price, which is the same as the value. It also addresses in detail the suspension of the new amendment from the enforcement service, as well as the conditions for removal from the executive register, disciplinary penalties. Since we have experienced and have been involved in many cases in the media, when there have been errors of execution and, where appropriate, abuses, it is very right that penalties should be tightened up in this area as well. Well, let me tell you, the bailiffs were shocked at the amount that a fine of HUF 20 million could be imposed instead of the previous HUF 5 million, but I think that the penalty should always be proportionate to how it was committed, and if it will be properly assessed in disciplinary proceedings, this could be a good regulation, if any. [[11.10]] Let's talk about who's acting here. In the past, it has been professional judges who have dealt with disciplinary matters. Here, too, I have to talk about a positive move when, in disciplinary matters at first instance, the bailiffs themselves can take part, and they can have a say, and not only the judges can decide about them. Here, the specialist system is introduced, and the experts can be executives with university law degree, legal exam and at least one year of enforcement practice. So both their knowledge and their practice may be able to make a decision on these matters. So this is how the composition of the first instance disciplinary court changed, the three judges so far will now become one judge, and two experts will decide. Otherwise, disciplinary judges are elected by the National Judicial Council. There is also a change in the law on the status of prosecutors. Well, here's an interesting thing, because the justification for the extraordinary resignation has somehow fallen behind from the text of the law, which has now been replaced. By the way, this is very right, because the reason for the resignation must be obvious and it must be real and logical. Obviously, who has participated in labour lawsuits, and on either side there is a termination, where appropriate an extraordinary termination from the employee, then it must also be justified because it will not stand up in court if there is no reality or logic in this labour decision. So it is very right that it will be introduced here as well, and in disciplinary punishment, the two levels of reprimand will also be included. So there will be one more opportunity to punish the prosecutor in disciplinary action. Finally, a sentence also amends the rules on judicial non-court proceedings, and this changes the rules on the implementation of the decision on contacts. I think that if there were some changes in some things, this amendment would even be technically acceptable. So I am thinking here that if 1 percent were not included in the implementation, or if enforcement procedures were not accelerated for foreign exchange creditors, this bill would even be acceptable. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-03-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Justice Committee, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/10744 on the amendment of certain laws on judicial matters The purpose of this bill is to strengthen and clarify the disciplinary and service provisions on notaries, executives, judicial staff and prosecutors in order to further strengthen public trust in justice. In addition to the above, the bill amends Article XXVIII of 2017 on private international law. CXVIII of 2017 on the rules applicable in court civil non-court proceedings and certain non-court proceedings. LXXX of 2013 on Legal Assistance Law. In view of what was said in Mr Hajas Barnabas's exposé, and of what has already been said by Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of Fidesz, I would like to emphasise in particular the following from the bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, The first law involved, which I would like to highlight, is the 1991 XLI on notaries. As regards the amendment of which I consider it particularly important to stress that, on the one hand, the bill provides for the predictability and transparency of the formation and functioning of a disciplinary court by establishing additional rules in accordance with AB's decision. In the first instance, the disciplinary committee in the courts in which the chambers are established will continue to decide, and in the second instance the disciplinary court in the Curia. The regional presidency shall have an influence on the court, two notaries shall be elected to the Curia as disciplinary judges and two notaries shall be elected as investigators to the Disciplinary Court. Five members of the disciplinary court shall be appointed by the President of the Courts or by the President of the Curia. This dual nature, i.e. professional representation and professional judicial proceedings, is the whole of the notary disciplinary proceedings. On the other hand, the bill also makes it compulsory, in accordance with AB's decision, to establish the order of business of disciplinary courts, which must include the composition of the governing councils and the way in which disciplinary matters are distributed. The bill also recreates, thirdly, the rules on the exclusion of notary law, extending its scope to the members of the disciplinary court. The bill renews a quarter of the rules of suspension from the service in order to establish by declarative decision the legal conditions of the suspension in cases not requiring disciplinary action, i.e. cases not requiring suspension balance. The bill amends the fifth part of the exercise of the suffrage of notaries in such a way that during the election of the members of the regional notary chamber and the members of the national electoral, the deputy notary members can only be elected by notaries. Finally, the bill also clarifies and simplifies the rules on notary papermaking and signature verification. Ladies and Gentlemen, The second law concerned, which I would like to highlight, is LIII. I consider it particularly important to emphasise that Vht is a law concerning the amendment of which. The amendment introduced a tightening of the terms and conditions of appointment and the grounds for termination of the service of independent judicial executives. The legal basis for disciplinary proceedings against the executor will be further extended and the circumstances giving rise to suspension of the executive service will also be extended. With regard to the disciplinary proceedings of the executives, the regulation is also amended. The amendment raises the amount of the fine which may be imposed as a disciplinary penalty to a significant extent, so the fine may amount to HUF 20 million instead of HUF 5 million. Finally, according to the amendment, if the independent judicial executor without legal qualifications does not certify his degree in university law by 31 December 2022, his executive service will cease. The third law concerned, which I would highlight, is LXVIII of 1997 on the service relationship of judicial staff. I think it is particularly important to emphasise that disciplinary penalties for certain judicial staff will become more differentiated by the bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, The fourth law concerned, which I would like to highlight, is CLXII of 2011 on the Public Prosecutor's Office. I consider it important to stress that the bill, like the courts, also highlights the choice of the courts from among the bodies which may be checked by the public interest prosecutor, and introduces the concept of the bodies which deal with the proceedings instead of the concept of the bodies which perform the rights. [[11.20]] In addition, the rules on the processing of data in the public interest activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office are amended. The fifth law concerned, which I would highlight, is CLXIV 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. I stress that the bill amends the legal rules governing the service of public prosecutorial servants, clarifying the rules on the grounds for extraordinary resignation, and complements the scope of disciplinary penalties against the prosecutor with the penalty of two grades, but also contains provisions on the disciplinary system of non-prosecutorial staff, and, thirdly, changes the duration of disciplinary proceedings to 60 days instead of the 30 days currently in force. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, KDNP supports T/10744 on the amendment of certain laws on judicial matters. Bill No. 1. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said by the speakers before me, we are discussing a salad law containing amendments to eight laws. Our problems with the salad law as such, our concerns are known from the opposition side, which we have said many times. The fact is, it is very difficult to judge a salad law with the possibility of deciding between three buttons. Obviously, often a significant part of the law within the salad laws can be supported even by the opposition side, but most of the time these salad laws contain proposals that are not eligible, and then later there are political disputes and conflicts. Perhaps it is not this salad law that will provoke the greatest anger and debate here in this House, but I felt it was important to say it. I think it would be possible to find a technical opportunity for this House to decide on individual legislation in separate votes for salad laws, if any, if the individual amendments are not very closely linked. A lot of people have said it, and Mr Secretary of State has spoken very in detail, obviously in his exposé, and I do not wish to repeat it in detail in this sense. The proposal also amends the Law on notaries. This also deals with a failure to comply with fundamental law, but it also amends the law on judicial staff, the law on public prosecutors' law, the law on private international law, the rules applicable in court proceedings and the law on individual court proceedings, starting with the rules on judicial enforcement. So they have been spoken, I think, in relatively detail, about the direction in which these amendments are being proposed. However, I would like to say that I would like to make comments in three areas, and obviously we will review the final text of the norm in relation to this and shape our voting behaviour accordingly. Perhaps the first is that many times these salads are not only difficult to process in this sense, especially because they come in a lot of times from this wallet in connection with the amendment of certain law on judicial matters, I think we have discussed these types of salads several times here in the spring session, so it is very difficult for those involved to pick up and follow this speed. So perhaps we should also pay attention to fewer, really important and traceable packages. On the other hand, when the law on judicial enforcement is amended, even if the comments of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives have now been incorporated, and even if this proposal contains many positive elements, we must always say that there is a need for comprehensive regulation on implementation. The rules of implementation need to be rethinked when hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are trapped in debt traps, when the conditions for basic maintenance cannot be guaranteed for several Hungarian families. I think that Parliament should redefine what the minimum of human life means, what is the minimum of decent human life; I think that Parliament should rethink this. There are prohibitions, implementations for some families that really do not allow these families to exist, the minimum of human life, leave a minimum income in the wallet of these families, and the eruption from this does not seem to be many tens of thousands of Hungarian families. So this is a perspective that is a terrible debt slavery, it cannot be allowed to do so. Public involvement in this should also be re-thought, and I think that the rules on judicial enforcement should be re-thought in a comprehensive manner, on its own. I would like to mention as a third in the series of comments that we are living in very difficult times. The situation that I have been talking about is now getting worse with another crisis, the economic and social crisis in the context of the coronal virus epidemic. In this respect, I understand the intention, and there was also a sure discussion behind it that there are proposals for such disciplinary matters, whether for the prosecutor's office or for judicial staff, but the possibility of sanctions threatening to reduce salaries, especially for judicial staff, in these difficult times, may not be the most timely to introduce. The rethink of this, beyond the professional goals, I recommend to the wallet. All in all, therefore, our experience is that, both in the commission and later in the Legislative Committee, the text of these types of salad laws often changes significantly and substantially, so the final behaviour of the MSZP fraction will be based on these changes, in the light of the final text of the standard. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-06-03-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There is a very thick bill before us, and, as the opposition representatives before me have already stated, in relation to our attitude to the salad law, there is an opposition front, a salad law front, because I could say the same thing, so I am trying to cut short the part of my speech that the opposition representatives before me have already said. So there is a role when a salad law comes before the House, there are times when a given situation of life has to be regulated in several different laws or involves several different laws, and, of course, there is logic in bringing them into the same proposal, but that is not the case here. As the title says, it amends certain laws on the subject of justice, but these proposals for amendments are not particularly relevant to each other. So the eight laws, the amendment of which is linked here in about 60 pages, could have come in completely calmly separately, negotiated separately, and it would have been much easier to judge the support of one or another. In this case, it is always the case, and in the case of this package, that there are a number of positive and forward-looking proposals, but there are also a few proposals which, for example, cannot be supported or raised by DK, at least, but that must be decided to support or reject the whole package, since this is how it will be voted in the end. [[11.30]] If we are going into the specifics: as I said before, there are many good proposals, I am not even going to start detailing them now, because the speakers before me have presented a number of details of these proposals; my problem with them is that a good part of the proposals have been solving problems that have been known for years. So I have a problem with the timeliness that if we know that one thing or another doesn't work, it doesn't work well, we get feedback from the proposal that feedback has come from either professional organisations or from other sources, that it doesn't work one part of the regulation, then it's very right that we want to make it better, and we have a proposal here, but there are a number of amendments in this package that we have known for years that it doesn't work and it doesn't work well, but we are just discussing it, but we are just trying to solve it. I'm asking where we've been, what's happened all these years. In particular, I would like to refer to the section amending the Law on notaries, whose main line is that it seeks to remedy a decision of the Constitutional Court last year, which declared a certain provision of the law to be illegal. This is almost the illusion that we are living in a normally functioning rule of law, where, if a body determines something unconstitutional, then the answer is how to correct it. I'm telling you, he's almost giving me that illusion. I wish this were not the case, that many other constitutional decisions, which, in the same way, found a failure to comply with the Constitution, were not discussed before Parliament. I would like to mention here the subject that I had the pleasure of asking the Prime Minister last week, and this is the decision of the Constitutional Court on disabled pensioners, which is one and a half years old, and since then the proposal has not been submitted to Parliament. So, now that we are correcting the Constitutional Court decision on the formation and order of notary disciplinary courts, that's good, that's positive, that's to be supported, I'm just asking where the rest is, where is this, I'm sorry, maybe more human and more important proposal. The material talks about it again at the notary section that it is based on the practical experience of the Hungarian National notary Chamber, but in addition, I did not find any information in the presentation that this was otherwise in agreement with the professional organisations. I am not just talking about whether, at the starting point, at the problem point, they and, if so, how widely this type of proposal has come in, but whether the final result, the solutions proposed by the government, are in agreement with them, they have the support of professional organisations, and they also think that the problems raised either by them or by others are really good for them. In order not to be in a situation like a few weeks ago, a revised law adopted a few months ago had to be revised because it turned out that it was necessary, and it was not well prepared. Finally, I would like to bring here a point of reference only because of the subject matter, and this is the question of notaries and executive fees, which I know is not regulated by the law, but an IM regulation, but a number of signs, and this signal from notaries to us, show that, in particular, in this current economic situation, the fees are extremely high, very, very many stakeholders think twice that they will use or, at least, if they can do so, use a notary or an enforcer. Obviously, in many cases you can't think of two, because you have to be forced to turn a notary or enforcer into the process, but the fee increase was so high, they came into force from 1 July last year, if I remember correctly, that the notary fees in some categories have increased 3-4 times in practice. I would suggest that, if we are talking about notaries, we are talking about implementation, then perhaps the wallet should consider this review, perhaps even a temporary reduction in view of the epidemic. To sum up, we have a number of good points, a number of good proposals, but I am still waiting for the portfolio to answer the problems that have been raised. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I find that there has been much more of a procedural debate here, so we have heard speeches on the criticism of legislation, and my fellow Members have been less concerned with the content of the bill. I believe that this certainly says a lot and is justified. I may be mistaken, but I think that for the first time, Mr. Secretary of State is here in Parliament with a bill... [[Dr. Barnabás Hajas: Second time.]] Second. I'm sorry, I missed you. But obviously, Mr Secretary of State has been working in the Ministry of Justice for a long time, so he is part of this legislative process. At the same time, I think it is important to talk about these issues, and in case Mr. Secretary of State is now able to influence this type of legislative problem, which we do almost every time a salad law from the Ministry of Justice comes in, we will apply. And in particular, it is justified to talk about this in the case of such a bill because it really concerns issues that are of great interest to society. And unfortunately, we see a lot of social tragedies, crisis situations, a lot of people in debt traps. So it really affects a lot of people, and it triggers a lot of debate, and this system itself has a lot of right and reason to cause a lot of debate. My opposition fellow Members have said that the system of salad laws should be exceeded and that the opportunity should be given to debate and vote on serious issues separately, where appropriate. I would not agree to this, because there is obviously a very serious political consideration behind this, so it is not in any interest for a government with a two-thirds mandate to give the opposition this opportunity to support, where appropriate, the proposals it agrees with. At the same time, Mr Secretary, as I recall, you mentioned three times in your exposé the strengthening of public confidence as an important task. And if we are to compare the legislative changes that concern important social issues, among other things, and there is a real need to strengthen public confidence here, then we need to underline the criticisms that relate to the preparation of the bill much more seriously. And here not only this procedure itself, we can say that we have to mention the lack of professional discussions, but that we can see a lot of times and, by the way, this can be a frequent criticism to the Ministry of Justice of Justice of such conceptual backward faces. So when there is a major conceptual change, let's say, in the case of one of the laws, a change in 2015, a few years pass, where appropriate, five years, and they are retiring or starting legislation in another direction; this may not lead to strengthening public confidence. Similarly, as my fellow Members have said, it makes it very, very difficult for those affected to follow it. We can safely say that, even with the way the Ministry of Justice submitted this bill to Parliament, it was against the law, because it did not correspond specifically to the consultations provided for in the legislative law and other rules. Not even on kormany.hu. We have heard and my fellow Member Gyüre confirmed that he has done background research work on the preparation of the bill and here on the professional background, that, indeed, the involvement of stakeholders has been in some respects, let us say, in the case of executives, but at the same time social consultation itself, so from the other hand, through professional consultation and communication with professional organisations, it was not possible to feedback on individual problems. Thus, the bill was not specifically published, the justification was not published, so it did not have the opportunity, the possibility required by law, nor the possibility of a social debate that would otherwise give the opportunity to eliminate the errors which are infiltrated and which are visible here and there. It should also be said that this has already been referred to by my fellow Members, so I do not want to talk about this for a very long time, that there are indeed amendments of a kind that have little to do with each other. It does indeed concern eight legislative proposals, the Law on notaries, the service relationship of judicial staff on judicial enforcement, legal assistance, I do not mention, there are a lot of amendments in this proposal that do not match each other, so it does not necessarily warrant that this had to be brought into one law. [[11.40]] In the details, if you look at it, you can or could have very serious professional debates. Obviously, this is also the case, and when we have a law before us, we can also see from the Ministry of Justice that many of these various professional debates are no longer quoted because they are not open to the adoption of amendments by the Ministry. Although I see some codification errors in some places, we will send them to see if they are at least taken into account. If I tell you here, I'm afraid it won't, but if we send it, maybe at least the codification errors will be taken into account. But I'd like to draw attention to a few things. In part, Mr Csaba Gyüre has also referred to the fact that, in connection with the implementation or the auctioning of movable property, it is absolutely unacceptable that, if 35 percent of the value is not obtained, it is possible to obtain it at 1 percent, which is unacceptable. This is a very serious matter of principle, since it can be said that this allows for a sanctioning procedure, and it is certainly not in the interests of the enforcement seeker. It is very important that judicial enforcement cannot or may not aim at punishing the debtor, and the aim here may be to ensure that the applicant for enforcement is satisfied with his legitimate claim. So this alone makes it impossible for the LMP fraction to vote in favour of this legislation, this bill. We do not see the point of proposing amendments. Obviously, this was a serious decision on your part, but we just want to draw attention to the fact that we believe that this is unacceptable in itself. Similarly, various changes in the rules regarding the appointment of the executive have been mentioned in the law on judicial enforcement. Here we see that after a conceptual change in 2015, they return to one of those systems. On the one hand, it is safe to say that the legal environment will be a little more predictable for those affected, for their comfort. At the same time, I think that as a Member of Parliament it is not necessarily necessary to meet this need, but rather to maintain the possibility of stricter regulation, stricter standards and gradual control, feedback from the other side or from the stakeholders' side. This is in the interests of Hungarian society and Hungarian people, and this would also strengthen the public confidence that is really important, which is really important to strengthen, and Mr Secretary of State has repeatedly referred to this. Well, I do not wish to go into it in more detail, and my fellow Members have said a lot in the bill. I can take one more firm position on behalf of our group: in this form we will certainly reject this bill. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-06-03-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I am now giving the floor to the first independent Member who has applied for the speech; Mr János Volner is going to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I myself am not a lawyer, but there is an area of the salad law affected by the current bill, which I myself am deeply concerned with, and in which I have quite a lot of practical experience. On the one hand, I would like the Secretary of State's opinion on this and, on the other, I would like to ask that the things I have said be taken into account later. I am interested in the opinion of the Secretary of State in that he sees that this brings about a practical change in these problems, which I will mention to you. I am dealing with the issue of foreign exchange lenders and, in general, credit lenders quite a lot, and I see a lot of anomalies within the system, I stress, not as a lawyer, but I see a lot of people having problems. The first thing we have often seen is that the notary does not deny the issue of authentic instruments which would otherwise be found to be refused by the notary, since, where appropriate, one party suffers a unilateral legal disadvantage with this authentic instrument. However, since you yourself are financially involved in the issue of this authentic instrument, you are acting and, in practice, you are issuing authentic documents for your financial interests. For example, I will now give you a typical example of the loan-payers: the credit-payer arrives at the notary at the order of the bank, the notary issues him with an authentic instrument confirming it and having the debtor acknowledge that he owes, for example, HUF 20 million to the bank, but at the moment when the debtor signs it, there is no debt in his name. Then, when the signed document is returned to the bank, the loan will actually be paid out. My sense of law and my consultations with the lawyers confirm that this whole case is not necessarily all right here, because at the moment when the notary has certified the loan or the loan, sorry, this amount has not yet been received for its part. What I see is that most clients are trapped in a trap in this regard, because any appeal forum is tried by the notary's decision equivalent to the decision of the district court, but it is practically in a closed wall, although, in fact, according to the letter of the law I am talking about, it did not actually happen, the loan was not paid to the client at the time, and the notary has already paid it to it. What is even more interesting, however, is that the notary has an obligation to inform the party about the substance and the legal consequences of the transaction. I see the next problem here. However, I already know this part from the point of view of banking, and I am aware of the details of this. When the client goes to the notary, the notary should have said and included in writing the information on exactly what risks the client is taking, for example, with a foreign currency loan. A lot of people here, however, concentrate on exchange rate risk and generate exchange rate risk as one of the cancers of foreign exchange loans, but it is very important to see that the client has also taken on interest rate risks and these interest risks have appeared in a non-transparent way for the client. I have to say that many times we have seen a lot of court proceedings in this regard, and I have seen that the notary could not tell the court how exactly the interest rate risk arises, what it means to have an inter-bank interest, to which, for example, the interest on the credit product in question is linked. Technically, the client receives unfulfilled or inadequate information, his curiosity is virtually unsatisfied, as the notary himself was unaware of the risks of this credit product, where appropriate. I have to say that I see cases in a row where the notary couldn't draw attention to this risk element because he himself doesn't know this risk, and the clients keep losing the lawsuit. However, in this case, it can also be concluded that it is not an equal party when it comes to the client-bank relationship, and that no information was provided to the clients at the time of the loan, or that, in any case, the law on credit institutions also provides in detail that it would have been obliged to do so by the credit institution, or when the notary goes to the client. It is very important to avoid notaries. I've personally been to one of those places, and I have to say, I've encountered quite a lot of cases that have actually been committed by notaries in practice. I'll tell you in particular here, downtown, not far from here, I went to a notary's office. An unfortunate, old, fallen woman, who, after deduction by the independent bailiff, did not have enough money to make a living, but had enough money to pay for the various documents necessary for the opening of her trial, and to take it over with the notary, she should have paid for the photocopies here. He had already left the notary twice, because the notary simply told him it was a very simple lady who was not sure in the mazes of the law that he would simply not give her these documents; he literally refused twice. For the third time, I went as a Member of Parliament, and I did not wave my credentials, but I made my wish very clear and clear to the staff of the notary office, first to the secretary-general there, then to the notary herself, and then to the notary herself, and to my ears, they tried to discourage her from the intention of giving her the papers that should be submitted to the court proceedings which were due to expire shortly. In this case, too, I have seen notaries do this practically professionally for people in similar situations, and there really is no remedy for these people that would be quick to remedy similar problems. [[11.50]] Literally imagine this by going to the client, telling him that he has the 8,000 forints required for photocopies, the notary refuses to release photocopies, and the client is practically trapped in a trap. I would like to point out that there is a demonstrably continuing, business-like relationship between certain self-executors and certain notaries, and that in these independent bailiffs, quite a lot of debtors in particular disappear in a way that is otherwise not permissible. Turning to the independent bailiffs, I must say, Mr Secretary, that I see a very serious problem here. Of course, I am aware, as a politician, that this is an unpopular area, but the operation of this is necessary. But what I can see is that some independent bailiffs have committed crimes in trade for years. In particular, I met with a court enforcer where in one case it was possible for the foreign exchange taxpayer to win the case, and the court states that it is final because it has already occurred at second instance that the proceedings of the independent judicial enforcer were unlawful, and then, years later, we meet with the same independent court enforcer in another case, who has committed virtually the same lawlessness as before. In this case, the procedure is still under way, and in that particular case we are discussing with the head of the independent executive chamber in order to make rapid and effective decision-making. I ask the Secretary of State that we can expect progress from this current bill in these specific cases as well. I can see that the circumstances provided by the law have evolved in this context. I trust there will be a change in this area. We see a lot of cases where, ignoring legal deadlines, self-executors, obviously looking at the larger amount, sell the various properties of the clients, so that practically there is no longer much to do about it. There's a specific case where she's practically homeless. She's currently working as a school cleaning lady, and imagine that I'm also humanly shocked by these matters, because I know closely the parties that the headmistress has allowed the lady to live in the medical room temporarily. He literally sleeps on the bed at night and covers with a blanket so he doesn't have to spend his days on the street. In this case, too, it was established that the independent court executioner acted unlawfully. By which point the letter of the law would have reached the time when the courts would have made a decision on the matter, the apartment had already been practically sold, and I do not see the possibility that the original state could ever be restored. The apartment already has a new owner, he paid for it not as much as the apartment was worth. In these cases, too, I see that the system works so quickly and so quickly, grinding the lives and fate of people once and for all, that it is very difficult and I think it is impossible for a person with an intact soul to identify with. I see from this bill, in agreement with lawyers, that we can expect progress, at least some progress. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, and I will tell you in advance, I apologize, but I will have to go to an interview with the media in advance, so I cannot wait for his answer, but I will look back on your opinion that there is a change in this area. I would also ask you to be kind enough to forward what I have said to the authorities through the government apparatus. I think it is very important that we achieve results in these matters, and I consider it particularly important that my fellow Members get to know and absorb the direct experiences of people with similar fates from those involved. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are now two-minute and further speeches by Members. I'm asking if anyone wants to live with this. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the mark of Dr. Barnabas Hajas:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your comments and comments. Firstly, I would like to say that the logical interface of this bill is a question of disciplinary responsibility which can be demonstrated in relation to certain professions involved in the administration of justice. It appears that almost all the amending laws were in close connection with this. I would certainly like to respond to the fact that the 1% lowest selling price seems to have touched the honourable Members. It is important to see that there is currently no such lowest value, i.e. the property can be sold for 1 HUF as a result of the execution procedure. This is already higher in the case of a movable property, so we wanted to prevent it in any case, and we sought in the proposal not to have an element that would allow this to happen without a real threshold. It is important to mention briefly that all professional organisations have been consulted, such as the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Court Office, which, according to the law on the organisation and administration of the courts, gives an opinion after obtaining the opinion of the courts, the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries and the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court. So the necessary professional discussions have been carried out. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think that in this respect, the criticisms expressed in the context of the bill are typically both answerable to 1 percent and logical relations, and I have answered them myself. There are some issues that are not closely linked to the bill. Thus, on the one hand, the Member mentioned how welcome it is that, in order to remedy the default of the fundamental law, we have already amended, to the extent necessary, the legislation on notaries, while missing why we would not do so in other cases. I feel a little like a bunny in a joke, that if you have a hat, that's why you don't have a hat. Mr President, Congressman, you remember that, in my memory, during the two hours of the previous immediate questions and answers, Prime Minister, you promised that this would happen in a foreseeable time. I have nothing more to say than what the Prime Minister said. With regard to what Mr Volner has said or asked questions, I am afraid that, on the basis of simplified facts, there may be a misunderstanding that the inclusion of a unilateral commitment statement in the authentic instrument, the payment condition required by the credit institution, is not a legal requirement, without which the debtor would not receive from the credit institution the credit or loan requested by him. The disclosure of information to the client, including the description of the interest rate risk, would be less the task of the notary, but rather the credit institution under the law on credit to consumers. The notary helps the parties to exercise their rights, fulfil their obligations, ascertains the client's willingness to do business, then enters into a document of their declaration, thus reading the authentic instrument on the basis of the legal requirement, and the debtor may ask questions to both the notary and the representative of the credit institution. In any event, in the course of the enforcement procedure, it is possible for the debtor to appeal against each enforcement measure, to lodge an enforcement objection, and if the debtor disputes the legal basis for the claim, it may also bring proceedings for the termination and restriction of enforcement and for the invalidity of the contract. If, in the event of a real estate auction, the debtor has recourse and the auction was illegal, the court may decide to destroy the auction. I would also like to point out, on the basis of the suggestion made by the Member, that, by appearing as a suspension right in a self-standing or quasi-subsistence manner under certain criminal proceedings, the notaries, as well as in the context of the enforcement service law, are capable of increasing public confidence in the two professional orders, so that it does not become dependent on the act of external actors that the notary concerned or the executive concerned may continue to exercise his or her profession. [[12.00]] In this context, I am convinced that this is capable of manifesting a marked deterrent effect in the context of various disciplinary offences and other behaviours to be sanctioned. As Congressman Gyüre said, a significant disciplinary penalty of up to HUF 20 million is a powerful deterrent in itself. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-03-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Next up is the 1990 XCIII on levies. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The presentation submitted by our Fidesz colleagues Lajos Kósa and Katalin Novák and our colleague from Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP T/10724. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman, your time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-47	Mr. President. Dear House, The law we are about to amend is not new, nor is it launching a new process. Even before the 2010 years, MDF and KDNP initiated the abolition of the inheritance tax they called death tax on the grounds that, in fact, the mass of those otherwise ordinary people who, say, are faced with their parents dying, their apartment, which they paid to the OTP for a lifetime in installments, will be inherited, but the state says that before you take over your 40 million apartment somewhere in the Fékásmegyer, pay 8 million forints. And then the inheritance is not really a pleasure, because the vast majority of people don't have 8 million forints in cash in their accounts to pay for it, and actually raised a lot of difficulties, while people rightly said that it was a work of a lifetime, would like to leave something for their offspring, made it happen with taxed money. The then fiscal and financial policy did not accept this, so the socialist governments before 2010 rejected this, saying that this 18% is of a general nature and that revenue is necessary, and I do not know what else they said. But it didn't happen. In 2010, one of the first measures of the Fidesz-KDNP administration was to abolish the 18 per cent inheritance and gifting levy on the straight branch, which entered into force in August 2010, saying that we knew it, so we accepted what the KDNP represented, namely to eliminate it. Then, on 1 January 2013, the amendment to extend this straight line, i.e. the tax-free inheritance and gifting between the parent-child, to widows. Thus, if a spouse died, he could inherit or receive gifts from his father - in - law, mother - in - law, without 18 percent of his salary. Then, on 1 January 2014, we extended this to the spouses. So someone from his father-in-law, his mother-in-law, could inherit and receive gifts, or he could give gifts, or his mother-in-law, his father-in-law, could inherit that his spouse was alive, but for some reason the parents wanted to give him something. So we extended this to the spouse. In fact, the current proposal extends entirely to close family relationships in the common sense, because our proposal is to ensure that the succession and gifting of siblings are free of tax. So it didn't come from nothing, it was a very old effort, it had a very consistent tax policy and family policy considerations. We see that the budget impact of 3.5 billion, which we can calculate based on the PM's estimate, namely that this will remain in people's pockets, and that there will be so much less budgeting, and that in this time it will come in handy for the people, the budget will not be so deeply affected. At the same time, it is important for us to be one of the very important end points of a policy that wants family relationships to be free from the obligation to pay taxes. I would like to ask the fellow Members to support this proposal. I think that there are very few proposals that, in a social sense, do not actually have a character that would somehow be wrong, because it is a matter of intent. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, our proposal includes half-brothers, so if there is a joint parent, they will already be involved in the tax exemption and, of course, in the adoption of children. This is perfectly normal, because according to the Hungarian law, the fact of adoption automatically equalizes the relationship system in the family in a legal sense. So it did not occur to us that, in some way, this proposal should have been affected, it would not have been right. Thus, half-brothers and adopted children are included in this proposal. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-03-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask Secretary Norbert Izer that he wishes to comment on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to add a brief comment. As Mr President has summarized, since 2010, the scope of the exemption has been constantly expanding, and, in practice, in addition to siblings, the property movement of close relatives has become tax-free, as the Member has summarized, and since the current proposal is practically extending this exemption, it is practically the brothers and sisters that the movements of wealth between family members on the straight line and close relatives will be tax-free, and the government therefore supports the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-03-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Katalin Novák. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for the opportunity for me to join this motion. I will not repeat what you said before me, Mr. and Mr. Secretary of State; I would add family policy aspects, since it is no coincidence that we have tabled this amendment together with Members of Parliament.Since 2010, a family-friendly turn has taken place in Hungary and continues to happen. In 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP government was established, we decided to focus families on making decisions that would always be in the interests of families. The central principle of this family-friendly policy is freedom, freedom, freedom of movement and respect for privacy, personal decisions. This is what it is about, that we want every planned, every desired child to be born in Hungary, so that we can give every possible help to young people who are about to have children and to start a family, so that we can help Hungarian young people and Hungarian families to avoid any financial obstacles. This is also linked to the fact that when there is an intra-family wealth movement, when personal decisions are made within the family about who gets what, how they inherit, who gets what, how much, how they give, the state gets out of it, the more the state backs away from these personal family relationships, the more we extend the freedom here, and not least the savings for families, so let's not impose unnecessarily on families, and not impose on them any costs that we can spare them from. [[12.10]] In general, this is what our tax and contribution policies are all about, since the principle of family tax relief is also that those who start a family, who raise children, pay less public costs. The more children in Hungary, the less personal income tax or contributions are paid, this is what the family tax system is about, and this is what the current amendment relates to, since we now make not only the direct family members, but also the gifting and inheritance between brothers free of charge. I feel that this is a decision that will give us the opportunity to make even more freedom and make decisions for families and save them unnecessary expenses. This, therefore, fits closely with our family policy, and I believe that I can even say that we are filling a gap with it, or that we can now make a decision together to make brotherly relationships equal to straight family relations, which I think is a good thing, because if we have already given these opportunities between parents and children, since we have already made these decisions between the spouses, then let us also do so among the brothers. I am therefore asking everyone to support this amendment and to join the families in this matter together. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this bill. Since 2010, since there has been the possibility of a tax reduction within the family and the abolition of charges, we have welcomed all the steps that have been taken in this regard. Obviously, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary fully shares the fact that in Hungary the family is the foundation of society, the nation. It is very important that families in society remain united, and it is, as the author said, that in ancient times the grieving family members were often deeply shocked when they found out how much they would have to pay within a short period of time, and in addition to the fact that members of society considered this fundamentally unfair, they also found it outrageous that when they mourned the loss of one of their loved ones, in many cases there was a huge levy on the succession within the family. This has, in any case, greatly disturbed society's sense of justice and, therefore, any facilitation within it should be welcomed in any way. Jobbik therefore supported the elimination of this among direct family members, and it was incomprehensible why the brothers were left out of this, since the brothers were also part of the family, and in this case they were also part of the family, and it was completely unjustified that if the brother really inherits, because there are no descendants, and the inheritance itself remains in the family, but also in the gifting, that if we give gifts and they remain within the family, then why should we pay a fee. So this bill is indeed to be welcomed, and I think that everyone in Hungary who feels responsible for the family is in favour of family belonging; the Jobbik Hungary Movement certainly is. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, thank you for the opportunity to be the author of such an important bill. I think that this bill also fits into the family-friendly turnaround, the family-friendly governance that the national government has been pursuing for ten years, since 2010. Our aim is to continuously and gradually reduce the burden on families, increase support for families and strengthen Hungarian families. For us, family is an important value, the most natural human community, the foundation of social communities, a value-bearing, value-creating community. Since 2010, we have made a family-friendly turn in Hungarian politics, and we support families in both material and moral terms. It is important to note that even now, in the global crisis caused by the corona virus, the national government does not reduce support for families, but maintains the elements of the family protection action plan and provides additional benefits and opportunities for families. We believe in families, the power of family relations. The current bill also continues the work that KDNP started with the MDF in opposition, which was then translated into reality by the Fidesz-KDNP government in 2010, followed the words, and in 2010, one of the first symbolic decisions in the case of a straight line succession is the abolition of inheritance duty. Now that we are here before the day of national integration, it is important to mention that this was the other symbolic step after the 2010 change of government: one is the step of national reunification and the second is the exemption from inheritance duty. So in 2010, we took action. The inheritance tax exemption is now extended to a wider range of family relationships. The current bill would continue to extend the tax exemption for the gifting and inheritance of wealth to brotherly relations. Extending the inheritance tax exemption to the closest family relationships to which brothers belong is a moral obligation. With this step, we acknowledge and express family solidarity, love, and honor the will of the deceased family member, who would like to leave the work and wealth of his life to his brother. The bill states that in addition to the brother, the half brother and the adoptive brother are equally brothers. In our Christian Democratic view, it is wrong and unethical for the state to collect inheritance fees, to disturb the grief of the relatives by making the deceased family member the parent, spouse, brother's property by collecting inheritance fees. The new expansion of the inheritance tax exemption is due to the strong performance of the Hungarian economy, and represents respect and humility before the memory of the deceased, his will, and further strengthens the Hungarian families. The KDNP fraction therefore supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The keynote speech of the MSZP Group will follow. I've got two names on the monitor, but there's one name in the script. [[Attila Mesterházy presents two fingers.]] So there will be two names, yes, thank you, the house rule gives us the opportunity to present the group's position to two Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, who will be followed by Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman László Kács, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, They're talking about family support, and the truth is, you've seen it in this emergency, in an epidemic situation, because you seem to be in a dangerous place here, when... family support actually has two elements: one is credit, and the other is tax relief, and now you can lose your solvency and your job by someone who, let's say, has taken on a subsidised loan or can't take advantage of a tax reduction. So your family support is basically based on credit and tax relief, and we see, let's say, what an emergency is. I thought it was only important to mention this because every single comment was so pathetic, and now it was all about the strong Hungarian economy to reduce the burden on families, but I have to say, Madam Secretary, that if they did not have to pay 27 percent VAT to families, they would be even more happy than the inheritance tax or, let us say, not paying the gift levy. At the same time, with all kinds of patostic speeches, this may, in principle, be a Eligible proposal, since you are now actually closing a triangle. So far, if someone didn't want to pay a fee, but wanted to give it to his brother, donate it, or give it to his brother, play it over, let's say, some of his assets, then he had to give it to his parents first, and then they transferred it to the land office, they didn't have to pay a fee, and then, by the parent, they could just hand it over to the other brother; so you're going to end a bad practice. I say this not only because, as Lajos Kósa said, I no longer think that inheritance is a pleasure, because then one has lost one of his loved ones, but also because you are eliminating only one bad practice, so that the branch of inheritance or of giving is straight and that the triangle is closed, brother can also give to the brother. [[12.20]] This may otherwise be eligible, but in a less pathetic way, I can only say this, less so, I am sorry, I was just trying to listen, but I will listen to this question in his speech as if it were the last problem for families. There are 428,000 unemployed people in Hungary today, according to you. Today, this is a bigger problem for families than the fact that gifting costs or does not cost taxes. A 27 - percent tax is paid by families, no matter how much extra work is ordered for those who go to work. I think that these measures are fundamentally more damaging to families, especially if we are to put aside the fact that you are only supporting families if you take credit or if you are able to work, you can benefit from a tax reduction. Besides that, considering that this was not basically the last thorn in the bottom of the family, which you just pulled out, it hurts them much more than the high VAT, it hurts them so much more than all the overwork, it hurts so much more that you don't support them, but you want to hire loans with them, along with, once again, it only eliminates a bad practice where they have to round the donation, they have to round the assets so that they don't have to pay taxes. This would be eligible if appropriate. One more thing worth remembering here. Since we generally see that fidesz politicians are usually surrounded by an economic lunar yard that you don't like to talk about, and we talk about them a lot, there is one thing that must be said to the record, if nothing else. When you see that you're making something easier, you always try to look behind it and see what individual economic intentions can be behind it. In this case, it is important to say that we have, unfortunately, much more experience with you than we have any illusions left, who you want good for and who you don't want. You're usually doing the right thing for yourself. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy will continue the keynote speech of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Nacsa spoke about what a symbolic step it was, and he immediately declared the abolition of the inheritance fee as a symbolic step, such as the granting of dual citizenship to Hungarians across the border. As a left-wing politician, I wouldn't put an equality mark between the two, but it's a fact and it's true that this proposal is symbolic, and it really fits in with what you do and what you think of social policy. This proposal, as well as their previous proposal, is basically a major step forward and opportunity for richer families. I think it is worth talking about this, even if, of course, in a different approach, which my fellow Member László Szakács has already talked about, this could be a Eligible proposal, but it is worth saying once that those who are very rich are there a serious opportunity. In a gypsy family in Borsodi or, where appropriate, in a poor family, this does not mean much, because there is nothing for children to inherit, and there is nothing for relatives to inherit. That is why this step really fits into the family policy and social policy agenda that you are applying. I usually call this a perverted social policy, because in general, they think that prosperity will flow down to the lower, so to speak, existentially lower sections of society, so it is enough to support rich, wealthy people. This approach is likely to be found in this measure, as you have said, that it is your moral duty to take this step as a KDNP politician. I think you guys would have a lot more moral obligations. To say one thing, for example, it would be worth helping people who have lost their homes, decriminalizing the homeless, eliminating hunger in Hungary, making the quality of education as a mobility option, making it of the right quality, or developing health care to a similar extent, or even raising the family allowance. So there would be a lot of tasks here, my fellow Member, before you, which would indeed be a moral duty, that could indeed come from a Christian Democratic approach, but you will save them. You know, the one sentence you said, I'd add an adjective. You said that it was a family-friendly government, and I would say that it was a family-friendly government, because we see that you are doing everything you can, even at the legislative level, so that you can play as much money as possible for yourself, for your own family, for your friends, for your friends, for your oligarchs, for your namesake, and for this to be a more favourable legal environment. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2020-06-03-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I do not want you to feel or not know that, when you are closely aligned with your own family policy, in this context, you do not know why your referral in this form is unacceptable from the Democratic Coalition. I think, in general, it is safe to say that there is a saying that if the Greeks bring gifts, it must be handled with caution. Well, you've arrived here with a gift, which, in any case, must be seen with doubt. I understand the intentions you're making. If I can go any further with one word, then the Ripper family, and then you can name who the real winners are. Why do I say that? 'Cause your family policy is really about not having anything for the few and nothing for the others. Therefore, if you want to do good, and indeed it is not a hypocrite that you say or want to do so, then I would respectfully suggest that the threshold be proposed in line with the previous position of Fidesz. Value limit over which you have to pay 18 percent and below. If you recall it and you were happy to refer to the MDF, the MDF had a threshold of HUF 18 million and Fidesz had HUF 25 million at the time of the debate. Therefore, I think that if you want to build or create tax-free family relationships in this use of words, as our fellow Member Kósa said, and contribute to the family-friendly turnaround, but in the meantime, do not forget the solidarity, otherwise it doesn't matter how wealth has been made, although it is probably worth mentioning in every such legislation how the method of wealthing has happened, but if it has happened, it doesn't exempt those to whom it has happened, but who you really want to help, families, then a threshold must be introduced. That this is 50 or 100 million forints, I would be happy to ask the Ministry of Finance how they did the calculations, as I see that no impact assessment has been assigned to the law, while the loss of a budget of HUF 3.5 billion was made by the author. I would be happy if you could explain what this HUF 3.5 billion was made of, how it was created, and not who it affects, but what it was based on. I suggest that if you want to deal with the reduction of the burden of heirs in substance, then let the authors create the conditions for really helping them and, in any case, for those who are eligible, I might say, an unexpected inheritance can put you in a very difficult position through such an obligation. [[12.30]] But where there is a financial background, and since the value of this is much higher, which appears in this way, there is therefore no justification for this exemption. So I respectfully ask what the government is proposing, what threshold will be introduced, so that otherwise there will be no material loss, and in the meantime, among the family policy subsidies that the government could take, there may be more important or another area. I must certainly mention here that if you are willing to make such a loss, or rather I say that you would finally support families living in a very difficult period from the budget, especially where you have lost your job, there is where you both have lost your job in these months, where, as one of these important steps, the family allowance should be doubled, and pensioners should be assisted with one-off support even if they do not see a substantial pension increase. So in conclusion, I ask what threshold will help us not only to help wealthy families, but not only to create a law for their own good. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Katalin Novak. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I see that Congressman Cook has already said his own comment and left, so he doesn't want to know how there is a reaction. There is, because I think it would be a long time to really talk about what the left-wing family policy was and what the current family policy is. I don't know what leads a congressman to give us lessons after the left-wing government took away family home support after he deprived them of family tax relief, that he wanted to tax the family allowance, that he took away the 13th month pension, just to give a few examples. However, if the Member is already talking about it, and if he no longer listens to the answer given to him, it is also a cultural question, then for the record's sake, I will also say that the difference between credit and support may be worth learning. For example, when we give a CSOK, so we don't give back support for home creation, it's not a loan, it's a grant. In baby shower support, if young people have children, as planned, we always say so, so we recommend that they take this opportunity, and then they do not have to repay the baby shower in whole or in part. We release a significant portion of the mortgage when a brother arrives in the family, and we also release the student loan. So, on the contrary, we do not encourage them to borrow; we also provide subsidised, reduced-interest loans, but we also provide significant amounts of non-refundable aid. But I have not yet talked about free children's meals or the possibility of the Erzsébet camps, the promotion of car shopping for large families, just to list some elements of Hungarian family policy. So I regret that there are those who cannot support such a proposal; when they could support Hungarian families with at least such decisions, they do not do so.
u2020-06-03-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Attila Mesterházy, from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-65	[[The congressman's not talking to his mic.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Tell your Fidesz colleagues not to plan the meeting of the TAB during a plenary session, because then also Congressman Chef...
u2020-06-03-66	Congressman, I'm sorry, but your microphone. [[Attila Mesterházy adjusts his microphone.]] And then we'll start over for two minutes.
u2020-06-03-67	So maybe you can hear what I'm saying.
u2020-06-03-68	Yeah.
u2020-06-03-69	So, Congresswoman, tell your Fidesz colleagues not to organise the TAB meeting during a plenary session, which is a member of my fellow Member, László Szakács, and which just started its meeting nine minutes ago. So in Hungarian, when a committee meeting is in agreement with the plenary and a Member wants to fulfill his duty, it is probably difficult to coordinate this. [[Katalin Novak intervenes.]] I listened, Congresswoman. Press a button, and I'll listen to what you're saying again. [[Lajos Kósa: Is it just the two of you or the three of you? The president's ringing the bell.]] I can react to that again. Congressman Kósa, I understand that you like this proposal. If my mother were as big an entrepreneur as yours, then I would certainly be very, very happy to be able to make such a fortune. I hope in a hundred years there will be no misunderstanding. Our proposal was that we think your proposal is good for richer families. You have only listed proposals, or the vast majority of them have been social policy that you do not want to give anything to poor families. Tax relief does not mean anything to a family where there is no work, if any, or where it has a low salary. I think my fellow Member Varju has made a very good suggestion: bring in either a single-track entry or a threshold to say that the person who has billions does not have that, because he has the money to pay for it, and the average family gets this opportunity. Then I will say that you are absolutely right. But the fact that Lőrinc Mészáros' family still doesn't have to pay taxes on the money he took from the taxpayers, I think it's outrageous, Congresswoman. Don't come here and tell us you're handing us out, and you're always pissing off left-wing representatives from moral heights. Indeed, our family policy was for a different purpose, the smaller families, the support of everyone, not the support of the privileged few. What you're doing is about the privileged few, Congresswoman. So that's why I think it's worth taking better care of when... let me ask you, Congresswoman, because so many times they tell me that they've introduced the 14th month pension to pensioners? Because it was your election promise. Please answer me. When will there be a 14th month pension in Hungary? Fidesz program, election promise. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-70	Thank you very much. From Jobbik, Mr.Dániel Z. Carpathian is next.
u2020-06-03-71	Mr President, Dear House, I am one of those who have been able to and are able to support all the sane family policy measures of the government. However, I would urge my fellow members of the Government to be modest, because if there is anyone in this House who is entitled to complain that they are not responding to him, they will not wait for the reaction and, if necessary, will not be praised for an answer, let us say in demographic circles, then I am the most active opposition representative. I therefore do not accept lectures from those who, in a condescending, flugma, with large vests in life, refuse to engage in meaningful professional dialogue with opposition representatives, kicking off constructive opposition proposals in a clean Bolshevik way. My request is that if we talk about pro-government, government family policy, let's talk, let's praise the useful parts of it, but in the middle of a demographic emergency age, Madam Secretary, which is linked to your name now more than ten years later, they have no reason to be proud. In a pure neoliberal way, there are no messages for several social groups. You don't have a public housing program, you don't say a word to the people living in the apartments, under your government there have been more than ten thousand evictions in Hungary, families raising children are the victims. Demographic goals are also affected by what has happened. You've taken away the state's support for housing savings. Shame and shame! If we are to be positive, we must say that, of course, we should recognise what is good, and let it be so, but rather, we should support the commitment of the first and second children with more instruments. In the case of CSOK, it is not necessarily only with a preferential loan, but also with the expansion of the subsidy volume. I have read the Democratic editorial and the statements of the Secretary of State that they have finally found two months of luck, where the number of children's sacrifices has increased compared to the previous year, and I am very pleased about that, but, unfortunately, with the data of the other months, there is no positive shift on this issue in terms of any meaningful demographic indicators. As long as this demographic emergency age persists, no government can be given an "A" certificate. Thank you.
u2020-06-03-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before speaking to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa for the last two minutes, I would like to ask Mrs Katalin Novák and Mr Lajos Kósa to press their two-minute button for a proper speech because it is possible to speak again, but a two-minute speech is only possible after the next round. I would like to speak again to Mrs Katalin Novák. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I need two minutes!]] I'm sorry. Nacsa Lawrence for two minutes!
u2020-06-03-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congressman Attila Mesterházy was right in the first half of the sentence that your family support system was different: it was smaller. The sentence is valid so far. In 2010, the last budget year adopted by you was 960 billion HUF for the families, which is already over HUF 2200 billion this year. This is not a loan, honourable Members, but a family support system. Speaking of loans, Mr Szakács, let us add that you have driven Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans, rather than talk about it. [[12.40]] I did not say that this law or that law was equivalent to the law of national unity or national unity in 2010, but when you talk about national unity, we talk about it out of national consciousness, and you talk about national belongings out of guilt, so we don't accept lectures in this. You have taken away a significant part of the family support, and yes, what you said, we are dealing with the Hungarian families. If that is what you mean by your own family, then we are dealing with Hungarian families, we want to improve the situation of Hungarian families, we want to improve the situation of all Hungarian families, and the measures and figures of the past years show that this has been successful, everyone could take a step forward, some people who have already made a small income could take more steps by extending the family tax reduction. We do not say that we are where we want to be, but we are on a very, very good path, and we have gone far beyond the petty and austerity policy that you, by the way, represented before 2010. Congressman, just look at this, these two numbers, the 960 billion and the 2200 billion. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Karpa, that it was unnecessary for you to be offended, that no one told you why he had left the room. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: I am not offended, I just said it for the sake of fairness. No, I'm not offended.]] Or why you didn't wait for the answer, it was for Congressman Cook. And I would say to Congressman Varju that you were in the government, that you could have taken these measures that you said you didn't do. They didn't do it! The reason why we had to start this series of measures in 2010 was because you did not do this, which my colleague Lajos Kósa spoke about. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-74	Thank you very much. However, Congressman László Varju also checked in for two minutes, and it relates to his first rounds, so it is up to Mr László Varju. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-75	Thank you very much. We can easily go through the debate on family policy on this subject, but I would be a little more restrained, and I would indeed recommend this to the congresswoman and her fellow Member, because the family policy that you are talking about has not been built in the framework of it and in the last year, a total of 10,000 apartments have not been built, while what you condemn, when the masses of people could believe and believe that this country is developing, more than 40,000 building permits have been issued. This is what you destroyed in 2010 and then started to build a system in which the few of you who are close to you, whom you specifically highlight, receive support, and whether we now call it a levy or not, the point is that you all, many of you, who in this sense cannot have access to state aid or help, then you leave them on the side of the road, so you have to account for it in ten years. That is why I think it is very justified, and yes, in the debate that Mr Nacsa Lőrinc referred to, it was not established there because otherwise there was no agreement on the threshold and you also debated it. Now it is time for a law in which you could take at least one step towards smaller, poorer families, to improve their opportunities, then do so by providing them with opportunities not only to support the rich, but, for example, a significant increase in the family allowance, but it is worth introducing the threshold for this law. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members that, although the general debate gives us the opportunity to debate on a larger, more extensive content and contextal basis, we should preferably stick to the Law on Charges. Accordingly, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is now coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-77	Mr President, Dear House, I will try to reassure everyone, I will not take advantage of the very generous time frame, because I will certainly not talk about amendments to the various charges for 15 minutes, and I do not wish to take this debate in an incorrect and exclusive manner, but I must respond to what has been said. When I said that this government is carrying out chemically neoliberal economic policies, I have not only stated something, I am trying to support it, and that it does not seem to be a blood steamy opposition yelling, we must talk about concrete things regarding the data supporting this, which, by the way, confirm that yes, with tax amendments and other amendments are also favourable to many social groups in Hungary, but not to those who are most in need in the case. The reason why I am surprised at the speeches on generous family policy is because some of them, I say it again, are true and I do not dispute them, but the same during the government leaves hundreds of thousands of people, hundreds of thousands of our newly unemployed compatriots without any financial care. So the reason I don't understand the smell of success propaganda is because you leave hundreds of thousands literally on the side of the road, and basically half of the unemployed are not entitled to financial assistance at the moment because of your narrowing terms, not even 90 days. We see that I do not want to take this topic to the Calvary of foreign exchange credentials, but all of their discounts typically fall from the upper middle class to the highest level, and typically those who are left out of these blessings, our fellow countrymen who are in a typical Hungarian living situation or who are struggling with success, who need a rental, an affordable apartment, so that they can even collect and increase assets, for which they can then, where appropriate, have a family debate at the table. I miss this, and although, once again, I support most of the above-mentioned family policy measures naturally, I look at everything from a demographic perspective, and that is all that matters to me in such decisions, I see that it is quite simply impossible for this government to issue an exemplary certificate here. We did not get that far in demographic debates, so that this government could talk about what Hungarian reality is, because the number of marriages is not, according to the profession, a demographic indicator. I am very pleased that the number of these is increasing, typically in order to make it easier for those affected to benefit from the government's truly generous family policy blessings and measures in some areas, but this does not mean that the number of children born has shown any leaps and increases in recent years. We are aware of the conditions affecting the number of deaths, which are influenced by the annual flu season and now by the special epidemiological circumstances, and the fertility index, which was in a disastrously deep situation in the area of 2010, was fortunately started to grow, but then there was also a halt and a slow decline. I hope that we can stay at the halt stage now, and there will be no further decline, but if we look at the number of years when, let's say, the number of live births was under 90,000, and when these years are falling, a lot of opposition fellows say that the government of Fidesz-KDNP should be held responsible for this, because they are exclusively for his period. I am trying to be more professional, professional, and I am not incorrigible, because I see that the number of women of childbearing age is so low and shows such a decrease that you cannot expect any government performance to, say, push the number of live births above 110 thousand a year, as predicted by the Hungarian National Bank, but I do miss the effort. Once again, a lease program with a public background, the discount of the people living in the apartments, so the treatment of typical Hungarian living conditions, the management of the Airbnb price drive effect, which was not understood by this government, XXI. 19th century problems. He didn't have any solutions in the first century. And, of course, let us change the charges in a positive direction, and allow families to make it easier for these economic processes to happen, but in the meantime, fellow Members, the Hungarian reality will come to light, and, in the context of the, Trianon 100, you too would have a dog's duty to face up to this madness, not to write it out to the Democrat in the editorial like András Bencsik, that Hungary is already among the growing nations. What are we talking about while we're down a small town a year? Come back from your false reality, let's talk about obsceneity, and we will support you in all your improved, truly honest ideas. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-03-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am giving the opportunity to speak again to Congresswoman Katalin Novak. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I also believe that the best way to do this is not to engage in a multi-hour debate on family policy, and Mr Z. Kárpat knows this, and I am therefore surprised by the reaction he intended for me. I've been here every time you could argue with me, and I've been available for every professional debate... [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: I didn't mean for you, Madam Secretary.]] That's what he was talking to me about in person. I am only saying this because this has been the case, and it will be the case in the future, and I feel that we can bravely engage in any such debate, because I am convinced that family policies such as those which have been in Hungary since 2010 have not yet been conducted by any governments prior to this, which would have supported families to such an extent. [[12.50]] I would also like to refer back to the fact that if we look back on the budget for 2010 at the time, we will now be able to spend HUF 2300 billion on supporting families next year, compared to HUF 960 billion. It's an investment. Even if we look at it as a proportion of GDP compared to the performance of the economy, this is still outstanding at international level. So I believe that this is an area on which we devote a great deal of energy and investment to our strength, and I believe that we are doing this the right way, because we have no other options and no obligation than to invest in the future. Therefore, we will continue to invest in the unborn children and in the founding of young people's families and children. The fact that you can support us in this, or not, is a different question, we have experienced several times that we have not. Just so that, at some points, I do not think that the debate should be pushed forward, let the argument be made on the other side, if you have raised these points not by us, I would stress that this is not what we were talking about - you have agreed, for example, to whom these subsidies are due, and I would not like us to deceive anyone here by claiming that this is a distinction between the poor and the rich. It's not like that. If congressmen imagine a situation where, say, a young couple starts living together, decide that they want to live together, connect their lives, want a family, and receive HUF 10 million without any financial conditions thanks to baby shower support, all free of interest, so that if they take on this baby shower allowance or even take on during pregnancy, then they do not have to pay a penny of this money or pay interest, nor do they have to pay back the capital; we advance this by providing children with free children's meals in accordance with their own ideas, then this amount will remain with them, plus they will receive HUF 10 million to create a home for themselves; that is no longer a sum to pay back 20 million forints; that we provide children with free children's meals by providing free textbooks to families, that they have Elizabeth camps, they do not tell me that they will make any difference between the poor and the rich ones at any level. This is a deceiving of the Hungarian people. I don't think that's necessary. We're trying to help every family. It is true that we do not think of taking it away from someone and giving it to someone else, but of trying to help as many people as possible to move one step at a time. It is also true that we want to help everyone in Hungary to support their family from decent work. This is also a fact, and it is true that we have tried to give back respect for the work and to keep it in the future. These are the foundations of our family policy and our economic policy, so I think it is worth talking about. But I also suggest that, with Mr President's warnings in mind, we return to the original debate and continue with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Szakács is also coming out of the MSZP Group again. Here you go. [[Lajos Kósa: Has the TAB come to an end?]]
u2020-06-03-81	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer your question right away, or, I don't know, I heard it from Mr Kósa - yes, the meeting of the Legislative Committee is over. I heard about the reprimand. This, I think, is not a question of culture, or a question of working culture, that one is taking part in the meeting of the committee that he was brought into. By the way, there, much less smeared than this tax exemption, a very symbolic case was discussed by the Legislative Committee, which was nothing more than the political declaration by you, which you have just presented, on the 100th anniversary of Trianon's 100th anniversary of the protection of national identity. I believe that it was important for me to take part in this meeting, which is why I left the Chamber. I understand the reprimand, but perhaps you think it's a cultural difference between me and you, perhaps I can ask for it. In addition, my opinion did not change during the debate, with the belief that I could distinguish the credit from the aid. That's what I'm saying, because I can't quote what you're giving to families, so why do commercial banks give it to you? Commercial banks give the CSOK, there you can claim, assess the debtor's income situation, assess the debtor's financial position. Then why is this happening? I think these differences are clearly there, with you knowing exactly as well as I do that family policy is based on tax incentives and loans, a family support policy that a lot of people can't use. You know who can't use it? Poor people who can't take advantage of tax breaks can't take credit, can't buy a car for seven people. That's the difference between us thinking. I think that this difference remains today, but I expected a much less smearful debate here on the levy, by the way. As I was saying, you're closing a triangle, eliminating a legal situation, which, by the way, has been largely or entirely bypassed. You did it, but not in one step, but in two steps. Now it's going to be such a patous debate, another one because it's going to the committee meeting, where, by the way, the committee has also discussed the political statement to be adopted at tomorrow's memorial, and I don't think that makes any sense. This doesn't make any sense here, along with continuing to maintain my position that if there is a gift from one party to the other, it should only be examined that there is a gifting or a playover. And, yes, we have more experience than we have any illusion left. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of a round of speakers. I'm asking you, can I have a two-minute speech? [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Here's the next round. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group.
u2020-06-03-83	Thank you very much. Please, Congressman Cook, do not leave the room, because cultural differences may turn up again. [[Dr. László Kács takes a seat next to Attila Mesterházy. Defiance.]] Let me reflect on some of the comments made in the debate. My fellow Member Nacsa said that we support the Trianon and the cross-border case out of guilt. My honourable fellow Member, if we have to go into this debate, it will lead us very far, so I would like to conclude briefly: we do not have a piece of voters across the border, so if someone's support in this respect is genuine and uninterested, it is support for the MSZP, because if we support it, if not, we have zero voters across the border. Nevertheless, we do support it, and even imagine, Mr President, that we also had the courage to apologize for the wrong political choices. I haven't seen that from you guys. The second question is that you very much emphasized that you support the Hungarian families. I need you to help me out and who else you can support. Because I said that my own family-friendly government would stop this statement, but you said that you only and only the Hungarian families. Tell me what the definition of the Hungarian family is, if you have stressed it so much, because then there are non-Hungarian families who live here in Hungary or I don't know, and they don't want to support them, or they don't think people from across the border are Hungarian, I don't know, but help me to understand the definition. Indeed, it is true that the nominal value of 2,200 or 2,300 billion is certainly much more than 960 billion, and I think it is a pleasure, and there should be no misunderstanding. So it is always a good thing to spend more money on an important social policy goal, even if it is necessary to add that two years are difficult to compare. You are very enthusiastic and often using 2010 as a reference point, while everyone knows that Hungary was after an economic crisis at the time. So if we look at how much they spent in 2011, 2012 and 2013, you couldn't spend as much either, because the country had a different economic reality and budgetary reality. It is likely to say much more, for example, about the size of welfare expenditure in terms of GDP. For example, in last year's budget, you spent less on welfare expenditure compared to GDP than in the previous year, 2018. They are now spending something higher than last year, but this is certainly justified by the crisis. So I think it's worth using statistics that show real processes, not comparing apples to pears, while we both know they're fruit. I also read many studies, I try to find out that these family policy measures are accepted by the profession, let us say, and not so long ago I have read the summary report of a civil society organisation, where perhaps in some form the conclusion was that experts urge the government, while acknowledging that there are steps that are useful, I add good, I acknowledge this, however they said that thought through, comprehensive and detailed strategies are being urged by researchers instead of the current diminutive family policy steps. That was one of their claims. [[13.00]] The other is that it is also important to ask how effective this HUF 2200-2300 billion is, how targeted it is, how effective it is spent, because at a budget resource, it is not just a measure of how much we spend on it, but how it is used. Dániel Z. Kárpát has already partly touched on this question: if I remember correctly, the number of Hungarian births has decreased since 1981, and we cannot achieve the desired fertility rate. Although you celebrated last year that this increased compared to previous years, which was a positive thing, and everyone was happy about it, only according to the Statistical Office, compared to 11 months of last year, this fertility rate has now fallen again compared to last year, and it is far from achieving, of course, what would have been desired. So I think that it is worth always analyzing László Varju about impact assessments, I think it is right, and not only should an impact assessment be carried out in advance, but it is also worth looking at the effectiveness of a given policy step or a government measure, and it seems that these steps, however much they spend on it, have not produced the desired results that we would all welcome. No one has said, Congresswoman, that the Elizabeth Camp makes a distinction between the poor child and the rich child. Just to make a detour, you said that now there are Elizabeth camps. You know, they used to be, but that's not what they were called. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Pioneer!]] It wasn't called a pioneer camp, my fellow Member Nacsa, although I was no longer a KIS member, unlike your Prime Minister. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] So, therefore, it was not a pioneer camp, it was a youth camp, imagine, my fellow Member Nacsa, a youth camp, a children's camp where the children of poor families could come. You know, Congressman Nacsa, there were children who hadn't seen the Balaton in Zánka, and when they went into the bathroom, they were surprised that it existed, because they were washing out of the pool at home. Now, this is the kind of family that we've organized for the children of. I dared to tell you because I was the Secretary of State who opened these camps every year because we thought these were right and good initiatives. And I also think about the Erzsébet Camp, so that there should be no misunderstanding, but let's not pretend that you could make it all up, and the world would have started every time there was a Fidesz government, when it wasn't, then the world would have ended. It's like heaven and hell, right? When you are, there is always a heaven in Hungary, when everyone else governs, and then immediately hell comes for Hungary. You said we didn't support your proposals. When I think back, I find it difficult to mention a proposal that our government has made, and you would have supported it. I don't know, I look at my fellow Member, László Varju, but I think they should cast a curse on us in quotes in which you have at least been at the forefront. I believe that Fidesz has supported almost nothing in recent times, and it is also true that none of the current opposition proposals are almost supportive. So you're talking like you're just waiting here for a good proposal to come along, and then we can run along the popcorn field together, because it's good that the opposition has some good suggestions. You will wipe out any constructive proposals, even if you know, if necessary, that they are technically sound. The other is that the subsidies have increased. Indeed, Madam Secretary, prices have only increased. So today, unfortunately, there is a price increase that simply needs to be compensated logically in some way, because otherwise it is really difficult for families to start their lives, and I think it is important to take these things into account. Nevertheless, I continue to believe that your actions are much more for the richer families, much more for the privileged few than for the poor or the families living in extreme poverty, and this was indeed a significant difference between your family policy and our family policy. I fully understand that there is an eternal disagreement in this, perhaps that is okay, by the way, but then you will accept that we see this from these benches as opposition representatives, as you, who is otherwise responsible for this policy. Of course, you see the results of your own work, I probably always see my own work more positively than many who watch what I do. So in Hungarian, I think you should leave this review to us so that we can do this. He told us how to imagine a young couple starting a life, buying an apartment and starting a family. I'm just kidding, Madam Secretary, you don't have to imagine this because I did it, I have a wife and two kids, we were a young couple, we didn't just imagine it, we did it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is up to Mrs Katalin Novák, also to repeat her speech. I'll wait for him to put his microphone on. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-85	Mr. President. However, we cannot keep the warnings, so we have agreed to this debate, and I see that, although we have not generated this debate, we have not initiated it, and they resent it when we say our position. I'm gonna tell you, and I'm gonna say it again, if I have to, and if I have to confront what we think about this case, we're gonna do it a hundred times, a thousand times. I think it is good for us to be able to have a meaningful debate on important issues, so I am in front of it. I would reply to Mr Cook, however, that I do not think there are two of you in your group. So if you'd given your time on the one hand, that you can and you can do your job, I think you can do that, and on the other hand, if you'd said that after you've given me your words and specifically addressed me, that you're going to have to leave, of course, then I'll accept that and accept it. It's weird to me that someone's gonna talk to each other and then leave for whatever reason, and they're not gonna talk about it at all. I maintain that it is indeed a cultural question, how we speak to each other, and if we specifically address him, make criticisms and give him an answer, I think it is worth listening to afterwards. So that's all I've said, and that's what I'm saying. As regards the content of their comments on family policy, none of them react in some strange way, neither of them says that they are correct in our claim that you have abolished the family tax relief and that only a fraction of them have been retained, the family tax relief of one and two children has been abolished. You did not respond in any of your speeches to the fact that you were right about the termination of the home creation programme, the Socpol, they took it away, they took it away, and you were right about wanting to tax the family allowance, and you are right about the termination of the 13th month pension. Weirdly, there's no response or reaction to these. These are allegations, factual statements, that was true, we all know that, Hungarian people know that. Speaking of demographic indicators, which I think is very important and good that we can talk about, this is a very important issue, and we ourselves are making this a key point in our governance, how we can somehow come to the end of the demographic crisis that has been affecting Hungary since 1981. In 2011, there was the lowest desire for children in Hungary, 1,23. This was 2011, and I'll say it again, so you can see when the number of marriages decreased by 23 percent between 2002 and 2010. There was a constant decrease in the childbearing mood. So, unfortunately, a very negative, not future demographic trend developed then, and young people lost hope in the future, were afraid to start a family, were afraid to have children, were afraid to have new children, we experienced this. And by all means, we try to change that, by all means, to help these young people, by whatever means possible, we try to help them. The fact that the number of marriages has been at an unprecedented peak for 40 years, the fact that all the demographic indicators have changed in a positive direction, the fact that the desire to have children after the stagnation seems to have improved again, these are all positive results, and I think they should be acknowledged at least factually, this is true, and this is shown by statistical data. I also add that I am an economist, I am always careful when we talk about trends, that long-term conclusions on demography cannot be drawn on the basis of monthly data. We always say that we carefully look at these signs, which appear to be trendy, and see if they will. I think it's in everyone's best interest. It is in our best interest that young people once again have the courage to start a family, whether young or early, in their early 20's. To live in their own homes, to wait for their children in their own homes, to grow up there, I think these are goals that we could all agree on and for which we could work together. In any case, that is what we are doing, and that is why we have introduced the most diverse forms of family support. [[13.10]] Congressman Mesterházy may have misunderstood my words. I didn't say that we started the Elizabeth camps; it could be in the form it is now, but it didn't have any history. I have merely listed a number of examples that I would not like to repeat now, which are available to everyone. And I continue to maintain that it is a good thing that a child today gets four meals free of charge in the nursery, three times in kindergarten, and every child in school can eat free of charge, and this helps the poor in particular. The fact that all children receive textbooks free of charge is again something that helps a poor family more than a richer family. The fact that young people are helped regardless of the financial situation, let us say, to create homes, to help them to start their lives together with baby shower support, regardless of the financial situation, helps a poorer family as much as a richer family. And there really are many philosophical, many political, many different attitudes between us, that is true, and that will always be the case. One of these is that we view work as a basis, we want people to work, and we also give them the opportunity to do so. That is true, and it will continue to be so in the future, I stress. Which means that we should imagine or not imagine it, Mr Mesterházy: I myself gave birth to three children, and I gave birth to these children in 2004, 2006 and 2008. Believe me, I know the family policy of that time. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Attila Mesterházy will also be heard again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Well, the fact that we resent you telling us what you think is a rather strange statement in such a two-thirds legislative process. However, I have already faced the fact that my Fidesz fellow Member asked at a committee meeting why he should listen to what I am saying. On the other hand, I have seen it less so that we would have asked you here in a debate in Parliament to give your opinion. That's because you don't give your opinion. Madam Secretary of State may indeed be a refreshing exception, and I could even say another colleague, who would be a refreshing exception, but do you know how the debates go here? The author comes in, tells us about the keynote speeches, and at the very end, the Secretary of State says something and does not take part in the debate. By the way, let me say this to your colleague, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, who is also an exception to this, who is involved in the debates. So in Hungarian: accusing us that it bothers you to tell us what you think, well, I wish you would always tell us, because then we could indeed have a sensible debate in the House on something that is important to everyone. The second is that he says that the number of marriages has increased, and what a fantastic thing that is. I want you to understand that we don't think that's the important question. The important question is how many children are born, and it is not that you are now born in a marriage in a partnership. In our view, in our approach, it is also a family where there is no marriage paper, but they simply believe that people live together, but they do not bind their lives to each other on such a paper basis. So the joy for me is not the increase in the number of marriages, but the joy of having more children in Hungary. The data I quoted to you is a year's data, and if you look at the trend, then this trend shows that, unfortunately, we haven't been able to make a trend. And don't think I'm happy to say this to you at this kind of food, I'm simply saying, which is also a fact that whatever family policy measures you've taken has failed to achieve a trend turn, which is, by the way, a problem, no misunderstanding. So I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that there is a real need to work to make everyone happy to reach the rate on which Hungarians do not run out, as they say simply. Secondly, I would always ask that we be a little bit more just, that in a family, childbearing is probably lower when people consider that, in the context of a crisis, they do not know what their existential future will be, so they say that young couples are more cautious in this. In a period of 2008-2009-2010, this is probably the way people have experienced it, as I assume many people are now experiencing this situation because of the social and economic problems caused by the risk of the virus. So let us wait, for example, for this first quarter or half a year, for how this number will change; I am afraid that we will get the same result as in previous cases. Madam Secretary brought her here, which is a very good initiative, by the way, to free textbooks, free catering. Let me give you a sentence for both of them. For years, the MSZP has demanded that you have a free meal. I myself have said a thousand times before that the only acceptable number for how many children are starving in Hungary is zero! And we had to demand it for a very long time, but thank God, I'm not saying it was accepted, they just realized that it was something to do with it. The other is the free textbook. If you have children, you must have information about this. It's not a free textbook, it's a loan book, because you have to give it back to the school. Now, I would just like to say that this is causing a lot of problems for children, because learning is difficult because they can't write in it, they can't take notes in that book, because they have to return it at the end of the year. So, in fact, the family that wants the kid to be able to prepare for graduation from the book he's already read has to buy it, because otherwise he can't write in it, and he has to return these books if necessary. So there are so many flaws in the problem, it might also be worth remedying. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2020-06-03-88	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, unfortunately, there is a need to stop the general sociological debate from now on, so I respectfully inform everyone that I have the opportunity to close the repeated speeches under the rules of the House, and I would like to make only two minutes' speeches from here. I give the floor to Congressman László Kács.
u2020-06-03-89	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've suppressed something.
u2020-06-03-90	Wait a minute. They're gonna put your name on the screen. [[It's happening.]] Yes, please, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's also a technical sport. Of course, I'll have to react if you've already spoken to me, Madam Secretary. I understand all your ambitions, and it would also be our time; we did it: my fellow Member, Mesterházy, stayed here in the debate, and I went to the Legislative Committee meeting. I understand your multiple reproofs. I cannot promise you that I will always tell you that if I address you here in this Chamber, then I will go where I will go, but I will solemnly admit that I was at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, where, without voting against, the Legislative Committee supported their proposal to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Trianon, the protection of national identity. This may be such a problem, I do not know, but it is possible to follow through all kinds of applications what is happening here in this Chamber. But I'll tell you one more time, we hired him. On the other hand, nothing changes except what you say. Unfortunately, the poor have nothing to give to each other, their parents, their brothers, no one else, they are happy to receive something themselves. I'm sure the person who gives them something and doesn't have to pay a fee will be happy, but that's still the distorted social policy that you think it's going to run down to the existentially lower layers. I would therefore like to say once again that this could be supported, if this had come in as a technical proposal, it would have been presented a little less smeared than almost a national symbol, and then we would say that the legal triangle that has been open so far has been closed. That's all that happened, and I went to the committee meeting, and I'm sure you'll forgive me. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-03-92	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju has the floor for a two-minute speech.
u2020-06-03-93	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, just because I have to say that unfortunately we have not been helped by the government in what calculation this loss of HUF 3.5 billion actually took place, or why it is thought that it will be so, while limiting this reduction by considering the threshold introduced by Mr Attila Mesterházy, also mentioned earlier. The authors' political intention is that, in the context of the law specifically tabled to support rich families, you should pay more attention to making some sort of correction here. [[13.20]] I understand the efforts of the fellow Members to allow families close to Fidesz's policy to enforce this right, and by the way, they can save a lot of money, but on the other hand, it is interesting not only from a political point of view that the solution to the large majority of families... can not only be exempt from the benefits, but also from the costs imposed on them. This means that the richer families, yes, pay the levy above a certain threshold. I respectfully look forward to the Government's position to support the introduction of the threshold or not. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'm going to ask you, who among the authors would like to use the term. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-95	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I can honestly say that I have listened with great patience to the contributions of my fellow Members, and I must say that we are debating the duties, the abolition of the 18 percent fee for gifting and inheritance between brothers, but there was still everything in the world. I don't want to answer everything, just the biggest bullshit, because I don't think it can be ignored. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: A brave warrior who asks for the floor in a debate! Antal Csárdi: Right! The president's ringing the bell.]] The general course of the debate in Parliament is that the rapporteur will present the presentation, the exposé, and at the end of the debate he will respond to what was said in the debate, and otherwise he will not take part in the debate, because the fellow political groups will do so, as the factions will shape their position. Therefore, if I am a nationalist, I always speak at the end. This has been the case in Parliament for 30 years. In all Parliaments, I have been a member of Parliament since the beginning, so I remember a lot of things. So I have to say that I think that this style of debate is good, so don't ask the rapporteur not to get clever about the debate. Otherwise, you could do it. You'd just beat the hell out of the debate. It would not be the factions who would argue about the proposal, but would be constantly arguing with the rapporteur. Mr. President. Dear House, I just want to say a few things about families, and I'm just referring to sociological research. If someone calls the status of families, the support of families, the existence of families at all in demography or in the common good, or in social well-being an admissive or parentheses, then I have to say that two things are possible: either he has not read or he simply hasn't touched any relevant sociological research. Because all the research shows that family relationships have more children than non-family relationships. Of course, I am not saying that children born not in family but in partnerships or in other relationships are less important, everyone is very important, but it is undoubtedly a fact that more children are born in family relationships than in non-family relationships. Further, it is an improbable fact that the life expectancy of those living in a family relationship is higher than the life expectancy of those living in a non-family relationship. Therefore, putting family support at the heart of politics is also, in some ways, an important fact about society as a whole, or it helps important processes. If you remember, I remember it, even your former prime minister, Péter Medgyessy, because he didn't know exactly how to put it, but he explained it here in Parliament, only he said that the government knew that people who didn't live in marriage were in a difficult position and would help. The rules of the Hungarian language can interpret this not precisely, slightly slippery, but anyway, even the socialists had the knowledge that, yes, support for families, for example, is also associated with an increase in life expectancy. It is also quite clear that because of other complex sociological contexts, but there is such a calculation, there is this general well-being for people living in family relationships better than for those living in non-family relationships. Therefore, if a person puts this in parentheses, he does not quite simply understand how the very complex issues of childbearing, life expectancy, general well-being really relate to each other. On the other hand, let me say a few sentences about some misunderstandings. For a very long time, the mantra of the left has been that Fidesz's social policy is basically in favour of the rich. That's obviously and orbitally not true. And even though the left follows the old good Goebbelsi principle that, no matter how much you lie, it will become the truth, it will not become the truth, especially in today's communication age and in the world of the Internet. It is quite obvious, isn't it, that the reduction of the rent, which has been one of the very important policies of Fidesz over the past period, is not in favour of the rich, because the payout is not for the rich families, but for the poor families. So when Fidesz implemented the policy of reducing the rent, it did favour the lower incomes more. [[Sándor Burány: And gave the biggest discount to the rich!]] He asked Attila Mesterházy where the 14th month pension was. Do we not feel the discreet charm of asking the 14th month pension of one of the speakers of the party who, by the way, abolished 13th month's salary and pension without hesitation? However, we have responded to this, because the policy of reducing wages, when one looks at family budgets and expenses, has exempted families and pensioners from a month's salary. So Fidesz did not return the 13th month pension and 13th month's salary by calling it a 13th month pension, but, through the reduction of the rent, it exempted families from this amount of expenses, which they perceived as income in this sense. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You too can smell sweat.]] And now, dear Attila Mesterházy, the Prime Minister must have noticed that he announced that every year he called 13th, now he is called that, and that we will also return his pension. This was erased by you, so I'm sure you will. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] When we get to the end of this programme, you will be pleased if the MSZP is still a member of Parliament and you say thank you very much, because, well, what you missed has come true. The question has been raised here several times, that this whole tax cancellation is in favour of the more wealthy families, because they have greater wealth. In fact, my fellow chef mentioned all kinds of acts of wealth and rescue. The fact is that you do not know the Hungarian reality, who says so, because there are many great lawyers working to ensure that these rich people, who can pay it, can manage to avoid this levy. Now I don't want to give anyone any tips, but if you want to find out about the case, ask Ferenc Gyurcsány's lawyers how to do it, so that the high-value chandelier, which is in the palace of Szellőhegy, has a swimming pool that, no, he didn't pay VAT; how to do it with tricks so that they can be scrubbed through Fittelina Kft. Or ask Ference Gyurcsány about buying a bathstone factory with zero forints. Because he could do that. And I really don't want to give anyone any tips, but the thing is, it doesn't have to be that complicated, if someone has the money to pay these lawyers, then they're gonna be able to avoid paying the 18 percent levy, creating real estate funds, reaming to kft., playing securities, which, in this sense, is not a charge. They can't afford these lawyers who are in a normal life situation. And Hungary, you may also know, is a special country in terms of statistics, so I am talking about the average that the difference between the unmobilisable assets of Hungarian people and the cash assets is much greater than the European average. [[13.30]] The reason for this is that in Hungary, more than 90% of the real estate for residential purposes is privately owned. This is below 30 percent in Germany. So the average situation of the Hungarian people is that they live in large assets, because somehow they have a private dwelling, but in proportion to this size of property, this size of property, their cash or mobilizable assets are much less, in proportion to their share. Therefore, this proposal favours the average person, since it is just an average living situation: someone in the 1950s received housing as a referral to the II. In a district tenement, he could buy his apartment, then in the context of the regime change, for 10 percent of the then valuation. Everyone bought it, even though we knew that at the time of the change of regime, thanks to the great economic policy and housing policy of the socialist system, a renovation of HUF 1000 billion was missing at that time. In Hungarian: we were actually talking about a very flatbed-out housing stock, because the state could take away the money, but it didn't spend the money to maintain it. And now these apartments may be worth a lot of money, and it's about a pensioner who has a pension of HUF 150-170 thousand and lives in an apartment of 100 million. But this is an average situation, and its successors are not necessarily rich, but the one-time tenant, worth 100 million, which was bought at a very discounted price, is, by the way, a levy of 18 million forints, and they have absolutely no assets that can be mobilised from which they can pay it. Now it's for the benefit of these people. They can't afford it, the pensioner can't afford the expensive lawyer who'll change how to play it. So if there is a proposal, which is typically not important for the rich, but for ordinary people who have high-value assets, but whose cash assets are low, that is exactly the proposal. Therefore, the threshold that László Varju raised is meaningless in this sense. The Hungarian citizen of Buda who lives in the 600 million HUF apartment can pay whatever the threshold is, the lawyer who will make sure that he doesn't have to pay an 18 percent fee, and the poor man will not be able to solve this for the 40 million HUF apartment in Békasmegyer. So I've been thinking about this threshold thing, and I think it's pointless. At the same time, his political and social message is wrong because of what it says? The state does not manage brotherly relationships in one capacity, sees other quality brotherly relationships where the object of the gift or inheritance process is more than HUF 25 million, and sees another quality under it. I don't think that's a good message. So it's not acceptable in that sense, and it's meaningless. I would just like to say about VAT that it is true that Fidesz's tax policy is very much different from that of socialist-left governments. We basically place the emphasis on turnover taxes, and the Socialists basically put the emphasis on income-type taxes. [[László Varju: That's what we're talking about!]] The problem with income-type taxes, however, was that before Congressman Varju was very satisfied with his moustache that didn't exist. [[László Varju: I totally agree!]] To look at the income taxes that socialist governments have produced. Who paid for it? In what quantities? Obviously, all the Members demanding progressive tax, i.e. a multi-key tax system, are now stressing that the rich pay, so the highest tax rates must be paid to the rich. Socialist policy has resulted in the fact that in Hungary, when there was a multi-key tax, the majority of taxpayers were taxed with the highest key, which means that the majority of society is one of the rich, which is obviously not true. Even more disappointing is the charming feature of the progressive tax system, à la socialist tax policy, that 80% of the tax and all personal income tax revenues were paid by 30% of those paying personal income tax, and more than half of these 30 percent were public employees. So it can be seen from these data that progressive taxation has resulted in a completely absurd situation in Hungary, whereas our tax concept is based on the fact that there is one key in income taxes, but the richer, higher incomes necessarily pay more than the lower incomes. Let's do the math. There's a single-key 15 percent transmitter, I'm making 100 forints. How much do I pay after that? 15 forints. I'm making 1,000 forints. How much do I pay after that? 150 forints. Is 15 more or less than 150? And is the 100 forint earner the poorer or richer or the 1000 forints? So in the second grade of primary school, children can understand that yes, so the richer pay more than the poorer. However, there is a huge advantage of this single-key tax system, as opposed to the progressive tax system operated by the socialists, that it does not cause the immeasurable absurdity that the vast majority of tax income is paid by a fraction of taxpayers, because the tax system worked in such a way that it was very easy to defraud, to say so delicately. Let me tell you one more thing about VAT. Attila Mesterházy will remember it, because he was the head of the MSZP's VAT team if anyone else remembers. In the event that the VAT reduction is between the trader and the end user or customer, it is a Hungarian experience that the VAT reduction does not appear in the pocket of the customers, but supports the traders. You have tried this, because when Ferenc Gyurcsány reduced it, he announced it in the campaign, otherwise, just remember, immediately after the election he raised the VAT rate and even raised it higher than before the election, so this VAT policy, which was a gigantic scam, was not even worth a year, he said this specifically in the autumn speech. So when you reduced your VAT, it didn't come to customers, it came to traders. And since there is no price authority in Hungary, because there was only a long time since there was a price agency, the fact is that the existence of a price agency was led by Attila Mesterházy, which young left-wing politicians wanted to do, to go around retail shops and see that the VAT reduction was in the prices, I note: and if they didn't show up, then what? So you're telling the shopkeeper to raise the price of something? Sugar? Or milk? 'Cause the shopkeeper's telling me to get out of here, my store, there's free price formation, what politicians say about that. And by the way, they're right, it's another system when the price authorities were able to control prices in this sense. So this constant VAT reduction demand, which was proven by the Hungarian experience, does not appear as a discount to those to whom it is intended, so this is a bad form of support, so we never support it. Moreover, given the overall tax rate, if you look at it, Hungary has consistently reduced the overall tax level since 2010. If you look at all of them, the withdrawal that the state employs for taxpayers, whether it is a levy, levy, sja, VAT, we look at everything, then the fact is that in Hungary the concentration of income, i.e. the centralisation of income that the state achieves, is getting lower and lower, and I am happy about that. I am pleased, among other reasons, that the left does not govern, because I do not like it when the state applies increasing tax deduction and income centralisation, and now, when there is a crisis, we go further, simply by means of a tax reduction. This 18 percent is part of that in this sense. I therefore, although left-wing Members said that, in a sense, it is absurd that they cannot support this proposal in part, I hope that some of them will support it. [[13.40]] I would just like to make one very careful remark and two more. One of them is the trend turnaround in family politics. Of course, this is a very complex and really long debate, but my fellow left-wing Members have missed the trend turn. Please don't be impatient, because I'm here to talk about reading demographic data more carefully, because there is a trend turnaround. The overall fertility rate is a complex synthetic indicator. I do not want to go into the calculation now, but this is usually interpreted as a very important synthetic indicator, which is very important for the population, and in Hungarian it could be said very simply that the number of children given birth to a woman is very simple. This was 1.23 in 2010, today 1.52. This indicator has been decreasing steadily until 2010, and today this indicator is going up a little bit. There is also a trend turn and then look into it in the mathematical sense that there is an inflection point in the demographic curve, because the Hungarian population has fallen at an accelerated rate, and although the population is still declining, it is only now slowing down. This is also a trend turn in a mathematical sense called an inflection point. Anyway, we still can't say that we should sit back, we did everything we could, because there's still a lot of work to be done. Not to mention the fact that the population figures are not simple, and we're comparing the apple with the pears a little bit, because it's not the Fidesz government's fault for what the Ratko era looked like. Or is the Ratko era also our political sin? Because the demographic impact of the Ratkó era causes the number of women in parental age to be significantly lower than in the previous period, and this must be taken into account in the calculation of trends, of course, not when we listen to left-wing representatives in the Hungarian Parliament in a political debate, because they tend to ignore it, but this should also be observed. Mr. President. Dear House, I know this proposal is a small step. I don't think we've redeemed anything. I do not think that the adoption of this proposal will change the population, income policy, the financial situation of families dramatically, and I do not know what it is. I didn't put it up with that kind of need. We would like to go down the road, we would like the state to withdraw from family relations, and we would like to leave the pockets of Hungarian families with a little bit more, but still 3.5 billion forints more than before. We want to make people's lives easier. If we do so many little things, then believe me, the results will change. Only my fellow left-wing Members, with great respect, act like the one-time man who builds the house and places the brick on it one by one, notes at every brick that it is okay, but this one brick is nothing. No, we have to build a lot of bricks into the house we call Hungary, so that the general living conditions of Hungarian people are poor, medium-rich and rich in general, and everyone in Hungary feels a little better, even my fellow oppositionists. It's a tiny brick, so help us put this in the wall. You have to press an "yes" button, and the brothers can now inherit and give each other free of charge. It's a little help to them, it's not gonna be a downside to anyone. Support me in this, if you can. If they don't support me, I hope that the pro-government factions will still vote, and then we can say in the campaign that the left wanted you to pay 18 percent of your brother's money to the state, because that's how they see it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Next up is the 2019 LXXI on Hungary's central budget for 2020. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10735. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. The time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The emergency caused by the plague has not yet passed, but we all hope that it will be over as soon as possible. However, the epidemiological preparedness should continue to be maintained. The bill before you is designed to ensure that financial resources are available in this year's budget for the control of the epidemic and for the protection of the economy even after the emergency has been completed. In my opinion, it is difficult to argue that, in recent months, the government has well solved the most important task of protecting people's lives and health, and that we have taken immediate action to mitigate the economic impact of the epidemic. The tasks to be addressed immediately were clear: there was a need to ensure that the resources needed for protection in health care were available, to help people who were in a difficult situation and to support businesses in the sectors most affected to preserve jobs. In response to the economic challenges, we have launched the most important economic protection programme of all time. The scale of measures is close to 20% of GDP. The economic protection action plan with a total value of more than HUF 9200 billion will help Hungarian people and businesses in difficult situations to preserve jobs and create new jobs. During the emergency, government regulations allowed the necessary resources to be provided as quickly as possible for epidemiological and economic protection measures, such as increased additional health, police and defence tasks. Given that the emergency situation is expected to end at the beginning of the summer, the government regulations on the 2020 Budget Act will be repealed. Therefore, we have now submitted to Parliament an amendment to the 2020 Finance Act, which ensures that the provisions that remain justified are maintained. I also think it is important to highlight in the amendment of the Finance Act that the fact that the budget has been stable for years has played a major role in the rapid and effective take-up of health and economic re-launch measures. As a result, we were immediately able to provide the necessary financial resources in hundreds of billions of dollars. As a result of consistent economic policy, Hungary was characterised by strong fundamentals and well above the EU average with stable public finances at the beginning of this year. However, the corona virus epidemic has redrafted the social and economic processes of the year 2020 worldwide, thus overwriting our country's positive prospects. Dear House, Our proposal to amend the 2020 Budget Act sets out, among other things, the establishment of chapters for the accounting of domestic and potential EU funds and expenditure necessary for the protection of people and the protection of the disease and the re-launching of the economy and their envisaged rules of use. The provisions of the disease control fund shall ensure that the control of the disease continues to be a financial obstacle. The proposal for the Economic Fund, an important part of which is the National Employment Fund, guarantees the continuation of employment and creation programmes, the maintenance of priority sectoral programmes, the promotion of business financing and the protection of families and pensioners. The rules on the basis of epidemic aid from the European Union provide for the possibility of receiving and using new aid that may come from the Union. The provisions of the bill facilitate access to finance for domestic businesses. As part of the economic protection action plan, credit guarantee schemes have been launched to counterbalance the effects of the epidemic, under favourable conditions, which will allow companies to raise funds with State counter-guarantees rising from 85 percent to 90 percent, either through the crisis programmes of Garantiqa Credit Guarantee Zrt. or the Agricultural-Company Credit Guarantee Foundation. [[13.50]] With the adoption of the bill, the increased level of State counter-guarantee and the possibility of a higher stock of institutional guarantees with a public background will remain after the emergency. The draft bill also sets out a maximum increase in the 2020 cafeteria allocation framework to HUF 400 thousand for those employed by budgetary bodies. Protection against an epidemic is a common concern for the whole country, and everyone has to do their part. In accordance with the principle of common burden-sharing, municipalities should pay the part of the car tax redirected to the central budget into the disease control fund. The measure concerned all the municipalities in the country, but it was a priority for the transfer of funds to re-organise a reasonable amount in relation to the weight of the epidemiological situation affecting the whole country, including the inhabitants and businesses of each municipality. The proposal submitted creates the legal conditions for this common burden for the period following the closure of the emergency. In addition to joint efforts, the government paid special attention to the security of compulsory municipal tasks during the emergency period, so a number of lighter conditions appeared at government regulation level, which helped municipalities. This allowed them to provide social services, nursery, kindergarten and children's meals more flexibly on site. The central budget has provided the necessary resources for this. According to the proposal, by the end of August, the number of children enrolled will be able to benefit from childcare benefits, so that any major absences will not give rise to difficulties in providing care to maintenance workers. The draft amendment also ensures that municipalities may apply for non-refundable aid equal to the amount of tourist tax declared but not paid on their territory. The proposed amendment does not concern a numerical annex, and therefore does not contain the main amounts of the law, but only changes to the norm. I would like to point out, however, that, in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the Government will give a detailed account of the budgetary framework for the control of the epidemic and the protection of the economy until it is submitted, including the annual impact of the measures taken. On the basis of this, more than 600 billion forints were spent on epidemiological control until the end of May. In addition, health workers will receive a one-off allowance of HUF 500,000 from the anti-pest protection fund. More than HUF 1300 billion have been transferred to the Economic Protection Fund, with continuous payments of resources for economic protection measures. In addition to redeploying the domestic budget, we have also reviewed the objectives of the European Union programmes and have allocated some HUF 400 billion from existing funds for the purposes of economic protection, the protection of jobs and the creation of new jobs in the short term. Furthermore, the tax and family measures taken represent more than HUF 360 billion tax relief for Hungarian families and businesses. Dear Parliament, The coronal virus epidemic has a significant impact on the global economy as a whole. Hungary is, of course, no exception. At the same time, we hope that with these measures we can help businesses through the most difficult periods, and we can preserve the growth benefits of the Hungarian economy in recent years as well. On this basis, I ask that you support the proposal to amend the 2020 Budget Act. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Izer Norbert applauds.]]
u2020-06-03-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Barcza. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, It is well known to all of us that because of the Covid-19 infection, the government has had to create a number of government regulations in the last few months at the time of the announced emergency that concern this year's budget. Fortunately, the first phase of the fight against the coronal virus has been a success for all of us, and the epidemiological situation is improving, and therefore the removal of the emergency in June has been justified. The government also submitted a proposal to this effect. During this period, a total of three Regulations have been established which concern the 2020 budget. They will expire with the end of the emergency. This is why the amendment of the budget is justified, since the aim is to transfer them. It is important to point out, as we have already heard in the expozee, that the amendment tabled contains only changes in the text of the norm, does not concern any numerical annex and therefore the main amounts of the law, so the bill does not need to be sent to the Committee on Budgets. In total, the cash flow deficit increases by HUF 171 billion. At the same time, according to the EU methodology, hopefully this will not affect your balance, since the two transactions that cause this are considered market operations. One of them is the purchase of E.ON's domestic natural gas interests and the increase in capital due to the strengthening of the savings cooperative sector. The bill takes a number of measures, but I would like to highlight only a few of them. Most importantly, it may contain rules for the use of the central reserve for the control of the epidemic. According to this, the central reserve for the control of the epidemic may be transferred during the operational period of the operational tribe, on the basis of a proposal from the Minister for Public Finance, and, in other cases, the government can decide on the use of the allocation of the title of expenditure. The government has set up the Economic Protection Fund in order to maintain jobs and re-launch the economy, which has become an important part of the National Employment Fund. Article 3 of the proposal is replaced by the following: For example, §2 of the Act follows this change in title. It is also a transfer, but it is very symbolic that on the occasion of Trianon's 100th anniversary, the name of Csongrád county will be changed to Csongrád-Csanád. It is also necessary to transfer this change in the budget. As part of the economic protection action plan, the proposal will facilitate access to finance for businesses. This is also supported by the European Commission. As we also heard in the expozee, for example, Garantiqa Zrt. and the Agricultural-Entrepreneurship Credit Guarantee Foundation will be able to guarantee 90% of the state counter-guarantee in the future. The tax relief granted under the Economic Protection Action Plan to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic will also be transferred from the previous level of regulation. In order to help Hungarian tourism and catering, the maximum annual envelope for the annual cafeteria application applied by the budgetary bodies is increased to HUF 400 thousand. The proposal allows municipalities to claim non-refundable aid equal to the amount of tourist tax declared but not paid on their territory. I would also like to stress that the economic scale of the measures introduced in 2020 is expected to reach HUF 9235.3 billion, which represents 19,6 percent of GDP. Dear House, I believe that the bill before us will help the Hungarian economy in all respects, and hopefully the above amendments will help to ensure that the Hungarian economy and the country recover as soon as possible. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this motion. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-101	Mr President, Dear House, I find myself in a difficult position as the lead speaker of Jobbik, since I not only respect the leading president and the two secretary of state professionally, and I find it sad that they are in such an unworthy position that the package before us must be sold with a sense of economic protection, syrup, and a sense of life of such a spectacle bakery. The very sad thing is that the package before us, the amending budget package, is not about that, my fellow Members. I can see that in the government witches' kitchen they have cooked up that the package resulting from the protection of the economy and the epidemiological defenses must be presented, communicated as if it were a package of 19 to 20 percent of GDP, and this mantra is obviously being tried with the help of Royal TV, with the help of various connected government media, to be transferred to the front of the public interest. The problem is that almost none of this is true, not just billions of data. So what we see is that even if we were to accept that there is a package of 9200 billion transfers, there is nothing in the world of about 4,000 billion, but it has nothing to do with the CDC or its defence. [[14.00]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Let's set an example right away. Here, this government is throwing thousands of billions, let's see how much this has to do with Hungarian reality! It's a credit moratorium. We are talking about a moratorium on credit repayment, and here the Government of Hungary is marking HUF 3600 billion as a non-budgetary item in the package on epidemiological control, and then it appears here, even in the rhetoric of today's debate; 3600 billion is being set aside imaginaryly, which means that much less will have to be paid. The fact is that the Hungarian people's willingness to take advantage of it can be argued at an additional or minus one or two percent in the order of 50 percent, so it can be seen that a large amount of this amount will not be used in this form, although it is statistically present in the government's anti-protective package. [[Peter Benő Banai:]] They also put the Secretary of State in an unworthy position because I do not know whether he received a telephone call from the Secretary of State of Tállai or if in some way I had hoped that he would, because Mr Tállai said in Parliament, here, two meters from me, that they were planning to leave 2,000 billion forints in the family. Now, in the government communication plans, 3600 billion, as we know, Secretary of State Tállai admits that none of this is true. And it's almost the same truth about all the government items called economic defense. [[Dr. István Simicskó will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] I understand the rhetorical intention behind this, to present the world's largest economic rescue package, and to say that it is an effective, strong government that stands in the way of the castle and protects Europe and everything else as a rook. The fact is, I wish I had the best support for it, but it is not, and a good part of the amendments before us can be said that it is simply not for the purpose of communication. I see that the case of a moratorium on loan repayment perfectly demonstrates that hundreds and thousands of billions appear in the communication space, but in reality they do not make it easier for the Hungarian people, and we see the same thing, that 4000 of the 9200 billion mentioned have nothing to do with the epidemiological defense. [[Dr. László Varga is replaced by Dr. László György Lukács in the notary seat.]] We are also dealing with the same assumption of EU funds. This government has a very, very sympathetic communication panel for me, and I am very close to the idea that the Hungarian economy, which is already very exposed, should not be more indebted to the rest of the world, and that we should not make it more vulnerable to what is already one of the ten most exposed economies in the world. What's going on? In the Russian direction, Paks II practically makes a megaloan loan. This government, Mr. Secretary of State, is taking on a Chinese mega-credit on the Hungarian people's account, and is planning to build a Budapest-Belgrád railway line from it, and I am not saying that I am in favour of this, but that this can form the basis of a legitimate debate; the Chinese credit of Budapest-Belgrád is not, in my view, and it is not technically justified, not only because of the 2400 years of return, but also for other reasons; I do not see the mass of multiplier effects behind it, which would serve the interests of a wide range of Hungarian people. However, I also see that these loans and the use of foreign assistance from several directions appear not only in the government's economic defence packages, but also in the rhetoric that amends the budget. What we see here is that the Government of Hungary has taken hundreds of billions away from various institutions to devote it to the epidemiological control, and then it has realised that the EU loan or EU resource actually available for the same purposes, or that EU funds have already been allocated or distributed, and now it is trying to show them as the miracle act of the Hungarian government and the source of the Hungarian government's own back pocket. If we look at how the economic security fund fell apart into three pieces, we can see that the second large block of it would actually be a redeployment of EU funds, where corporate subsidies, wage subsidies and training will virtually all become EU funding in the near future in relation to them earlier, right? But if we look at these figures in this way, we understand why the Government of Hungary has not done anything for the Hungarians who have lost their jobs and for a month and a half to preserve their jobs. While 15 countries of Europe have already announced such or any system of compensation for lost wages and be fair professionally, Mr. Secretary of State, in the Romanian solution, I have also seen in other solutions that the fine prints make up pages, so there were also the potential excuses that left many of the users out, but at least there was an idea of what Hungary had done? He was waiting. He didn't report anything. As sixteenth or seventeenth, there was a package that, according to professional estimates, would be able to make up for about 10-20 percent of the wages lost, and we can also see the result: at the moment, more people have lost their jobs and do not receive substantial help than the number of people who have been able to keep their jobs temporarily but to ensure. In the meantime, we also see a social disaster where half of the unemployed are not entitled to any financial benefits due to the narrowing conditions of the government, even for three months, without any support. We see that it is about a hundred thousand jobs that companies and employers are taking up wage replacement support to keep them. But we also see that there was a better package here, the package of the Hungarian Job Protection Fund, which would have guaranteed 80 percent of the wages lost, where there is a danger of jobs and it is right for the government to want to keep them, I agree, but also for those who have already lost their jobs, because right now there are hundreds of thousands of people on the side of the road, terrified of a later eviction, even with a recently lost job and a minimum chance of finding a new one. I can see that 19-20 percent of the GDP in the government witches' kitchen has become a marked panel with such a thick marker, that it is often necessary to say this, because it conveys to the Hungarian people how much security there is, and how the government is waiting for it and does not leave anyone on the side of the road, otherwise the Prime Minister will tell me, if you really think so, that I would be very, very supportive of the fact that no Hungarian is alone. This could be a beautiful thought, but it needs to be filled with content, and in the 100th year of Trianon, it should definitely be filled with content. What we see is that there are other little tricks, there is, say, a 160 billion-dollar trick, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm asking you, we've been talking about the possible reduction of the socho here, haven't we? Four or five budget debates about. When was the two percent reduction in the socho decided? You've been in the budget for a year, please. Is there an epidemic or a virus emergency for a year? Not a year, fellow Members. How, then, does the socho reduction scheduled for one year into the envelope of the economic defense package or any other package on epidemiological control become part of the storm? What kind of hoax is this, please? ! 160 billion forints. They made the right decision over a year ago, and I support it, so don't think we're looking for a knot on the kaka, but on what basis are they putting it in the items of a package called the current economic defense? If we add it up like this, we'll lose 1600 billion, Socho cut, drop 160 billion, EU funds, drop 300 billion, we'll be on our way to what's left of your economic protection package. And do you include the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and support for space exploration? Well, please, what does this have to do with the CDC? Space exploration? ! What happens to us in the Hungarian Parliament that it is no longer possible to have an honest professional debate on issues that have a vital impact on the lives of Hungarian people in a long-term way? So this proposal, along with its justification, is cynical, because it is not or only partly about what it is talking about, and I find it very sad that although rhetorically I feel a lot of government communication panels, and I could also support, for example, that we should not be vulnerable to foreign megaloans, I did not take good note of the former IMF credit, nor did I ever make a secret about the fact that I did indeed have serious criticisms of the pre-2010 era, but I do see that you did not like to change the economic system. Government debt? 1,300 billion of these were consolidated, and rightly, they wanted to open a new system. What is the amount of the loan now taken up by the municipalities since 2010? It's between 1250 and 1300 billion. They're just as much indebted to you. [[Antal Csárdi: In four years!]] the municipalities, as much as they have been able to consolidate, and here we can talk about four years, not the whole ten years, so we can look at this with even more narrow perspective, but we can see that we have failed to change the system. Mr Secretary, when you earned my professional respect in the budgetary debates around 2010, how much was the mere interest burden on public debt? We were talking about the size of 1200 to 1250 billion. How big is it now? It's a million-billion-dollar scale. I understand that it is not only nominal values that need to be compared, that if the government has to deal with them because they fail to reduce them substantially, then it is possible to look at them as a proportion of GDP, and thus the formula is undoubtedly more favourable. But the scale, Mr. Secretary, is the same. [[14.10]] And just to bring out from my sight what I would like to bring out as a message: one fifth of this one fifth of the brutal interest burden paid each year could have started a national rental program, for us here, together, and one fifth of this amount, let's say, the situation of all evicted or foreign exchange loans could have been settled once and for all. Among the analyses of how Hungary's Government protects the economy, the revenue side is also mentioned. And I would like to conclude by expressing my indignation at this point. And, Secretary of State, you are a serious professional, I hope you will have a position on why there is no public burden on the revenue side. So when we are looking for resources to use protection, how is it that the retail special tax, good, is paid by Hungarian companies if they are able to diversify the portfolio, some can be avoided, most of it is not, it is debateable. Political parties join by 50 percent: we stand before it, although we also see political intentions behind it. But in the banking and multisector, where were you watching? Let's look at the alleged special tax on banks. Don't call it a special tax, please, because it's a lie. This amount levied on banks can be deducted from the tax to be paid in five years. And what's going on? In Hungarian national bank practices, they make a larger framework available with an MNB background, and there, too, the banks can draw a certain margin, so they receive virtually HUF 40 billion in support during the same period. Instead of paying this scale, they do not pay it, they can write it off from the tax and even receive support in their activities. Well, where's the public cargo? I do not want to take too much of the framework of the general debate, taking advantage of the impact of, say, the bill on the eradication of the epidemiological or crisis on the credit victims, but I see that what lies before us as a package amending the budget does not clarify how the Government of Hungary sabotaged the economic package of the epidemiological defence; how it has included items that do not fit at all in Budapest-Belgrade and space research - how it has involved EU funds and what it has done with the domestic funds it originally intended to pay for it. And we also do not see that, in relation to the amount frame of the loan repayment moratorium, let us say, the senior government leaders would talk to each other and agree at least what amount to use in the field of communication, say, while it is apparent from the number of users that this amount will not be used in posters and various government advertisements, so there will be no such amount of government package, but if there is a source available, it could be used for much more meaningful purposes. I, therefore, support this government in all its intelligent ideas, but I am only willing to do so on the ground of honest communication. This package, and especially the roundup, and the rhetoric, is a lack of honesty. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-06-03-102	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I salute my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, and give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-03-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have to and want to amend the budget for the year 20, but before pointing out the details of this, we must return to the debate in Parliament on the occurrence of an emergency. At the time when the government declared an emergency, we all knew that, on the one hand, this right belonged to the government under the Constitution, the Fundamental Law. It is not because it has nothing else to do, because it is forced to declare this emergency, to apply the special legal order of the Constitution; it is to point to measures under the Fundamental Law that, since the Fundamental Law was created, no one has ever thought that there would be such a situation that would force us to apply these provisions. Then your communication with your government here in Parliament really only covered the end of the rule of law. The law against the Crown Virus was baptised as a power law, because they were very tastefully intended to point out that what is now being prepared here in Hungary is a projection of the 1933 events of the Hitler world; Parliament will not meet, just as the German Parliament did not meet for 12 years, because only twice in that time the German Parliament met, and it was still sitting because the mandate given to Hitler was always passed on by the parliament. So this vision has been outlined that, in Hungary, this state is also coming, they have launched an international attack on Hungary, which has obviously peaked in various institutions of the European Union, and they have also tried to introduce the end of the world to the Hungarian electorate. In the Coronary Virus Act, which we discussed here a lot, they represented that we should tie government movement to some kind of fixed deadline. We said there's no point in saying that the constitutional mandate, which is 15 days, so far there's a government action in an emergency, extend it to a month, two, three, 90. You would have been partners just to be somewhat right about a fixed deadline to fix the end of the year. We have said that none of these are reasonable, we cannot see, we cannot see, we cannot see, we cannot see into the future, so it is not worth giving such a fixed time limit to the Crown Virus Act, but we must say in this law that the government measures laid down in the Constitution, which would live for 15 days, live until now with legal authority until the emergency is over. You were most surprised, I believe, when, during a visit to Belgrade, the Prime Minister flashed the opportunity to see the date when he was able to turn to the Hungarian Parliament, so that the government and the Hungarian Parliament, together, would declare this emergency to be completed, if you will. Why do you have to go to the Hungarian Parliament? And that's basically the point of the bill being tabled. Because although the designation of the end of an emergency is still the power of the government under the Fundamental Law, the government will say that the emergency will end in a legal sense one day in mid-June, but the government also knows that some of the provisions of the emergency must continue to exist after the emergency, because it also follows from the Fundamental Law that the measures taken by the government and, with the authority given by the Crown Virus Act, the parliament has also stated these laws, these government regulations, these ideas will only live until the end of the emergency period. What we are now dealing with in amending the budget is that those decisions with a financial character have been made by the government with three such decrees, some of which are now legally authorised by law, with the amendment of the 2020 Budget Act, if you like, to continue to be kept alive. That's what this law is all about. Yes, we said that, overall, what the government is moving here as a resource, and only a part of these are domestic budgetary resources, but this is overall more than HUF 9000 billion, and this is slightly more than 19 percent of GDP, so this is, in this respect, the biggest redeployment of Hungarian economic history, to which we are now attempting, a part of which serves to protect against the epidemic. The Secretary of State wisely said that the measures that had to be taken immediately could be drawn relatively wisely as to what to do: to defend themselves. It was necessary to create the conditions for as few people as possible to die in Hungary in the epidemic. Health care had to be prepared for this completely unexpected situation. That is what the Secretary of State most likely meant by the fact that it was relatively easy to draw the circle that needs to be done immediately. [[14.20]] How to survive the epidemic economically and what course to draw for the Hungarian economy, I know, I am convinced that a more difficult issue is the definition of these good ones. What is encouraging me is that I know that this government is a similarly difficult situation, although I am afraid that this is now an even more difficult situation, but it has handled a similarly difficult situation in relation to your legacy well. The 2008 economic crisis has been handled by the Orbán government in a very different way from the way you thought it would be handled since 2010, and in a very different way than the great international institutions, the IMF and the others imagined. In dealing with the crisis, we can say that the Orbán government has succeeded in doing so. The dog did not believe that the government would be able to create a million jobs, temporarily with public works and employment, and that sooner or later it would become a market job. But what was the point of our thinking? Breaking the condition that the country had known before, that people who did not have jobs are being helped in some way, we keep them where they are, but they did not have long-term thinking for the government until then. This government has said that the future must be built on work, and that we must break up with the practice that if there is trouble and there have been numerous budgetary problems in this country at your time, we will always go for money where there is money. There is always money in the world, not only at a time of abundance, but also at other times. You can always find places to give money to a country in distress. Even now, these great ideas arise to take credit with different techniques, and in such an absurd way that they even suggest that capital should not be given back in life, but as long as it is possible to think, future generations will always pay interest. Obviously, we do not think about such a course, because we have successfully solved the crisis you left behind by other means. This thinking represents it again. We say that the real way to deal with crisis management is not to use loans, because this does not lead to results, but to employment, and this crisis must be dealt with by maintaining purchasing power through employment. This is what the current thinking of the Orbán government is trying to do, and this transfer, I think, is a reflection of this. I like the fact that the better general speaker consistently commends the Secretary of State's professionalism on many occasions in such debates. I am convinced that there is no reason to think differently about the Orbán government and so on about the Secretary of State. If the activities of the Orbán government are successful, at least the voters have now confirmed this by two thirds, all success is based on our budgetary stability. You were unsuccessful when you governed because you didn't have any budget thinking. There was only fire fighting, there was rush, there were unthinkable measures. If a country's government does not have a budgetary foundation, a strong economic vision, then there is much to imagine in family policy and everything else, but it will never be anything. The Secretary of State had a sentence in his expo, and I insist. We were able to take effective measures immediately during the crisis management because we had a stable budget. If it weren't for that, if there were no budgetary reserves, if the Hungarian economy hadn't been stable and therefore the fiscal economy, then we really wouldn't have had any other means of crisis management: disproportionate austerity in all areas, or we would have gone to those who would give us money in such a situation. We have not been forced to do so, but we have found within the budget the resources that have allowed immediate action to be taken by redeployment. You are shorthanded and say that there is little Hungarian budgetary resources, which we will immediately touch. It is also important for us that the sound state of the budget does not go down in any crisis. We will not give up the budgetary thinking that we have represented, not even in a crisis. So it's worth it, and I think we can do that, and it doesn't have to be critical. The resources offered to companies through the National Bank, through various lending opportunities, are also created by the Hungarian economy. The Hungarian economy also creates that even if this does not have immediate budgetary implications. It is important that there are foundations here that are open from above. We've been emphasizing this all along. Obviously, whatever epidemics may arise in the autumn, this budget is still a guarantee that the crisis, the resolution of the health crisis, will not have a financial shortage, because the budget will provide and provide all the resources to do so. The structure of this can be reviewed, so I will not go into the details, because I think it is a smart solution that the government presented these budgetary and non-budget resources in a table in the Annex to the general statement of reasons, which ultimately concern crisis management, to which I said it would total HUF 9235.3 billion, which would amount to 19,6 percent of GDP compared to GDP. You would think that after a successful health crisis management, when you speak, you would at least mention it and speak in a slightly different tone than when this debate started between us when the emergency had to be declared. Obviously, it is of the type, if you like, that political voices cannot be released here, as they were then given the opportunity, but I regret to see that I am curious about the speech of the other opposition speakers, that simply the thinking which I think the government represents correctly is acknowledged in at least a fraction of it. I'm not very optimistic, but you're always hopeful. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-03-104	Thank you very much, Congressman Harghitai. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group indicated that the group's position and opinion will be presented by Attila Mesterházy and László Szakács. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2020-06-03-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to hear from my fellow Member from Harghitai, because everything was in it from Jancsiszeg to the airplane, which gives us the opportunity to discuss a number of topics here in the context of the general debate. By the way, it also applies to the bill itself, that there are also all kinds of things that belong to it and which do not. But let's get in line, if you have given us this opportunity in the keynote speech of my fellow Member from KDNP. You were talking about the problem that we had was that there was no fixed deadline in this law, and how surprised we were that the government wanted to withdraw it now. It's very interesting, and I smiled a little to myself, because that's what I thought of you guys, that I think you guys were the most surprised when the government announced that they wanted to take it back. Because I heard it here, and I remember the debate when our fellow Members across the hall were talking about understanding, so we can't come into Parliament, everyone gets sick, and Parliament just won't work, and that's why we need this mandate. Then they received a lot of criticisms abroad and at home, that's true, and then you suddenly realized that Parliament could still function, so that Minister Péter Szijjártó came to each meeting, and he spoke in person, and even came to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to show that the Hungarian Parliament still works and can function. In retrospect, you might feel that it might have worked a little differently. But if we were to say that it wouldn't have worked differently and that we really needed this delegation law, then life has finally proved what the opposition has said, honourable fellow Member, that there should be a 90-day deadline in this. Well, please, they haven't completed 90 days, thank God. Then it would have been easy to write the 90 days, nothing would have happened if it hadn't been for you, God, it should have been extended, then it could have been extended. But I think that we were not the most surprised at this, but you and the Brusselsers, who were waiting for the Prime Minister to defend the national interests in Brussels, and then instead went to Serbia, where Hungarian national interests did not need to be protected. The other is to say what a success story this is, how much support everyone gets. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, mentioned just one example: how is it that the banks give back what they have to pay, and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can only take credit for what they have to pay back. [[14.30]] You keep talking about how you guys are going to the banks, how much you represent small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian families, and I don't know who they are. Please, why give back to the banks the money they are now asking for as a tax, and why are Hungarian micro- and small entrepreneurs forced to take credit, which, of course, they have to pay back? Then he told me that you didn't touch the loan in any way, because the socialists did it, and there's always money to reach out to, but you're not in debt to the country. Well, my fellow Member, explain to me what on earth the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is made of! Tell me, what is that made of? ! From the Hungarian budget? No! It's Chinese credit. It works on Chinese credit! The construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is based on Russian credit. Yeah, right, you're not going to the IMF, you're going to a much better organization: the Chinese Communist Party, and another better organization: Putin. Well, really, it gives the country much more sovereignty, it gives us much more leeway than turning to the IMF or turning to the European Union. It's just because we're members there, and it matters what we think, and in China, we can go for a hallway, and we can go to Putin for a hallway. Of course, Congressman, they don't give credit because it's a charity. We don't expect them to. From their point of view, it's perfectly all right what they do. They serve geopolitical purposes, serve interest expansion, serve their own commercial interests. So I understand exactly why such a decision is right from a Chinese, Russian point of view. But please commit the Hungarian taxpayers to two countries in this way, on the part of the government proclaiming Hungarian national sovereignty, that one has a return of 2,400 years, and the other has no idea that there will ever be any return, and you are talking about not taking on the Hungarian government's loan! I am surprised that the roof of Parliament will not fall on us. Yes, you can. I have just read in the budget redeployment that we will give HUF 80 billion to the Budapest-Belgrád railway line; another 80 has already been given before. Do you know how much we're giving you for wage support? Same amount, 80 billion. So when you're talking about the history, the greatest, the greatest, never seen, then, please, you'll give me 80 billion for a project, where, by the way, Lőrinc Mészáros will be the main contractor, while you'll give me 80 billion for full wage support. Same amount. Well, if that were 800 billion, you could say it's historic, never seen. I also read today's news that Lőrinc Mészáros took 11 billion forints of dividends from his company. Congressman, 11 billion forints! It's not that complicated, I'd add, because you got 18 billion funding right away. I understand economic protection: it protects the economy of its own oligarchs. That is perfectly understandable, from your point of view, just allow us not to support this; let us tell you that you are indebting the country on Russian Chinese credit, you are using this crisis to fill the pockets of your own friends with money again! Well, why did you take 11 billion forints of dividends? Why couldn't Lőrinc Mészáros show national solidarity? Well, why couldn't you say that boys, I'm not taking out 11 billion now, I'm leaving only 1 billion and 10 billion in my company, so that the Hungarian state doesn't have to give me extra support, but rather I'm helping and supporting my own employees because I have solidarity because I'm a national emotion because I support this government because I've got so much from this government. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So don't tell my fellow Member that you're no credit, you've made a trend turn, there's national sovereignty, and then you're doing a fantastic job. I do not understand, Mr President, that I have written to myself that you have won for the third time because of what a responsible and well-founded budget policy you have made, and no one else has done this. I was wondering how the left could win in 94, how the left could win in 2002. In 2006, how could you win if you were the only ones who ever made a sound budget, no one ever lost the election in life, yet in 2002. So I think that we should be more careful with these fantastic adjectives in the previous debate, too, but I repeat, understand that the world did not start with you, thank you to God, and it will not end with you. Two, it is not that when there is a Fidesz government, there is heaven, then everyone lives in paradise, and when there is another government, then there is immediately hell and pestilence all over Hungary. You asked us to be more understanding. Mr Harghitai, we must accept that we see this issue differently. [[Dr. János Harghitai: I accept.]] I understand that you do not like this question and the opinion that we are saying, but we do not like the way you talk about it. This difference of opinion is likely to persist, and there is no problem with that. Just believe that you can look at this issue not only from the point of view you said, but also from a different perspective, and that aspect can be equally relevant and legitimate in such a debate. [[Dr. János Harghitai: That's true.]] The one you started on the budget amendment. The other is that you don't use any restrictions. Please, what are you doing with the municipalities? They are constantly taking away the resources of the municipalities. What do they call it if it's not austerity? ! I understand that the word in the dictionary of the Fideszes-KDNP representative is austerity, but it is in this bill that some revenue from the municipalities will be less than what they had. We will not be able to support this proposal, for example, because it takes from the municipalities a very important resource that has been there so far, and from it they have been able to provide services to voters who live there. This is said not only by the mayors of opposition on the left, but also by Fidesz mayors wagging their heads and raising their eyebrows that it is not certain that this is good in this respect. You said they wouldn't give up the budget even in a crisis. Congressman, I wish to ourselves that you could keep this statement. A crisis is a crisis, especially a crisis like this, because it can always bring about situations that were not predictable and require immediate action. No God forbid, but economic and social impacts may well be such that this budget cannot be kept either. Therefore, I would say to you that this may seem valuable today, but in two months' time, in six months' time, it may be the value of being able to change that. Not to mention that there hasn't been a budget that you didn't have to change, because you're constantly bringing in this budget so quickly, that almost every number is unreliable, and then you're forced to change it yourself later. But let's put this aside for a moment, I'm sure it didn't increase transparency and predictability when planning the budget. I wish for ourselves that the government could really keep the deficit target and the sovereign debt target that it knew, because that means that Hungary is not affected by this crisis to the extent that other countries might. However, I would advise that the European Union can be a much better partner for us than China or Russia, if any, if we are talking about credit, because in one place we have a word and in the other place Hungary can always be a servant girl. I would like to quote what Viktor Orbán said: let us not proceed so that Hungary will once again be Putin's happiest barracks, only on the basis of financial dependence, and not that we are now pleased that these great powers will come to Hungary, not with tanks, but with banks, and then with our national sovereignty, by giving us money. So overall, Mr President, I would like to say that, on the basis of these various considerations, the MSZP faction will not be very likely to support this proposal, because we believe, as Jobbik has said, that these measures are insufficient. There are no doubt the right directions, no misunderstanding, and for my part I think it is worth admitting that there is good intentions, a good step or a step in the right direction in the various government proposals, so I agree with you on that, and I do not dispute that. But let us be allowed to say that from a different perspective, we approach this issue in a different way, and that is why we may have a different conclusion than you, as a pro-government representative. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the 15-minute window, Mr László Szakács left two and a half minutes for Congressman. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.40]]
u2020-06-03-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a few more reactions to what's been said here. They acted immediately when there was an outbreak. That is true, they immediately said that on April 3rd and then on the 6th, they would announce what had not been announced on April 6th, and since then there has been something to look forward to. It's an economics action plan. Earlier, they always said 16 to 18 percent, today for the second time I've heard that it's 20 percent. One more thing, honourable Members and Secretary of State: in three years! Not in a year, not this year, it will be in three years, so it will be much less for a year, which will only give you the opportunity for a much smaller chest or vest. Of these, which is given in three years, of which 2,700 billion is a loan. I understand that you don't like credit, but then you're gonna ask the companies to do it, and I'm always asking you who's gonna take credit now, how you're gonna repay it. And a very important question, isn't it, is that you want to give these companies a loan with the intention that these companies will be able to repay it, assess the debtor's income and assets, and you believe that you will be able to return it. So no one wants to steal these companies. My fellow Member from Harghita said that the measures should be extended, which have now expired during the crisis. By the way, I'm just saying that December 31st was also included in these, so that the sentences from the very beginning of the government know well that you know that on December 31st is the last day of the year, and until then, you have wanted to maintain these provisions in their scope, and you will now maintain them beyond doubt. The largest budget transfer looked like the National Security Fund had been renamed as an anti-coronal virus fund. Its purpose had not changed; unexpected events had to be financed from unexpected events; and the National Employment Fund was also renamed as a coronal virus protection fund, and so the first, perhaps 1345 billion forints in the budget, which was a large budget transfer, was necessary, but not historical. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-03-108	Thank you very much, Congressman László Kács. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-06-03-109	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Indeed, we are in a situation where our fellow Member from Harghita opened the debate so wide, which gives us the opportunity to react, but since my fellow Members have covered a lot in this regard, Mr Mesterházy and Mr Kács, I would like to relate to a few things. But the Secretary of State has also given this opportunity, quite frankly, perhaps by being essentially involved in things beyond the wording of this law, or what is usually said here as a political lozung, but then Mr. Secretary of State has agreed to do so and begins to say so. All right, do this. In order to sense this matter a little bit further away, I too, if you will allow me, have created a situation or are in a crisis situation where, I might say, we finally had to govern in this country, which, after the past ten years, has obviously given you great surprise. I'm not surprised. Ten years ago, in an international economy, every year with thousands of billions of HUF or more every year, you have reached the point of being proud of the growth that you can make with more than a thousand billion HUF of Hungarian citizens. With all due respect, I want you to look around our neighborhood for a while, and for those of you who have had such an opportunity, they're a little, but on a scale, they're clearly far ahead. Instead, Hungary has lost the positions it could have created, or had before, and what it could have created should be viewed as missed opportunities. Mr Harghitai is not right about that, because in 2010, you took over a consolidated economy, in which you started communicating and talking about it, by the way, with a particularly bad exchange rate, Mr. Secretary of State, as surprised as you look at me, with big eyes, but, by the way, you created this situation, and that's how you started it. There is no doubt that there is a very serious difference in economic policy ideas, what should have been done, because in this sense you have not changed the fact that Hungary's exposure has remained as before, and despite the fact that in recent years there has been thousands of billion forints of EU funding, this situation has not been substantially altered. Let's jump, there's 2019. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance spoke about a crisis from the beginning of 2019. They communicated, with some wavering, that a crisis would be expected, because after many years of economic activity, this could be reasonably assumed from the other side, if that was the case, then how could they look so surprised when this happens, instead of prepared, instead of spending the resources placed in reserve and accumulated over the years at the end of the year, instead of saving it, instead of throwing it away, and now, yes, even the larger projects that my colleagues mentioned here, the larger projects, but let's add one more, two weeks ago or three weeks ago, you turned to the world with a bond of EUR 4 billion, that, by the way, the bonds issued in euro, foreign currency, should also be included in domestic funding. So far, you have fled in communication, and it has not been possible for this to happen, and you have condemned all previous practices in this regard, and now you have taken and stepped into it, because otherwise your past ten years of activity has been a missed opportunity, and after the missed opportunities, you will be put in the position of looking ahead without saving. And that is why you are economically in the position that, when you were supposed to help Hungarian businesses, when small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary should have had the opportunity to save them, for example, with wage support, so that you did not have to let people go, you could not take any action. And when you have already made your move, bye-bye, with more than 300,000 unemployed people, and you can safely say that, by the way, you are not able to help the Hungarian businesses in any way. By the way, they have no doubt been very fortunate, in recent times and perhaps even further away, and they have been very fortunate to see that energy prices are going down considerably, and they have been very fortunate that, in spite of your hasty measures, the epidemic has not spread, because of the restraint, restraint, discipline, gratitude, and certainly other reasons. Therefore, the responsibility alone, and I would like to say here that Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, a week ago, was kind enough to respond to the fact that until now the direct costs of defence have been spent at HUF 426 billion, and I will translate that, because my question, my request, was to ask for a specific presentation of what they had used for defence, which I did not receive. So I'm going to translate this by saying that this is what it cost, the 150 million masks and the ventilators that you purchased, from which you kept a production report here once a week, Minister Szijjártó, and these masks can certainly be found here somewhere in the country, because that's what you think it cost. [[14.50]] For whatever reason, you think, Mr. Secretary, that I'm wrong about this, then please take the trouble and answer a fair question with an honest answer. We would like to see it, and I would like to see what these 426 billion forints were spent on. Take the trouble of helping me with this, by the way. And by the way, I have nothing to say to you but that you, what you are here with Mr Harghitai and I could say, are presenting us with the previous agenda, and you think that we can watch, like in the movies, that otherwise what you say is, well, I respectfully, that no one will eat it so easily today. The people who were evicted in the process, the people whose jobs were terminated, the people or businesses to whom you promised zero percent credit... They'll plant the country, then go into the first bank or the third bank or the tenth, and there's only one place to find one. There is an interest payment obligation everywhere, while trying to make businesses believe that they are otherwise receiving a zero-percent loan, and I am not talking about businesses, but about citizens who believe that you have done anything in this case. So, Mr. Secretary of State, you can only say that you have been pushed away; you have pushed the defense away for a month and a half, and by the time you have figured out what to do, it was long too late. Two, in order to improve your surprise, I say to you that, by the way, it also supports the fact that, when my fellow Member felt that a small wage subsidy was given, how insufficient it was in this regard, they began to modify it, and they slowly got there, I might say, a little bit, but I have to put it in a quotation mark, but a little bit too late. By then, your helplessness had caused too much damage and nothing to do with it. You should have taken a step, Mr. Secretary, and then you wouldn't be in the position I started by showing us a film here, which we pay with our taxes. So thank you very much, this show has to end quickly, because in this respect, it is not true that you here can solve everything without lending. Then, as a small contradiction, I draw attention to the fact that all businesses are encouraged to take credit and survive by having to farm in such an unexpected situation or just not being able to farm. Now, that law, Law No 10735, which has been put before us as a budget amendment, and they have previously said very proudly that it is possible to direct the country and the budget without any budget changes, should we say that not only during the period of the epidemic, but also before that time, the government has regularly taken decisions, otherwise legally, from which Parliament was freed. In Hungarian, the government has created a situation for itself so that it can freely transfer, use the remains, and otherwise essentially exclude these decisions from the control of Parliament. If I may again draw your attention to something, it is when I have only sent five letters in the last month and asked the Minister to go back to these transfers and once again to November, when there was no economic or epidemic danger, when they could have responded to the fact that, in addition to writing two numbers in an Excel table to transfer them from here, they were not willing to comment on them for one piece. After that, they are surprised that the Minister did not hold his annual report at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets... he did not consider it worthy, by the way, to appear at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on the grounds that Hungary had adopted a convergence programme for the period 2020-24, in Hungarian, in the possession of the epidemic situation, how it discusses the economic possibilities of the next period. In this convergence programme, you are imagining three scenarios, and in comparison, the opposition in Parliament was not considered worthy to discuss this with them or at least to be informed of it. Instead, it was rejected in various forms, and I am not talking about who the accomplices are who contributed to this. I respectfully ask you to take the trouble to understand that if, in this respect, the Hungarian people pay their taxes, then note that this Parliament and the opposition representatives have a way and opportunity to control what you are doing. Take the trouble to tell us that, and not to show us a movie, which, by the way, may have some truths on the surface, but the reality, the one that should be shown from this, the one that should be shown what situation we are in, is denied! And here is another example of this at the end of the timeframe: the insolence that you and the local governments are doing to say, in essence, here, or to do so, that the resources or opportunities for protection from the resources in the municipalities are being taken away, and then you claim that the municipalities, you could say that they have all the conditions, I think that this is unacceptable in this form. I am pleased that, at least, Mr Secretary of State has not agreed to the story that the change of name of Csongrád-Csanád County is also part of the amending budget. I would also like to express, by the way, that little thing, that they are moving towards their forgery of history here too, because that is the name of the county, my dear fellow Member, that has never been. No way! And for this reason, what you here justify, what you have written here, it's simply, again, I'm saying it's just not true, as it is the other way around. Since you know that this is not true, I therefore also think of these tables, which are in the presentation, I might say, that Excel can handle everything, so your presentation cannot be supported accordingly. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-110	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-06-03-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Well, I don't think you're proud of this bill. I think they are not proud because if I showed this proposal to a freely elected Hungarian citizen, well, I'm sure they wouldn't be able to read out what they spent on. It is simply untraceable to see the improvements that have been made, what is left for them. You can read all of it, but you can't get a comprehensive picture of it, that's for sure. My fellow Member from Harghita said that this is a clear proposal. I am sorry, my fellow Member from Harghita is not here at the moment, but if he comes back, I would like to ask him that if he thinks this is a clear proposal, please show me what improvements have been made in the chapter on the support of the 9th local authorities. Which municipalities have lost development? Because at the moment, even though we know there are such things, it is not included in this proposal. And why I'm saying this? I asked the government with a written question to answer this question, but the government did not answer my question in the faceless manner, in violation of the parliamentary law. This is totally unacceptable. [[15.00]] And, yes, I think that when we talk about transparency, we are talking about the right of every Hungarian citizen to know where we want to defend ourselves, and when we talk about defence, we do not have to present such a magic trick instead of a amending budget. But I think I could call this bill amending the budget an illusionist talk, because there are things in it, but let's see what these are all about. You're hiding behind the defense, covering for them, spending strictly on protecting against the epidemic and restoring the economy: a billboard campaign; without it, I think that people cannot be cured. But I could say the same thing about national consultation with all its costs; without it, people cannot be cured. Just as they may not be able to recover without the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which I think is Hungary's biggest shame anyway. We're basically talking about you creating a railway line under the heading of economic development, referring to the epidemic, which I'm trying to introduce here one step at a time, so one step at a time. [[One step forward between the benches.]] It costs 5.5 million forints if I take three, that's 16,5 million forints. So I think that you are making fun of Hungarian citizens. But let's look at what is important to you in the context of the fight against the epidemic. Space-related tasks; you cannot defend yourself without it. It says: Investment aid for the Western Balkans, capital increase for Eximbank in more than 14 billion ways, and support for tasks related to the Olympic movement and other sports strategy developments, because without sport, you cannot defend yourself. And I think that in the same place we should list the Veszprém swimming pool, the Nyíregyháza Spartacus-Bozsik Football Academy training center. I think that in some absurd way you are trying to sell as a defense activity that you are not really doing anything differently than before the epidemic. Yes, there are expenditures that are inevitable, which are financed by you, but really, when it comes to supporting the economic players, they do not support the worker, who is the engine of the economy, not even small businesses, who employ 60% of the employees as employers, but Lőrinc Mészáros, Tiborcz, Garancsi, Csányi, and I could probably name this list for a short time. What do we see? You believe that the economic rescue package is part of the development of tourism, where the Lake Balaton, by the way, supports tourism businesses in the hands of these gentlemen with very little money, serious tens of billions, even hundreds of billions, are going to pay for their own friends, and they are trying to sell this illusion in such a way that we, please, are trying to shift the economic consequences of the epidemic in a positive direction. But it's a lie, please respectfully, it's a lie, because we know that these developments have been decided before, but you've included it because it looks better on the balance sheet. But I think it is worth looking at a number of details of the tricks when you are among the sources of the protection fund for the health professionals and women's women's wage increases that have been decided. You will put this in the anti-protective package, and when the expenditure on the anti-punishment fund is listed, the same text will be used to publish a previously decided wage increase for health workers and women. What's happening? An amount previously decided, completely independent of the epidemic, is presented as if you were to implement it in connection with the control of the epidemic. You are deceiving the Hungarian people. They deceive Hungarian people, but the biggest problem is, if that is not the biggest problem, that they are late and not helping where they should be. They're throwing money away for national consultation and tourist development, because the problem is that these tourist developments don't go to small businesses and companies working in tourism, but to friends Garancsi, Mészáros, Csányi, Tiborcz, and it's a really scary shame. It is not my shame, it is your shame, my fellow Members. I think we could talk about this for a long time, but it's completely unnecessary. It is completely unnecessary, because I think that if the viewers could see from here, if they followed this debate, so they could see this debate from this position, then I think they would see two Fidesz Members sitting in the debate, and a KDNP Member, and I think that this Fidesz's interest in protecting against the epidemic is perfectly demonstrated. I think that what I think we need to talk about in the end, because I don't want to waste too much time doing to the municipalities. They're talking about how everyone has to play their part in defense. Please respectfully, you are right, and I agree with you, and I would also like to say this to my fellow Member from Harghita, because he said that because we oppositionists do not support anything, yes, I say that this is the right thing to do. It's just that you're forgetting something. They forget that the municipalities provide and provide the sick people, the people who are suspected of the virus who have been quarantined, the elderly, they have all the costs, and the municipalities have undertaken to do so. In addition, the municipalities of the I. district led by Márta Naszályi V., the IX. District VIII, led by András Piko The district has created the forms of support that you have not created. These municipalities have helped those you have not helped. And I think that, on the contrary, what you are doing: the withdrawal of the remaining part of the motor vehicle tax is always the pompous sentence that comes up against us, that, oh, well, the HUF 34 billion that concerns this budget year is not much, but we can see the draft budget for 2021 that it will stay that way. But we can go on, I think that withdrawal does not start here, and it does not end here, because we can clearly see that the support of the above mentioned local authorities has been taken from the chapter by the source of a huge number of municipal development; it has been hijacked on the grounds of defence, while improvements remain that I do not even remember the development of a jumping tower on a beach. Well, thank you. With all due respect, I think that while your faction leader hated Mr. VIII very much, The mayor of the district was taken away from the 8th district. district affecting more than one billion HUF... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He didn't call it off!]] That's a lie, my fellow Member, and I ask you to abide by the house rules. So I think that while you are removing resources from non-likable municipalities, they do not appear here, and I think that, in the case of a budget amendment, these transfers should appear. [[15.10]] My fellow Member said from the KDNP side that they were not called. Yes, I can, with all due respect, tell you the date, but I have the letter, which is worth looking at. These development resources have not been removed from the municipalities because they have not been called off or technical errors, but have been banned or withdrawn because they have been formulated as a necessary decision to control the epidemic. I have the letter in front of me, and I think that whatever else my fellow Member says is lying. Like this bill before me, unfortunately, it's a lie, and let's just say it's called an epidemic defense, which isn't. Previously decided developments, previously decided payments, subsidies, and what we can really see is that where there was a great need for help, they were partly late and partly unhelped, and this could have been direct support for the working people. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-112	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2020-06-03-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are living in a very specific time, since within a few days, the Parliament's agenda includes both the bill for the budget for 2021 and this year's bill for amending the budget for 2020. This also shows that there is a time when planning is very difficult, because if the government insists on its plan to discuss the draft budget for next year without further discussion in the autumn, but we are going to do so now, at the beginning of summer, it is likely that we will end up with this year's budget, which should be amended in the same days. That's my comment on planning. Of course, there are also substantive comments here. The amendment to the 2020 budget, unfortunately, will in many respects lead to a more difficult situation in the fight against the epidemic than it would have been if this budget had not been amended in this form. I'll tell you exactly what I mean. Now it's not about re-labelling, it's not about simply re-naming things that already exist, and we're pretending that this is a new source, while the old sources are listed under new names, new titles, new columns, new lines, but I'm talking about whether you like it or not, there are municipalities and local governments in the unwelcome front line. This is not an abstract concept, bodies elected by local citizens, their institutions, and that direct office, the direct body that citizens can turn to if they are in trouble. And although the government has often said that we are looking after Austria with a little delay, but we are taking over the methods and decisions there, in this respect we are very not following the Austrian decisions. In these days, Austria realized that a great many municipalities were in trouble, and through this a great many people who would turn to the municipality for help, but there is a lack of resources, could get into trouble, so it decided to help the most deprived municipalities, the most vulnerable ones, in order to carry out these tasks. This does not go to raise the salaries of the workers there, but to social support that reaches the citizens through the municipal system. It is also the case in Hungary that citizens have started to storm not only the employment offices, but also the municipal authorities. In Hungary, there is an unusually weak unemployment benefit system in Europe; an allowance system that is an unprecedentedly short period of three months instead of the previous nine months, and in addition, it is not even in stone in terms of benefits, these three months are the maximum, but the practice shows that if a person does not have 360 daily jobs, then these three months are a much shorter period. Compared to this, while official data show that we are talking about some 430 thousand people who are currently unemployed in Hungary, although they would like to have one, not only the employment offices, but also the local governments, because of this social network element, which would result in a job-seeking allowance, only half of the 430 thousand people get benefits at some level. More than half of them do not receive any state aid for this form of existence, but they can turn to the local government and receive such aid if the local government otherwise has a source. However, you have ensured and ensured that municipal authorities will be reduced by the current amendment of the 2020 Act, and that next year's movements include further brutal restrictions. I haven't seen the mayor of Kőbánya make a statement yet, and I've probably missed the fact that next year's budget, for example, belongs to the budget of Kőbánya, which belongs to my constituency, affects me to what extent. The mayor of Kispest has already spoken. Next year's budget changes will take 500 million forints of state funding out of the pockets of the citizens of Kispest. We are talking about the municipal government of a district in Budapest. But not only in the future, you have made sure that the budget of the municipalities will be cut by amending this year's budget law. Yeah, it's about the car tax. And while Austria is making a decision not only as a European country, but here, in our neighbourhood, to help local governments in trouble, so that municipalities can help citizens who have no other income and who have no other income, they will withdraw HUF 34 billion from the same municipalities in this bill, which is in front of us. Moreover, the justification is quite simply outrageous. I don't mean to quote it literally right now, but that's basically what the bill is 9. As a justification for the fact that the Parliament takes note of this: it acknowledges that this HUF 34 billion will not remain with the municipal authorities now, but will form part of the central budget. Well, that makes two comments. I'm asking the Parliament to ignore your name. Stop them from taking this money away from the municipal authorities. My second point is, what is it that you acknowledge? One morning, the local governments woke up to some miracle that this money had suddenly been transferred to the government? No! The government just took this money. It is not a natural disaster, it is not a locust-walking, it is a decision by the government to take this money away from it, and therefore the possibility of helping local authorities is further reduced. It has already been labeled to a serious extent what this source can be used by the municipality at all, and this money simply lands on the government budget side. Instead of helping the local governments in this situation, the government takes money away from them, and considers all of this to be taking note of this as the weather, hail or I don't know what, flood. Dear fellow Member, I'm asking you to ignore it. Don't mind me. Stop him! Stop it with me. You will find a partner in me to prevent this from happening together. You know why? In order for the municipalities to be able to help, they are closer to man than the government. In this debate, however, what government assistance, economic protection and job protection look like in practice have already been referred to by more people, and perhaps the number one favorite oligarch of Fidesz: Lőrinc Mészáros. [[15.20]] Well, to put it together in a matter of days: on the one hand, I take out 11 billion dividends from my company, while I receive nearly 20 billion state aid, and at the same time, as the country's largest economic employer, I don't employ more people than I do, but I dismiss people. So Lőrinc Mészáros did not spend this amount on job protection; he welcomed the state aid, fired some of his employees, and then pocketed more than 10 billion dividends for his own family. Now this is what you call job protection support, economic protection and family protection, but this is what it looks like in practice among fidesz oligarchs. And where they could really help families, they could really support people, I'm talking about municipal authorities, they're reducing these resources. To sum up, it is always the result of a hasty budget that needs to be amended. When, moreover, changes to this budget year will be on the agenda at the same time as next year's draft budget law, we should pay particular attention to the importance of this, the importance of planning and foresight. And again, contrary to the wording in the explanatory statement of the bill, I ask the Parliament not to take note of this amendment to the budget of 2020. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-114	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Burány. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward withdrew. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2020-06-03-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond with a few thoughts after the keynote speeches. Firstly, I would like to thank you very much for your thoughts in support of the measures taken by the Government to address the health emergency and to mitigate the economic impact, both from the pro-government and from the opposition benches. We also heard positive comments from the opposition benches, but a significant part of the findings were, I think, worth arguing with on the basis of the facts. One of the statements made on several occasions was that the government did not act in time and took important measures late. First, let us look at the measures taken to address the health situation, and what they look like in an international comparison. I have before me the statistics of the world's health organization, the WHO. Among the benches of this House, we have often talked about the various statistics, the number of tests, the number of infections, the number of deaths. Each death is a personal tragedy and a tragedy of the community, yet I must say that health protection in Hungary has been more effective and effective in scale than the average defense, based on the international statistics available to us. Why could we do that? Among other things, because we had financial resources that could immediately be put into the service of health protection. Mr László Varju said that we started to deal with the epidemic without saving, he said that we did not accumulate enough savings in previous years. Well, please, there was a HUF 378 billion National Security Fund in this year's budget, which was completely untapped, and the government was the first to touch this tool when it came to health protection. This reserve was needed to ensure that there was no delay in the delivery of health expenditure. Moreover, it was not only the budget allocation, but it was also possible to finance it from existing sources, with sovereign debt issues, as we were able to finance immediate economic protection measures. I would remind everyone, however, that, at the time of the epidemiological situation, the first line of measures included tax relief for the sectors concerned. The budget was in a position to do so, we were in the financing situation, as I think, among the first steps was the announcement of the moratorium. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that at the moratorium too much money was indicated in his justification. I have to tell you, in the bill before you, there is a complete framework for the moratorium. The Member knows that both individuals and businesses, if they choose, are free to repay their payment obligations and can decide to withdraw this and take advantage of the moratorium. True, thank God, there were many individuals and businesses in the situation where he decided not to take advantage of this opportunity. Let us accept what Congressman says, let us deduct HUF 1000 billion from the total budget, and then we are not talking about 20% of GDP, but 18% of GDP. The government talked about all the resources that the government has moved, and what the central bank has moved, I think it is important that the two economic policy actors were in line on this issue, so that amount of resources is between 18 and 20 percent of GDP. For example, the amount of the moratorium that those affected will not pay during the moratorium will be determined for the next year. It has also been said that there are measures to justify the bill before you which fall under the category of fraud; if I recall correctly, this was not mentioned by a speaker. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said, for example, that the reduction of the social contribution tax rate by 2 percentage points and the impact of this 160 billion dollars this year are here, when this has already been discussed in the debate on the original draft budget law for 2020. Well, the reason you're here is that with the partners concerned, the agreement at the end of 2016 was that the reduction of the social contribution tax rate will be based on the increase in real earnings in the competition sector: if real wages in the competition sector increase by 6 percent, then the government will reduce the social contribution tax rate by 2 percentage points. If we recall the debate on the 2020 draft budget law, then perhaps we can also draw out from the minutes that the government is counting on this from October, the last quarter of 2020. There's a whole other situation right now. Today we are talking about the need to protect jobs, the need to protect salaries, and, at the same time, we are not looking at the increase in wages in the competitive sector, but we are implementing this tax reduction, which should not be done under the agreement, especially from July. So it is a measure that the government wants to help businesses. When it comes to wages, why does the epidemiological fund include an earlier wage increase that has already been decided on both the revenue and expenditure side, since we have also calculated revenue and planned expenditure? Therefore, in the current situation in Europe, as part of crisis management, everyone is focusing on preserving as many jobs as possible and not on raising wages or not. The government says that in this changed situation, too, the originally decided wage increase for healthcare workers will be carried out in November by 20 percent, specifically for nurses, and beyond that, due to the considerable strain on health care, the government has previously decided to provide health workers with a one-off allowance of HUF 500,000; this is also reflected in the protection fund against this epidemic. With regard to equal burden-sharing and the burden on local authorities, we have often said that we believe that everyone should contribute to tackling the current situation and that everyone must adapt: businesses must adapt, workers must adapt, organisations must adapt. I would like to thank the parliamentary parties again for giving up a significant part of this year's party support, and they have accepted that this is also necessary for defence in the current situation. The sacrifice of local governments is much smaller than this sacrifice. Let me remind you of the revenue we have generated for local governments when planning the budget in 2020. [[15.30]] The planned revenue of the entire municipal sub-scheme is nearly HUF 3000 billion, less than HUF 5 billion. Compared to this, I ask that we interpret the item of HUF 34.4 billion. Only local taxes amount to more than HUF 1000 billion, so if we look at the fact that, in addition to these party subsidies, let us say, the central budget itself is for the control of the epidemic, and I am not talking about economic protection, just how much resources it spends on epidemiological control compared to its total revenue, and if we look at the same ratio with local authorities, we will see that the government has asked for less sacrifice from local authorities. Yes, in this situation, the situation of local authorities is also not simple in many cases. Once again, I would like to thank all the municipalities involved in the defence, whether by actions or by accepting that part of the revenue should be cancelled. But I would ask the honourable Members to note in the bill before you, in addition to the 34 billion HUF transfer, that, for example, the proposal that the municipalities would have received without a reduction in the number of children would keep the funding that they would have received in nursery funding. If we didn't touch the fiscal law now, for example, the funding of crèches in local authorities would be reduced. Please also look at the financial situation of local authorities. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that the current debt is over HUF 1000 billion. Please match the figures: the debt at the end of 2019 was HUF 220 billion. But then let's look at the financial assets of local governments, whether in cash or in sovereign debt, in addition to debt. This value is much higher, let me say only one number: the sovereign debt stock of Budapest, Budapest, was HUF 180 billion at the end of last year. There is a part in this which is a loan drawn from the EIB, but a large part of it is its own savings. So, please, when we look at the burden the government is asking for, the burden the government is proposing, let us look at the financial situation of these organisations, and let us also look at the assistance that the government intends to offer to municipalities in difficulty, in addition to their own mistakes. In addition to the proposal that has already been mentioned before you, as regards budget 21, I respectfully draw attention to the bill submitted to Parliament yesterday, which is already linked to budget 21, but some parts of it can enter into force this year. This includes the proposal to open a loan over the year as a new loan facility with a maximum loan of HUF 200 billion. This loan would be available to municipalities who cannot handle the current situation from other sources, otherwise, and, of course, there is still an opportunity for local authorities to request government assistance individually. Congressman Sándor Burány spoke about the use of words so that the Parliament would take note of the transfer of the vehicle tax. Mr President, this wording is given because, during the emergency, the government took immediate action in terms of the budget, immediately established the said CDC Fund, immediately provided for the uploading of its resources, immediately established the economic protection fund, and has already decided on this transfer of resources to the municipalities. If the Parliament agrees with this decision taken by the government, overall, it considers the burden of the municipalities proportionate, then the Parliament must adopt it legally and take note of what the government proposes. Of course, the Parliament's heart has the right not to make that decision, but in the form of a legal explanation of the government's use of the word. How successful economic protection measures are, and if you will allow me to say so briefly, I think that we will only be able to say them later. When we see the 2020 figures, we can draw a balance. I think we already see the numbers on the success of health protection, and we will be able to report on the economic results later. At the same time, I have to argue that, as I have said, the government has not immediately taken action, there are scheming measures, and that Hungary has lost its position, and we have not used the favourable processes of the international economy in this way, if I quote you roughly precisely, Mr László Varju. He also said that he expected fair answers to fair questions. I agree with that, Mr President, I fully agree with you, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, that if we use this term, then I think it is important that fair and true wording be given in Parliament's debate. Allow me, Mr President, to argue with the statement that Hungary has lost its position and we are facing the epidemiological situation without any savings. As far as positions are concerned, let's look at Eurostat numbers. In the first quarter of 2020, based on the European Commission's uniform methodology for all Member States, our economic growth was 2 percent purified or cyclically adjusted from so-called calendar effects. The absolute rate is 2.2. Average European Union -2.6. The euro area fell by more than 3 per cent. It's the short period, the period of the few months behind us. But let's look at a longer period, let's say, compared to 2010. Overall, GDP growth in the EU is 1.2 percent between the first quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2020, and 32.5. This is a cumulative growth number, Mr President, and I would ask you to check the Eurostat and the European Commission numbers. I do not want to bore you with all kinds of statistics, but I think that whether we are looking at growth, employment numbers or activity rates, Hungary has been characterised by positive macroeconomic and real economic developments over the past period, and, yes, this was necessary to ensure that the state of the budget and its stability were also needed in order to provide the maximum assistance to businesses in the current situation. With regard to the specific measures taken by the Economic Protection Fund, I regret that there are only a few businesses here that are often mentioned from the opposition benches. The ITM managers and many members of the government often report on how many businesses have submitted applications for employment support. Only job support, more than 140 000 jobs, has been needed. These amounts, which we pay for job retention or job expansion, will be well over the amount of HUF 80 billion, which was mentioned in connection with the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. I must therefore argue with Mr Attila Mesterházy, who compared the funds for the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line with the resources provided for the purpose of maintaining and increasing jobs. The latter largely exceeds the funding amounts of Budapest-Belgrád's project, which, by the way, creates jobs and invests. As far as the nature of the bill is concerned, I would like to allow Mr Csárdi's wording to be rejected categorically, which says that the bill is lying. It's hard for me to understand. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] Congressman said that the bill is lying, so please tell me specifically which point you do not agree with. I think it is important that, in the justification for the bill, the government intended to present all the resources for the control of the epidemic and for the protection of the economy. The text of the bill itself is all about provisions, it does not concern numerical annexes, yet we considered it important that the Parliament be given a full picture of the resources it had allocated for epidemiological control and economic protection. And, of course, when it comes to the implementation of the budget before the Honourable Parliament, we will not only report on how the individual appropriations have been used, but also on how the individual transfers and the use of the resources of the new funds have actually been made. Overall, I therefore think that the measures so far have been justified, and we see that we have sought to provide meaningful assistance to Hungarian businesses. The series of measures that could represent 18-20 percent of GDP in the overall economic impact is significant at international level, and I hope that when the implementation of the 2020 budget is to be reported before the Honourable Parliament, we will see that, overall, these steps will be successful with an international outlook. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-116	Thank you, Secretary of State Banai. Dear Parliament, Two-minute speeches, first from Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[15.40]]
u2020-06-03-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's get a few things straightened out, because the socialist keynote speakers were talking about all the loans being financed and how much more public debt is growing. You didn't have the courage to write in the Fundamental Law that every time, every year, you have to reduce public debt. We've done this, and we've been holding onto it ever since. Attila Mesterházy asked how they won in 2006. We all know the answer: they won by lying. It was the anniversary of the fall speech. You've won an election by lying and falsifying numbers. In 2006, the budget deficit was the world's top, from behind, so it was one of the highest in the world. In order not to be completely unfair, the budget deficit in the war-torn Lebanon was higher than in Hungary in 2006. That's how you win. Ladies and gentlemen, At this time last year in the 2020 budget debate, in the detailed debate and in the general debate and in the amendment proposals, you have spent several times in the head of the National Defence Fund, in advance, with the various amendments you have tabled. If we had accepted the amendments you used to spend the National Security Fund there in advance, then there would have been nothing to finance the protection against the epidemic. If it had been up to you, there wouldn't have been any reserve available to finance protection against the epidemic, health protection and economic defence. If it were up to you, this country... you would have failed the country. Luckily, you didn't have the bar last year either, so we kept this large-scale National Security Fund with nearly HUF 400 billion, and this was available from the very first moment without contact in the Hungarian budget. And it's almost ridiculous that László Varju says that they left us a consolidated economy in 2010, that's pretty ridiculous, and maybe even he doesn't believe it after they destroyed the country and brought the country close to bankruptcy. I would say to Congressman Antal Csárdi that he would have had more than a month to ask Mayor Pikó for this amount, and he did not do so. Thank you very much. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-06-03-118	Thank you very much. Congressman László Keresztő Lóránt, two minutes!
u2020-06-03-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before the proper speech, I will take advantage of your return, Mr Harghitai, and I would like to ask you back what you said. The Member said that the government had a very powerful economic vision. Obviously, this is linked to a vision of what this vision is, and we can also see it in the budget, this year's budget, this year's amending budget, the various measures and next year's budget. I took it out of the Member's words that he was very pleased with the decisions that the government has made in recent months, and you were one of those pro-government representatives who voted in favour of nearly a thousand billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád railway development along with encryption. Congressman! You're Baranya County's self-government representative. We know that the University of Pécs is by far the largest employer in Baranya County. Do you agree that 2 billion forints, taking into account the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, will be taken away from the university? You know exactly what brutal dismissals this will entail. How many of your constituency are working at the University of Pécs? Do you agree that the government will withdraw from the financing of public transport? How many of your constituencies go to Pécs to work and use public transport, which in this way will suffer enormous blows? The government decided not so long ago that 34 railway sidelines were virtually condemned to death. In your constituency, the railway between Villány and Mohács has also come to this fate. Did you agree with that, Congressman? Do you agree with that? Would you be interested to know that the government is planning to restore the appropriate flight density here at any time? In this regard, I would also like to ask your opinion, and also about the fact that the head of several local government associations, the head of TÖOSZ, also said that the withdrawal of motor vehicles will be a brutal liquidity problem in two thirds of the settlements. You are the individual representative of a small settlement constituencies with a fragmented settlement system. Do your mayors, the mayors in your area, agree to these measures? And what have you done to ensure that these measures do not seriously affect your constituency? Thank you.
u2020-06-03-120	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs Fidesz, notary.
u2020-06-03-121	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you for the floor. However, I think it is time to go back to the original text of the law and not to say sentences of this kind, but I think democracy could fit into this. But the most important thing is what is included in the law and the justification of the law also states that the main figures are not affected by this whole amendment. These are transfers within the main numbers. So, if we look at European examples, the government has not allowed this year's deficit targets, has not let them go, has not started irresponsible borrowings. You know, I've been here a long time, too. In 2008, when the economic crisis arose, there was a national consultation, they did it, you did it, Gordon Bajnai called the participants of the Hungarian economic and municipal life and political life to the Academy of Sciences. There, we told you how brutal the withdrawal from the local government at that time was. I would only like to say to Mr Csárdi that after 2010, we had to make up for HUF 1300 billion in local governments, because it was not that the municipalities were irresponsible in their farming, but that the previous Bajnai and Gyurcsány governments had made such withdrawals, while placing tasks on the municipalities that cost the Orbán and the civilian governments this magnitude. So I think that we should talk about this and that you did not contribute to the amendment of this budget law when you voted for it, and you probably won't now, and the task remains for us in the defence. We'll do it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-03-122	Thank you, notary Lajos Szűcs. For two minutes, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will have the floor.
u2020-06-03-123	Mr President, Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his active participation in the debate. It's always a refreshing phenomenon, a spot of color. As we move from democracy to somewhere, this color is refreshing every year, so it is a growing cure for the wounds of the soul. At the same time, I'll take advantage of that, with your permission. I appeal to the Secretary of State that a large investment, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, has been mentioned here, but we do not know the government's expectations in this regard, whether in terms of the number of jobs created or in terms of plans for return. However, we see that there are serious, racially significant items being allocated to this area, both in the budget and in the area of subsequent cuts. At the same time, I would be at least as interested in what the Government of Hungary expects from supporting space research projects through modification. Specific facts and figures might help us to have a calmer debate between us, because if we could see how many jobs the Government of Hungary expects by supporting space exploration activities, how many Hungarian compatriots might be interested in working in space exploration projects or participating in such plans as may be relevant, we might be able to agree with them with much better intentions. To my fellow Member, Mr Nacsa, I would like to point out that, given the nature of the opposition budget amendments tabled, there are many alternatives to each other, so if I submit a programme to support a flask baby programme without a hat and a fellow Member presents a comprehensive demographic programme, we will certainly find overlapping areas of these. If we excavate these overlaps, we may not be that far away from reality. However, what I see is that if your economic policy were as convincing as you think it is, perhaps it would not be necessary to devote a hundred billion to the communication of government activity alone, spent on the ministry or on public television. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-03-124	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Mr László Szakács MSZP representative is next. [[15.50]]
u2020-06-03-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to thank you for participating in the debate as a truly refreshing exception. I must also respond to what you said, that the comparison between the last 82 billion forints on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and the 80 billion forints spent in defence is not good. But, Mr. Secretary, that was taken only from the defense fund, at least that's what the press said. The government took it from the Hungarian people's table and gave it to others, Chinese and Belgrade, for sure, so to those who want to build a railroad. They always talk about 18-20 percent of GDP, you, too, but always add, Mr Secretary of State, or distance yourself from Secretary Schanda in three years. Not this year, in three years. That's how historic this economic rescue package is. At Kurzarbeit, we can talk about it, and in terms of shorter working hours, my position is that the Hungarian government developed Kurzarbeit in Germany as long as it was accompanied by Polish engineers with the Fiat that they developed it until it became a small Polski, i.e. it was completely different. They did not form the basis for this shortened working time, which is being trained in Germany. There you have to pay every company every year a sufficient amount of money to prepare for these cases. That is why they were able to overcome these crises in a completely different way. To my fellow Member, Nacsa, I say that in 2010 the government debt was HUF 22 000 billion, and in 2020 it was HUF 33 500 billion, and this includes what private pension funds have, you know, the HUF 3000 billion that has evaporated over the past few years. I don't think that's worth being proud of. They're taking out irresponsible loans, loans from China that need to be encrypted. What if it's not irresponsible? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-126	Thank you, Congressman Cook. Mr Gergely Arató DK representative is next.
u2020-06-03-127	I have to start with a very important separation from my socialist fellow Member: my first car was a small Polski, and I loved it very much. But that's why I wouldn't have asked for the floor, but I asked for the floor to draw attention to another similar contradiction. It is a very common argument that your economic crisis management is much better than 2008 because there is no credit here. I'd like to give you three news from the last few days. On 23 April, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga announced that the issuance of Hungarian Eurobonds was a success of EUR 2 billion; Prime Minister Viktor Orbán authorised Mihály Varga to provide the necessary guarantees for EU credit on 23 May; and now, on this weekend, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga announced that the government would issue a green loan or green bonds worth EUR 1.5 billion. I do not rate these economic policy steps, because there may be a reason for a government to take credit in an economic situation, whether in foreign currency, but I would just like to say that this is considered to be absolutely good or absolutely bad, at least a superficial propaganda voice and no meaningful input to an economic policy debate. Besides, I do not think it is worth comparing crisis management in 2008 and 2020, because these crises have a different nature, and more importantly, we are far from the end of this crisis. Let's look at the gap at the end of the year. So in the semester, after the first two months of crisis, it is easy to say that everything will be fine. We hope so, but let's just wait and see what happens by the end of the year.
u2020-06-03-128	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. It will be possible for another two minutes in the next round. We now have a preliminary statement, Mr László Keresztes, leader of the Group, LMP.
u2020-06-03-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm reacting quickly to Congressman Szűcs, who was a little bit resentful of the politics of Parliament. It's a political, political body. But it is very important to refer back to the fact that, if we look at only the justification of the bill, we have listened to the expo, the speeches by the pro-government representatives, the lead speakers, this has started a debate, which I think is a positive and certainly forward-looking debate. It has also been pointed out by my fellow Members that, in practice, the debate has been opened so wide by Mr Harghitai. By the way, if we are discussing a budget, it is very difficult to say that anything that does not belong to this year's budget debate or next year's. He mentioned in relation to the municipalities, and it is said very often as a huge credit to the Fidesz government that there was a government debt transfer in 2014 and what a huge help it was to the municipalities. Well, we know that local governments now have the same amount of debt, so a few years was enough to regenerate this huge mountain of debt. I myself have been a municipal representative for eight years, and I have seen that Pécs was in Pécs with absolute value his biggest debt, 44 billion had to be spread out in the public debt after the previous irresponsible socialist-liberal period. But the huge debts that already amounted to more than 10 billion remained with municipal companies, so that debt consolidation was not complete. However, you can agree with my fellow Member Szűcs on what we can only see in recent months, but we can also go back a few years on the extent to which the withdrawal from the municipalities is. It's incredibly big. It is also a relatively serious task to list how much resources have been taken from municipalities only in recent months. On the other hand, this crisis in itself has been a huge additional task for the municipalities, but you have addressed even more tasks to the municipalities. They're basically resetting a system so that they can use manual control, a kind of umbilical cord to maintain, finance, and kick them from the other side to the brink of bankruptcy, and then show that maybe the non-government, independent or any kind of leadership or majority of the general assembly is not fit to run the settlement. But that is really not what this debate is about. I, too, would like to take advantage of the fact, which has been mentioned many times by my fellow Members, that the Secretary of State does not go to politics in Parliament, but to conduct professional debates. I'd like to take advantage of that. It is also quite clear that the situation that has emerged is indeed a huge challenge. We can say that a year ago, we could not expect to face such a crisis. Although everything has to be planned, everything has to be prepared, but we did not know that such an epidemiological situation would develop, which has been an unprecedented challenge for the entire world economy over the past long and long period, so this is a global challenge. For example, we are facing very serious challenges in the organisation of defence. Let us trust the best, but we can see that in some countries, unfortunately, the epidemic seems to be starting up again. This in itself is a very serious crisis. On the other hand, the world economy, which is almost braking and receiving huge wounds in this way, is also a huge global challenge, and we still do not really see the exact effects of this, what its depth will be; what its depth will be globally, for Europe, how the epidemic will develop, what other accompanying economic crisis may have, and how we can face it in Hungary. So we don't know that. But it is certain that this crisis has shown us what fundamental changes we need to be able to make, what changes we need globally in terms of the world economy, and what and how we should be prepared for. It is quite clear that it is in our fundamental interest to build a self-sufficient, powerful economy as far as possible and to try to reduce dependence, to reduce exposure, for example, so that basic needs and basic products can be resolved not by transport from remote continents, but, if possible, by local production or regional cooperation. Therefore, in all respects, it must be able to build a self-sufficient, robust and resilient economy, including other challenges that are not necessarily related to the crisis. We can even think about climate change and all the factors that we can say are those of the 21st century. They're expanding a series of changes in the century. The problem is that from these budgets, obviously from this year's budget, but also from next year's budget, we cannot see the government facing these changes and trying to make a fundamental shift in economic policy of this kind, for example, to use all the resources to build an independent economy and a powerful, functioning national economy. [[16.00]] Now, indeed, everyone, all governments should work and work to save as many jobs as possible and to create as many new jobs as possible using the available resources. That's what these debates have been about for weeks. I would like to confirm Z. Kárpa to Daniel's speech that relations can be formulated. For example, the Budapest-Belgrád project is an example taken away, and obviously we are not taking it by accident, because it is a brutal, huge mistake made by pro-government representatives that can be linked to any other budget line, any other basis for job creation, but it does not explain why they are not spending 5 or 10 billion at all, but 80 billion this year, but if we look at it in a one-year perspective, we do not know exactly how much or 180 billion for this project next year and, overall, 1000 billion. What's your reason? What's your explanation? What's your foundation? What are the guarantees of exploitation? What contractual terms? And with what figures, with what calculations have you obviously not, Mr. Secretary of State, but the pro-government majority of the national and parliament, that this decision can be made, this step can be taken? Not so long ago, a few weeks ago, you announced a job creation fund, which was apostulated to create 70,000 new jobs with HUF 80 billion. How, then, can this be opposed to the fact that only this year's budget, if we now accept that only 80 billion are spent, has 70,000 new jobs been abandoned? Why not from 160 billion, why not from 200 billion, why not from 400 billion to create a fund for new jobs? Why should a huge part of the available resources be spent on a project not supported in any way in terms of return? Exactly, Mr Secretary of State, please explain to me that you may have seen secret documents, which, I don't know, you may now be able to achieve exactly how much jobs you will create this year, because this year's budget has 80 billion forints, the investment of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But if you look at it in a one-year perspective, all in all, if you spend 180 billion on it, it's exactly what it's like... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] I understand, Mr Secretary of State, I understand, Mr Secretary of State, that it has just been said from another Secretary of State that all means must now be used to protect jobs and create new jobs. And don't convince me, Secretary of State Orbán, that a project that we know, of course, that Lőrinc Mészáros can bring 300 billion to his companies, which is again about the delivery of Chinese mass products without guarantees of exploitation, and that it is about strengthening Chinese colonial intentions that the Hungarian taxpayers are burdened with, could play any forward-looking role for Hungarian national interests. Mr. Secretary, I'm looking at you, and I know you know that, and you agree. This was a political decision on a very, very high level, which is contrary to the Hungarian national interests, we can say that it is a betrayal of national interests. But in this situation, when this economic crisis arose, this epidemiological situation and the economic crisis arose, it would be time for you to quantify what you are earning in this year's budget for HUF 80 billion, which my fellow Member said was transferred from the economic protection fund to the Budapest-Belgrade railway line project; precisely, by number, showing what the background of this is, why this decision was made. I don't know, at the government meeting, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, but what decision was made, what debates took place at the government meeting, to take 80 billion forints from the economic protection fund, and to regroup them for the Budapest-Belgrade railway project, what numbers were placed, let us say, before Prime Minister, and in what way, with which foundation these decisions were made. But I have a similar question, once again taking advantage of Mr. Secretary of State's professional attitude. It was not so long ago that a debate took place that the universities had already reached these brutal restrictions, and originally, Secretary of State Bodis confirmed that they were planning to take 23 billion forints away from universities, and he was not happy that his own sphere was being reduced, and that we managed to negotiate or reduce it back to 15 billion, which we know is, Mr President, that the University of Pécs is worth 1.9 billion cuts. What are the effects of this? A few years ago, the University of Pécs had a few hundred million-dollar cutback, which meant a brutal layoff. Now, if you take 2 billion forints away from Pécs University, how many jobs will that cost? It is quite clear that the university will no longer be able to function in this form, there will be unforeseen consequences. This will not only have a very serious negative impact on the university this year, but the consequences for the future are still unclear. It is certainly a huge blow for the whole region, not just for the constituencies of the Member. What were the calculations behind that? So when again you took the 80 billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád railway line from the economic security fund and put it there that the Budapest-Belgrád project should be built, then on the other side, everyone has to take the part that they are lost, I don't know, at this time maybe 15 billion from universities. For example, if we look at the impact that it will have on redundancies in universities, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for accurate figures and documents supporting estimates, again I would say, taking advantage of his active involvement in the debate, because obviously such a serious decision has been made by making some kind of analysis of the positive and negative effects that this will have. Let's just say, it's kind of hard for me to talk about positive effects when, you know, colleges are almost ruined. And on the other hand, he made a concrete analysis, and if I did, I hope that it was done, what was the result of it for the municipalities? I have just mentioned briefly that several local government associations and many city leaders and city leaders have said that there is almost an inextricable set of government restrictions affecting municipalities. State Secretary Orbán also confirmed in last week's debate that if they are faced with the fact that it is true that a large part of small settlements cannot manage, they will face this issue and change these brutal restrictions. Is that what you're counting on? So how does this appear in the planning of the budget, that if the municipalities will not be able to manage these huge cuts, how and how will this be applied in the fiscal redeployment? I don't want to list every item here, because it's impossible to do it in 15 minutes, but I'd like to ask you one more item. We can see that as many public services as possible here in the last ten years are not better, but worse. I wouldn't go along with the indicators of the road network right now. It is clear that the legacy before 2010 was horribly bad, but the indicators are worse every year. Such a crisis sector is water, the water sector, which is also badly affected or affected by this economic crisis. It is not for nothing that it was formulated to the government that, in respect of the public utility tax, the withdrawal or abolition of which the profession has been demanding for years in a completely justified way, could be granted some kind of extension to those liable for payment here in the context of the crisis. They didn't get that chance either. Perhaps you can see, Mr State Secretary, there are 40 or a few water utility providers, some state-owned and most local government-owned, and simply these companies are on the verge of falling in. This is partly due to the reduction of the rent and partly because this sector utility tax has also been imposed on these companies. There's been a lack of preventive maintenance, a lack of maintenance that's already in dire need. The extremely poor wage level is the reason why workers leave. So really, this sector is on the verge of collapsing, and everyone is looking at when the first major public service provider will announce at the Great Plains this is a very close situation, unfortunately, that it is not able to operate any longer. Are you waiting to give this sector a lifeline? Speaking of the vision of the future, while we are talking about an economic vision, Mr State Secretary, we know precisely that it is a thousand billion-dollar scale that is lacking in the water utility sector over a 15-year horizon, in addition to the existing resources, in terms of appropriate preventive maintenance work. Secretary of State, give at least one impulse to anyone in the vicinity of the government to think that if there are such restrictions on the water utility sector now, if you are in such a difficult situation, what additional costs will be projected for the future. Therefore, if preventive maintenance, renovations are cancelled and the rest, it will later justify the replacement of entire public utilities. What additional costs will this entail in the future? And it's a close future. Do you even think about it, does the government count on the negative effects of austerity in such a sector? But likewise, this can be applied to the road network, because if there is no or no resources, and we can see in this year's and next year's budgets that, for example, there is no resources for the renovation of the lower roads, then the roads are increasingly placed in a category where it cannot be renovated but needs to be rebuilt. What additional costs will that mean, and not in the long run, but in the 5-10-year horizon? So I asked these questions, Mr Secretary of State, because I trust that, unlike many of your colleagues, you will give me a professional and possibly a number-based answer. But honestly, I would also be happy if, at least in terms of directions, you could give us some kind of guidance to see how the government thinks, when we see it or see it, almost everyone sees that sectors are heading towards collapse, and the government is not taking any meaningful steps to prevent this cataclysm in addition to the success propaganda. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő, as you ordered, Mr. President of the Group, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I try not to abuse the confidence of the President and of this House too often, but there have been findings that I cannot respond to. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes may have used the term "brutal displacement" twice. I would like to make it clear that, among the steps taken by the government so far, there is no action that can be classified in this category, and, by definition, the bill currently under negotiation before the Honourable Parliament does not include such measures. What do we call austerity, or brutal austerity, if you will? The government's response to an economic crisis increases the burden of the population, reduces its income, i.e. raises taxes on the population, reduces wages, eliminates jobs or makes the same with businesses. [[16.10]] I would therefore like to make it very clear that we have seen this kind of crisis management in Hungary, too, and we know what its effects are; the government that has been elected since 2010 has not taken such action before, nor is it doing so now. The Member, as I understand it, considered it a brutal restriction that, in some budgetary institutions, for example, in universities, part of the operational expenditure was transferred by the government to the control of the epidemic or to the protection of the economy. Why did we do that? Because our goal was to protect jobs and provide businesses with extra resources with tax cuts, plus subsidies, but besides that, we do not want to release the government deficit into infinity; if we did that, we would not be able to talk today about the successful issuance of foreign exchange bonds. So what did we do? We asked the budgetary bodies, all the institutions, not for expenditure of a personal nature, but for investment in rem and institutional matters. Let me tell you that this measure, the conservation measure, was implemented only by the government in the bodies under its control. I have a constitutional body that volunteered to do the same savings. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] because the head of that institution felt responsible for his contribution to the defence. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What about the Rogans?]] As far as universities are concerned, I must here deny the Member that a HUF reduction would have been made in the personal expenditures of the University of Pécs; of course it was not, and I think that the monthly budget figures show that the management and financial situation of universities today is much more stable than it was ten years ago. The chancellor system has contributed to this, and the Higher Education Structure Transformation Fund, which was in the budgets of the previous years, included a restructuring of the funding system, so I think that these measures could be undertaken, not only from a macroeconomic, comprehensive aspect, but also from the financial situation of the institutions in question. This will convert me to the concerns raised by the municipalities. Secondly, it was said that the debt of the local authorities was of the same magnitude as the amount that the government had received in the past around HUF 1300 billion. Sorry, I have to state for the second time that the total municipal debt at the end of 2019 was HUF 220 billion. But when we appreciate the amount of sacrifices the government requires from the local governments, I repeat, let us look at the total revenue of the municipal sector, which is about HUF 3000 billion, and let us add how much deposits and sovereign debt the local governments have. In my last comment, I told you about Budapest's situation. I received the data on deposits: about HUF 800 billion is the deposit stock of the entire municipal sector, which includes, of course, resources provided by the government and available for development purposes, so we can go into the autopsy of this deposit. I would like to remind everyone that in the closure debate, I have always been able to report that the local government system, after the transformations, has overall been stable, we have seen surpluses. Of course, there are always municipalities that are in a difficult situation, which need to be helped individually, but in view of the whole system of municipal authorities, I think that the HUF 34.4 billion vehicle tax transfer requested for the control of the epidemic represents a reasonable amount for the financial situation of the municipal system and for the weight of the tasks ahead. The debate of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line took place, and the Parliament dealt with it in a separate law. I do not want to go into the details of this, but let me mention that if it were so absurd, then why there are several countries outside Hungary, which also see reason for this investment, Serbia and other countries, let me say. I therefore think that this is a project that is considered rational and feasible by others outside Hungary. I will also go back to the issue of borrowing and debt, which has been mentioned several times. Member Gergely Arató quoted some of the past weeks of sovereign debt financing when we were able to report success. The Member also said that the current crisis is different from the previous one and said that Hungary has issued foreign currency bonds in the current situation. I agree with the Member, this crisis is different from that of ten years ago, which is much more brutal. The crisis ten years ago was a crisis from the financial sector, moving to the real economy, where the activities of each sector did not stop overnight. We are talking about a crisis starting from a health situation, where the activity of some sectors has dropped from one hundred percent to zero. We didn't see anything like this ten years ago. Unfortunately, the economic figures in the second quarter will be astounding not only in Hungary, everywhere, because we have not faced a crisis of this kind, and in this situation we can say that while ten years ago there was no chance of a foreign exchange bond or any financing being carried out, it is not a coincidence that we had to turn to the International Monetary Fund or to the European Commission, so there was no chance of raising funds, now thanking God, we can say that, on the basis of the foundations of the Hungarian economy, investors overbook the papers issued by the Hungarian State and we can finance the Hungarian State at low prices. This does not, of course, render our economic policy, which has been pursued since 2010, out of the question of public debt, because our goal remains to keep public debt on a permanent downward path, and we cannot do anything else, because that is what the Fundamental Law says. But the Fundamental Law also says that when an economic downturn can arise, the state can increase its debt ratio in exceptional situations that we are facing. The debt ratio will certainly increase compared to the level of around 66 per cent last year, but we are confident that we will be able to keep the downward trend in government debt in the coming years, that is what the proposed budget law of 2021 is about, and we hope that we will also use foreign exchange financing, but overall we will keep the state's foreign exchange exposure within limits, and we do not want to exceed the 20 per cent of the total government debt. The last thought, I apologise for the fact that I have been a long one, which has been mentioned several times in the context of the amendment of the budget for the 20th budget, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát and Mr Lóránt Keresztes mentioned a fundamental change of perspective. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that the regime change has failed since 2010. Well, I don't want to list all the macroeconomic data and put them in an international context, but I think the figures say that there is a fundamental change in all aspects of life. What is it that we insist on after 2010? Jobs are at the centre, and this is what the 2020 budget changes are about, and if the economic situation is such, we will, of course, be paying attention to the sustainability of wage growth, so we will also focus on strengthening the R &amp; D and innovation character of the Hungarian economy, for example, space research. Thank God, there are domestic companies operating in the space industry, it's a high-tech technology in the ascending branch; I don't want to present the space exploration activities of the last fifty to sixty years, how many companies are involved in space exploration today, and how many of these were 20 to thirty-fifty years ago. This is an industry where Hungarian companies exist, and if companies prosper, if companies have opportunities, then this is also a sector where it is worth supporting investment and job creation, creating high value added jobs, which is why MEPs have found a transfer between economic protection measures aimed at companies operating in the space industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. Congressman Csárdi, don't bother telling me this for two minutes because you took it off at this moment, and then you'll be next in the next block for a proper speech. [[Antal Csárdi: That's why I took my two minutes off!]] No, they're not related. So if you want to tell me your two minutes, I'll give you time. [[Antal Csárdi: Then I would like to give it to the leader of the group...]] Good. Then it's Congressman János Harghitai's turn for two minutes. [[16.20]]
u2020-06-03-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've already pressed both. That's the kind of debate that goes with the narcissism. Mr. Crusade Leader warned me on purpose that he would speak to me, so I should stay here. I love it when the leader of the faction starts to worry enthusiastically about my area. Believe me, no one cares more about my area than I do. Let's talk about some of the thoughts you've given me. Do I agree with the withdrawal of self-governments? This is the second time the Secretary of State has said the specific figures. It doesn't bother you, you're going to announce a big debt, the Secretary of State will give you a fifth, and we'll talk side by side at the same time. A week ago, I met the mayors of the area of Beremend, two weeks ago, the mayors of the region of Pécsvárad. No one is enthusiastic because some of the municipal tax is included in the state budget, but I didn't see any moaning in the small settlements. No one's applauding, but there's no such thing as death. You know what they're happy about and what they're really looking for? The development resources of the Hungarian village, which have not been cut off in any way by the state budget. That's what my mayors have in mind. I'm glad that the Mohács-Pécs railway is being cut... [[On the signal of Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt:]] Villány-Mohács railway line. Of course I'm not happy about it. I'm always doing everything I can to keep that railroad alive. We think that this railway must live because we build a border port in Mohács, there is money on it, and then we build a bridge in the Danube, and there are plans for exports, all of which generate traffic and economics, so this railway must work in order to approach Pécs. In fact, this needs to be improved if we want to link the border cities together. University? I'm not happy about any withdrawal, but I do realize that, temporarily, universities are being squeezed, and I'm aware of the grandiose developments that await the University of Pécs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] One of them was just announced by the government when a national institution was established in connection with viral research. These are matters of magnitude more important than the way you think about these issues. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-03-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group.
u2020-06-03-135	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm trying to concentrate. Congressman! If you agree that the Villány-Mohács railway line must be maintained, then I offer to turn together in a letter to the government and demand that, when the epidemiological situation is over, the so-called epidemiological agenda which, nationally, has practically condemned 34 sidelines to death be abolished. Congressman! I did not say my own opinion, I have a strong opinion on the restrictions imposed on the settlements, but the public opinion of the head of the TÖOSZ, as well as the public opinion of the head of the Village Association on government austerity measures. [[Dr. János Harghitai intervenes.]] And if we're going to have university restrictions or college withdrawals, Mr. Secretary, now if a university has to postpone its investment, say, because of a 2 billion-dollar cut-off at the University of Pécs, won't jobs be lost there? On the one hand, the government recognises the role of the University of Pécs and asked the head of the Center for Disease Control to conduct a research nationwide, and on the other hand 2 billion HUF is lost from the university. This is an outrage! Mr. Secretary, you have a lion's share of budgeting, you're a man of numbers. You should see numbers of what this will mean, say, to the University of Pécs, or the 15 billion-dollar withdrawal from other universities in total, and the other item in the hat, the 80-billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád! You cannot go through such a budget debate that you do not want to be involved in this, it was a separate debate. You don't know the numbers? Don't you know the payback numbers for the Budapest-Belgrád railway line? And you're saying that if it wasn't for that, you'd obviously not be here, you wouldn't have been voted by the majority. Minister Péter Szijjártó said that if the government creates a Hungarian port in Trieste, it will satisfy the maritime needs of all Hungarian companies. Minister Szijjárto told me that. Then the intention to spend 80 billion forints on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway to reach the port of Koper is counterproductive to the port of Trieste. So the Minister of the Government acknowledged that this project is completely pointless, it is only 80 billion in Budapest-Belgrád railway development this year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you.
u2020-06-03-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We now have a regular speech from Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-137	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Then, on all topics, we usually listen here in the Chamber to the fact that the government side is addressing the previously governor's side with its disgruntled words and what it was then. The former governing forces in the opposition are in return for this, and in fact this is the last 8 years and the last 10 years are competing in this House. I'll tell you the truth, it might be weird from my mouth, but I'm really tired of this. I'm bored because there's finally a government rep in this room who owns the numbers. He always tells us to start from numbers, from facts, and not to distort, to say other numbers, or to value certain numbers differently than they should be evaluated. And the reason why I thought I was going to say this is because, since I can't argue with Secretary of State Banai about the specific figures, they are probably always, as we see them, he knows most, but I thought that I would like to present here some of the reality of this battle that I've been seeing here for two years. And by neither side throwing anything into the other's eyes, it is now exclusively on the budget, because they are negotiating a budget amendment. Before that, I would like to say with great respect that it has been very, very bad for me over the last few weeks to hear from various State Secretarys that we do not want to bring back aid, we do not want to build on aid for the well-being and progress of society, but on work, work-based society. Yes, but in a disaster situation, in an emergency, when hundreds of thousands of people lose their jobs, it was not by accident that the legislator introduced into the disaster protection law at the time that disaster relief could be temporarily justified in such situations. If my proposal had been accepted in March, that from April to June, for three months, those who had lost their jobs could receive 100,000 forints of disaster relief, it would have been abundantly spent on this budget, because we keep hearing what reserves there are, and the money after it was spent by people who lost their jobs for purchase, 23 percent of the next month would have come back to the budget, because VAT and other taxes and contributions are certainly redirected. I would just like to say that a number of people would have felt better if they had felt that the government was providing real help in this situation, and that the lack of prospects that otherwise existed would not have prevailed. I would like to talk to you about the next question. We are constantly hearing that we do not want to take credit, it is not the credit that is our priority when we want to create budgetary resources, because we have just successfully issued foreign currency bonds, but before that, of course, forint bonds, settlement bonds, and the rest of it. Don't be angry, but couldn't someone in this House just once say that the bond is the debt instrument? That's his concept. So the bond is the loan, it embodies debt. It does not create ownership up to the value that the company emits that share, it is a loan. It is important that we do admit that we are talking about credit, because it is, of course, a factor in public debt. And when we are talking about the fact that, unfortunately, a very small number of entrepreneurs have had the opportunity to keep jobs because they have received support from the government, what does the government say to companies? Take a loan. And in the meantime, can't the company repay the loan if it doesn't have the income on the market that it needs to raise funds to repay the loan, and in such a seriously, completely shut down sector, can anyone imagine that today a responsible entrepreneur, of any magnitude, but let's say, micro- and small business, is starting to think in credit? Can you really imagine that? I can't imagine you guys actually meeting people like that. But while I'm talking about the rattles on the left-right side, although these two definitions are no longer in place; there was a government, a current government, that's much better, let me give you specific numbers. [[16.30]] There's a constant mention of IMF credit here. The IMF loan was taken up by the Gyurcsány government in November 2008, with HUF 1270 billion and HUF 839 billion from the EU. So these two items came together at the time so that, in the global economic crisis, the budget deficits could be replaced. He took this and lived long enough, in January 2010 there were 3386 billion IMF loans and HUF 760 billion of loans from the EU itself. At that time the Hungarian government debt was 19,93 billion. What happens to this loan? The Orbán government will repay the IMF loan by April 2016. We are talking about the period from 2007 to 2016, which means that the Gyurcsány government managed this loan in two and a half years, and then nearly six years later to pay back by raising the VAT to 27 percent, collecting the private pension fund, introducing an online cash register, showing that tax revenue is increasing year by year, i.e. by magnitude. I'm sorry, but what I can tell you is that from the government that can't repay an IMF loan of this magnitude in less than six years, I'm not fainted at all. By the way, by April 2016, the government debt will be HUF 25 245 billion. So the government debt increased by HUF 6,000 billion in these six years already. So what do you like to talk about? ! That he'd pay 3000 billion, but the government debt would rise by 6,000 billion? But here's another thing: because we only fought with the IMF, but there was also the EU. Interestingly, it was not propaganda to citizens that could be borrowed from the EU. The credit we took from the EU was HUF 760 billion in January 2010 and rose nicely. When we repaid the IMF loan, the EU loan was HUF 1137 billion, the other foreign loan. So unfortunately, the government constantly scares citizens with factors and topics and tries to get propaganda for itself, which cannot be done. You can try, of course, but sometimes, I think you have to pay attention to specific numbers. So what's happening today? There is still 884 billion forints of that particular EU loan. Interesting, that's not a problem for the government. But in the course of our struggle with the IMF, we were able to repay it in six and a half years, even though it had a huge surplus revenue for the budget, we came to the point of 30 925 billion public debt in April. Therefore, it can be concluded that no one can throw anything at each other, at least not from a budgetary point of view. It can't be done, please, that we keep trying to scare people against each other, completely misleading ourselves, to prove ourselves all-powerful. This kind of fiscal policy is no better than any other. I'd like to give you one last piece of data that really shows this system that you're holding together, your abnormalness. In 2007, the government debt-to-GDP ratio was last below 66 percent. In 2007! That was 65 percent. It is now 2020 and the 31 December 19th is 66,4 percent. So don't tell me if after 13 years we're still there, which was 13 years ago, and no one in this House is trying to make any of our citizens think they're doing well. He doesn't work well. He doesn't work well, so don't put on this permanent self-immolation. By the way, if the other side were on the steering wheel and we could know these numbers, I'd tell him. People are tired of trying to make political capital by pointing fingers at each other. Show people the numbers, show them the performance. In connection with the investments, I would just like to say that everyone is very happy about the many, many investments, the stadium not so much, because there would also be football players there, but everyone knows that the investment has to be done because everything is based on gold prices in Hungary, and the most can be saved from it. In the last 30 years, all governments have provided perfect evidence of this, so they are all flawed, and the other issue is that the previous government has neither money nor will for such investments, and this government has fulfilled the establishment of the Mészáros Lőrinc and its counterparts' oligarchic community. You have to spend it to get to others. I just want to ask you with all due respect. What is in this amending budget law is, of course, justified in so far as the laws are required, the legislative law, the budget, the mechanism for the functioning of the budget, that if there is to be a change in either one chapter or a redeployment, Parliament's approval is indeed required in certain circumstances. There's nothing wrong with that. There is a problem with the spirit of what created certain items of this bill, and that is why we have long since talked about the proposal itself, but about the other circumstances that do, whether you like it or not, rightly do not like it either by an opposition representative, and especially because it does not make it better for anyone to degrade the other. What I hate about the last ten years is that they keep saying we're better than the Gyurcsány government. Well, was someone waiting for it to get better? No! Everyone expected it to be good. I don't want a reference. I want good governance, I want them to stop pointing fingers at each other, I want them to show their own virtues, and I don't want them to relativeize the quality of your work by how the other one did it. Technically, you could also say that an electrician who breaks the house's electricity system is such a bad electrician, and then when the next electrician comes along, and that's just one of the fuses, and then he says I'm better than the last one, because the last one ruined the whole system. So, with all due respect, I would ask you to be a little more modest, a little more citizen-centred, and a little bit more effective than constantly pointing out the two sides to each other, because one thing is certain: citizens can only be the losers of this. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to respond in a few words to what you said. He said, in my mind, that fair answers to fair questions, and that you support them, and that he is determined to do so with all his might. Then I ask with due respect, because unfortunately, I have not received an answer from the government as to what development and the amount of resources have been taken from the Chapter IX, which local authorities have received from them, because the bill before us does not contain the relevant data, even though we know that it has been done. Here is my question to the government, and the question I have just asked is that the government's emergency measures help to combat the epidemic, protect the health of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, the economy and jobs. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] If you can tell me what amount of money has been taken from which municipality, what improvements have been made, I will be very grateful for it, and then we will indeed be able to achieve the fair answers to the question. When you talk about what subsidies have been allocated to various companies on a list, I think it is okay, but that is not the basic issue. It was not a question of what these companies had received from the opposition or even from me, but of what the government helped citizens who, as you said in your previous speech, worked from one moment to the next in a place with zero power, such as a cafe, and the next, they no longer had any income. What about our fellow countrymen in the service sector whose income has been zeroed from one moment to the next? Because we don't get answers to that, we haven't had answers in a long, long month. [[16.40]] I understand that Mr. Secretary of State refuses to accept my claim that the law is lying, but this law is not telling the truth. Of course, you can say that gently, you can say that you're lying. Dear Secretary of State, I have in front of me the annex to the bill, in which you, the representatives of the government, write the following: the cover for the wage increase previously decided by health workers and women in charge of health care. This has been added to the resources of the Anti-CDC Fund. With all due respect, when Parliament decided to do so, did it decide to defend itself against the epidemic? No. And when we talk about the expenditure of the Anti-Protective Fund, the wage increase of health workers and women, and this is presented as the release of the defense fund, I ask again: did the Hungarian Parliament decide to defend itself a year ago? No. Then it is a lie, because it does not present a defence amount under the title of defence, and I think that Hungarian citizens deserve to see reality. I understand that this is going to increase the cost of the epidemic, but that doesn't make it true. I can ask the same question about tourism developments. Did we just decide, or did the government just decide on tourism developments? No. These decisions were made long before the outbreak. But at the moment, are these items part of the expenditure on the control of the epidemic? Yeah, they're part of it. It's a lie then, because there are items presented against the epidemic and against economic control in a package which was not intended for it and, by the way, the decision was made on it during the period prior to the outbreak. That's what I'm talking about when I say we can't see clearly that the bill isn't telling the truth. I think that this, let's call the disagreement that exists between us, is extremely easy to remedy. I would ask the Honourable Secretary of State that the support of local authorities for my question on the chapter be answered in a precise and quantitative manner, and that the items which, in fact, have not been decided in the past on the control of the epidemic, not on the mitigation of the economic effects of the epidemic, should be named in summary terms, and that at this moment we will see clearly, and I do not have to say such serious sentences that this bill is not telling the truth. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-141	Dear House, I would like to make a small addition to Mr Csárdi's comment, who talked about what is happening to businesses that have had zero incomes over the past period, since they had to be kept closed. We know what happened. Today's news is that a company operating a restaurant and a pastry shop has submitted a request for reduced working time wage support to the Government Office of Budapest, who has been told that there has been insufficient evidence that the economic justification for working in reduced working hours is directly and closely motivated by the emergency. I know that there are government members who were able to go to restaurants during the crisis or during the epidemiological lockdown, but they are in a minority, and I would add that this condition was only included in the first issue of wage support. Many, including the opposition, have pointed out that this is absurdity, and fortunately this has already been removed from the newer version, only the government office has been forgotten to notify it. So, I have to say that it seems that even though what was not sufficient, but a good measure, has not been successfully implemented in order to save small companies, as, at least, according to the report of the paper, this is not an individual case, but a number of entrepreneurs have indicated a very similar problem. I think it might be worth a little more careful bragging to the government about this wage support program. Neither the specific cases nor the general figures show that this would be a particularly successful programme, whether compared with the surrounding countries, it is still a narrow-handed, small-scale programme of support for businesses, with unfortunately the consequences of which appear in employment figures, even in rising unemployment.
u2020-06-03-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State, if you would like to conclude now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I believe that in the proposal to amend the draft central budget law for 2020, the government has provided Parliament with a number of information, showing the extent to which all the measures are to be taken. I believe that in today's debate, it has perhaps been clarified that this represents a measure that is close to 20% of GDP. I hope that, like health protection, the resources for protecting the economy will reach their destination. With these measures, we will be able to save as many jobs as possible and ensure that we can gradually rebuild the jobs that will be lost as a result of the pandemic, which will require further government changes during the 2020 budget during the emergency period. What is needed is that if additional resources are still to be provided to protect health, the Anti-CDC Fund should be available, and that the necessary expenditure from the Economic Protection Fund should also be met. I hope that we can keep the Hungarian economic growth seen in recent years at a higher level than the average of the European Union. I hope that, even if there is a decline this year, this decline will be manageable in the European context, and I hope that, if we adopt the bill before you, we will be able to see a dynamically expanding Hungarian economy from 2021 onwards. The individual measures, in my view, are, on the basis of the principle of equal burden-sharing, only a burden to the organisations concerned that they can bear according to their financial means, so that, overall, we can protect most jobs as a result of these burdens. To do so, I ask for the support of the Honourable Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a joint general debate on the bill on emergency eradication and on the transitional arrangements for the end of the emergency and the bill on health preparedness until closure. Government referrals T/10747. and T/10748. The IT network of the House is accessible to all of us. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, A few days after the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the parliamentary assembly elected after the change of regime, we are starting to negotiate legislative proposals which are crucial to the functioning of the democratic rule of law and which show the viability and strength of Hungarian parliamentarism more clearly to posterity. Hungary and the Hungarian people have had a very difficult time. The fight against a coronal virus epidemic has taken its toll on everyone. Success has not failed, after the period of individual and group diseases, despite the alarming examples from abroad, we have managed to avoid mass diseases and to prepare health care for possible further waves of the epidemic. On the European stage, our country has been among the first to face the challenges effectively. As early as January, we set up the operational tribe when there were only sporadic cases in Europe and the European disease control centre did not consider the virus to be particularly dangerous for Europe. [[16.50]] Compared to the number of patients, we have taken tightening measures much earlier than other countries. As a result, the spread of the epidemic has been slowed down in Hungary. If I only point out the main measures, the school visits were prohibited by Hungary on the 12th, Austria on the 21st, Italy on the 31st day; the nightclubs were closed by Hungary on the 13th, France on the 54th day; the events were banned by Austria on the 14th, we on the 7th day. On 11 March 2020, the Government of Hungary announced a so-called special legal order under the relevant provisions of the Fundamental Law, and on 30 March it also asked the Parliament to extend the emergency situation in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law. From the first infected, the emergency was announced by Hungary on the 7th day and, for example, by Italy on the 38th day. For every democratic rule of law, the state may find itself facing a situation that cannot be dealt with in normal operation. At that time, in all democratic rule of law, the so-called special legal order is introduced within the framework laid down in the Constitution, in compliance with procedural rules. Therefore, the constitution of each country contains rules for these special legal situations. The specificity of each of these special legal situations allows for the introduction of a non-normal state operating order in the event of social and natural phenomena, when the so-called protected constitutional value, such as human life, health or property security, is in mass danger and these risks cannot otherwise be eliminated in the normal functioning of the State. Even under a special legal order, the Fundamental Law cannot be suspended in Hungary, so rules which contradict the Fundamental Law cannot be adopted at the same time, and if the conditions for the publication of the special legal order no longer exist, then this legal order must be terminated by the introductory body. These two guarantees are not only hanging in the air but also being enforced by the Constitutional Court, whose operation cannot be restricted even in such a case. As we made clear at the first moment, and the Parliament is free to decide that it agrees with the government's assessment of the situation, and at any time, I repeat, at any time it could decide or decide to withdraw the consent in order to extend the emergency. This right of Parliament cannot be limited at all. It is without doubt, and this is also one of the most natural things in the world in every democratic rule of law that this right does not, let us say, belong to a opposition dwarf faction, but the majority of the Parliament can decide whether to withdraw, but it still belongs to Parliament, not to the government. However, the end of the mandate could not be determined when it was given because if Parliament had become inoperable because of the mass of diseases, the further extension of the mandate would not have been legally possible after the expiry of the deadline, and we would have been in an out-of-law, chaotic state at the height of the epidemic. And every reasonable person wanted to avoid that. The responsibility for the organisation and operation of defence is also the government's responsibility in every democratic rule of law in a situation of danger. In such cases, powers and resources should also be allocated to this responsibility. However, this can only be done in accordance with constitutional order, as has been the case in this case. A number of people are obscenely silent about the report published by the Venice Commission that, among the constitutional guarantees on the special legal order introduced in the context of the coronal virus epidemic, the body considers the very important ones that the Hungarian constitutional arrangement provides. The advisory body of the Council of Europe has reviewed the practice of the specific legal order states announced throughout Europe per nation. In the course of the investigation, the committee approached the relationship between the special legal order and fundamental rights from the point of view of cultural peculiarities, along the principles of every house. The opinion of the Venice Commission has been published recently to us, to our political community, on the side of sobriety, is no surprise. However, let us not listen to the fact that the responsibility of not only the government, but also the Members of Parliament, is great, because they gave the mandate, they have confirmed the measures that have been taken so far, and now they decide, that is to say, you also decide to withdraw the mandate. As the Act on the Protection of Crown Virus, which would be repealed by one of the legislative proposals we are discussing, I quote that Parliament is aware of the need to take responsible decisions in times of distress, and the measures taken so far and potentially before us appear to be unusual and foreign restrictions, but compliance with them can be the most important reserve of the Hungarian government. Joint action, national cooperation, health and law enforcement workers and all the victims involved are the cornerstones of the widest possible national unity. Members of Parliament may contribute by adopting the proposal to the establishment and maintenance of the necessary national unity in times of distress. So far, the quote. Unfortunately, it is now in the category of historical fact that the Hungarian opposition has not contributed to this national unity, and has accused the government of building a dictatorship as a ten-year tradition. There were no false rumors about bombing international forums, the bodies of the European Union and certain other international forums. There have been such clear false rumors about our country that during the emergency, Parliament will not meet, although we, too, have debated here week after week, and we have done so in an increased timeframe. I've never once heard from you that at least this obvious lie has been denied abroad. Nor has the opposition spoken against the fact that, in the meantime, the European Parliament did not function as before, and many EU Member States have suspended, for example, the application of the European Convention on Human Rights. Meanwhile, the time at home, the thoughtful measures, as laid down in the Fundamental Law, is clear and clear to everyone, and the government's political decision has been confirmed. Not with the angry opinion of journalists and opponents, but with the authority of the Hungarian people, the crisis can be dealt with in their interest. Therefore, I can inform you in this context that the coronal virus epidemic is now decreasing in our country, on 4 May the number of active infected began to decline, on 2 June there were 1229 people, 2160 people recovered from the disease, and unfortunately 532 souls were lost until 2 June. The number of coronal virus tests carried out is approaching 190,000. Today, we also know that the number of infected people has not increased significantly after the recent mitigations, and that there are different comparisons between the number of people who died in the coronal virus epidemic, but, for example, in an international comparison per 100,000 people. This figure is 83 for Belgium, 58 for the United Kingdom, 43 for France, 43 for Sweden, 35 for the Netherlands, 8 for Austria, and 5 for Romania, and 5 for Hungary. The government has also taken economic protection measures in time, and we have already made decisions in the first two weeks of the epidemic that have served to keep jobs, and that businesses can survive this difficult period at the lowest cost. More than one million workers have already managed to provide assistance in some form through these measures. The focus of our thinking, as has been said in the previous debate, is jobs and work. The main goal, we have repeatedly said, is that as many jobs as the virus destroys, we need to create so many jobs. But, of course, we must not weaken our financial defence capabilities in such a way that, for example, we cannot defend ourselves in the event of a speculation attack. Our aim is to maintain Hungary's financial independence in addition to focusing on the control of the epidemic. During the period of the special legal order, the government adopted 140 government decrees in order to achieve the above-mentioned objectives. Among the government regulations issued pursuant to Article 53 (2) of the Fundamental Law, which we could have issued without the Crown Virus Protection Act, that is about a quarter of the government regulations. So we could not have taken about three-quarters of those decisions without the possibilities provided for in the Coronary Virus Protection Act. I would like to mention to you a few measures that we could not have taken without the authority given by this law. Some economic protection measures. We need to think about practically most of the economic protection action plan here. It's a pay moratorium. Extension of child care benefits, extension of child rearing allowance, extension of childcare fee. The various public burdens, free parking, extension of the validity of documents, decisions on higher education, decisions on public education, cases of controlled notifications, civil proceedings, criminal proceedings, infringement proceedings, enforcement rules, restraining rules, suspension of enforcement. [[17.00]] We would not have been able to create new infringement situations; there would not have been a ban on termination of rental contracts; in the context of the official quarantine ordered, the launch of the quarantine application for its control would not have been possible; and we would not have been able to decide on the facilitations of copyright and patent law. In contrast to Hungary's emergency measures, there has been an unprecedented, coordinated political campaign and hysteria within and outside the borders of Hungary. Although unfounded attacks have fortunately not affected the success of the epidemiological defence, historical responsibility is borne by those who have questioned these measures in the most difficult time in the struggle. In light of all this, I confess to you that it is particularly difficult to say what it is now when the government is proposing to abolish and restore special powers. The main message of the two-month campaign of slander surrounding the control of the epidemic was that Hungary became a dictatorship with the regulation's governance. What dictatorship is it that voluntarily renounces its powers after two months? I'll tell you, honourable Members, nothing. That's what common sense and formal logic dictate. I am afraid that, in the light of such precedents, we cannot expect much from the debate of the legislative proposals before us. No matter what the government does, the opposition has been making the same accusations for ten years. It won't be any different now. It doesn't matter that everything is the opposite of what's being accused of, monomanic accusations about dictatorship, overpower, the death of democracy, I think they will continue. In the reflections of Marcus Aurelius there are a few lines, and I quote: "If, however, my fellow man interferes with my own particular task, man will be one of the indifferent phenomena in my eyes, such as the sun, wind, or forest. Because it transforms every obstacle of reason, transforms it into a direct goal. This way, the obstacle to action becomes action, the road from the road from the road from the road to the road.-- With this attitude, namely that the opposition is constantly putting obstacles in the way of the government's work, it is possible to fully marginalise, in a sense, the Hungarian opposition has become an indifferent phenomenon from the point of view of defence to Marcus Aurelius. In fact, the situation may be even worse: it seems that what they are blocking is in fact the right direction. If they're against something, that's basically what it's worth doing. This is how the Hungarian opposition becomes an obstacle. Dear Parliament, On 26 May 2020, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill on emergency eradication, which aims to lay the ground for the removal of the emergency as a special legal order in view of the stabilisation of the epidemiological situation. The bill also repeals the Coronary Virus Protection Act. In the event of termination of an emergency, the government's regulations in the context of the special legal order should therefore expire on that day at the time of the termination of the emergency. However, the requirement for legal certainty requires clear and predictable transitional arrangements to be established in the areas covered by emergency legislation which by their nature go beyond the emergency. It is also essential that the marginal conditions of the epidemiological control required after the emergency has ended continue to be ensured. In a number of areas, the proposal aims at bringing the measure taken in the Government Decree during the emergency to a legal level, including in the following areas. Strengthening economic and economic recovery measures at legal level, such as strengthening the benefits in certain services sectors most exposed to the effects of the coronal virus epidemic, maintaining a moratorium on payment by 31 December 2020 and ensuring tax and contribution reductions by the end of June 2020. We also lay down rules based on the Italian regulatory model for the control of foreign investments at a legal level, under which foreign investors can continue to invest in Hungary, but by the end of the year high value investment activity must be reported. Strengthening and maintaining social and family support measures, such as the extension of child benefits, at the statutory level by the end of June 2020. Maintain conditions to facilitate health care, such as more flexibility in the provision of medicines and the use of telemedicine. Temporary maintenance of transitional rules for this year in the context of public education, vocational training and higher education, such as the digital curriculum. Provision of conditions to facilitate certain administrative procedures, such as the extension of the period of validity of expired documents, the fixing of facilitations in relation to compliance with tax obligations. The introduction of exceptional measures in the event of an emergency in connection with civil proceedings and criminal proceedings with certain procedures and the provision of an appropriate regulatory transition. The proposal also lays down specific rules on so-called epidemiological preparedness. In the context of the epidemiological preparedness, the government in a health crisis, which already exists in the Hungarian legal system, can make special rules, but these are not to be confused with the legal institution of the emergency and with the authority granted in it. Health crisis and emergency preparedness are not special legal orders, so the constitutional standard for the limitation of fundamental rights is the same as the standard applicable in the ordinary legal order pursuant to Article I (3) of the Fundamental Law. The restriction of fundamental rights is based on the Health Act, establishing requirements of necessity and proportionality. One of the government regulations issued pursuant to Article 53 (2) of the Fundamental Law, which could be taken as a measure in its content in the event of an outbreak of disease preparedness, is roughly one third of the government regulations, although this is obviously a matter of thorough constitutionality consideration, but I specifically asked colleagues to review the situation from this point of view, and they have reached this conclusion. The bill also provides for when and how different health and economic measures will expire. I would also like to inform you very briefly about this, because they are of a broad public interest. Departure from the provisions of the Labour Code until 1 July; enforcement procedures continue from 1 July; further benefits which I have mentioned, children, children, family allowances until 1 July; transitional periods for benefits linked to disability and changed working capacity would also be until 1 July; socho and contribution allowances, so-called cadastral tax benefits, would last until the end of June, i.e. until 30 June, under the proposal. The tourism development contribution benefit would be maintained by the end of this year, as the legislation on property protection, as I have already mentioned. The prohibition of termination of lease contracts by a landlord would run until 30 June 2020. The digital education of schools outside the classroom runs until 15 June 2020. The parking fee shall not be payable until 1 July 2020 throughout the country, but the normal course of business shall then be restored throughout the country. The personal duty of job seekers is suspended until 31 August 2020. The obligation to declare the supervisory fee in the hospitality sector and the payment of the first instalment shall run until 30 September 2020. The deadline for compliance with reporting obligations under the Accounting Act is also 30 September. The credit-payment moratorium would run until 31 December 2020. The tourism development contribution and the tourist tax shall not be payable until 31 December 2020. The derogation from the rules on the civil code applies to legal persons and non-legal entities, as proposed, until 31 December 2020; as would the proposal extend the derogation from the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the rules on asylum. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government of Hungary, I would like to thank everyone for the national cooperation that has developed over the past period, with which we have managed to manage the first wave of the pandemic successfully. I would like to thank everyone who was directly involved in the defense. We continue to say that there is no place for political debates on defence, only for cooperation. Hungarian democracy and parliamentarism passed the test 30 years after the change of system, while we did well in the field of epidemiological protection. We thank the Members for their support so far. I would also ask you to support the current proposals. And those who have not supported our work so far, this time I would like to ask for calmness and common sense. I trust the constructive work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2020-06-03-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. With all due respect, I'm asking Mr. Group Leader because it's still on my desk that maybe two of you will give the speech. [[For signal:]] No. Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is István Bajkai.
u2020-06-03-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We've had hard, trying months of our lives behind us. The social and economic challenges caused by the corona virus epidemic not only put enormous burdens on the shoulders of decision-makers, but I would also place a great deal of patience on all citizens, putting up with difficulties, burdens and discipline. Thank you to everyone who has been involved in the control and control of the epidemic, and has worked, many in the number one front line. I believe that we Hungarians have taken a good exam, and once again we have shown that if the problem knocks on our door, we can stick together. Hungary has taken strict measures in time, as a result of which it is one of the few countries where the period of mass diseases did not occur, so that the spread of the virus has now been fully controlled. With a calm heart, we are successfully over the first stage of defense. However, the epidemiological alert must be maintained unchanged, and we do not know how, when, in what form the virus will attack again. Dear Parliament, The fight against the spread of the coronal virus, as has already been said, has posed an unprecedented challenge for the whole world, including our country. Traditional, common tools have proved inadequate in health and economic protection against the epidemic. Therefore, on 11 March 2020, the Government decided quickly, timely and decisively to declare an emergency in accordance with Article 53 (1) of the Fundamental Law. However, according to the basic legislative standard, the government's emergency legislation could have remained in force for 15 days. In order to continue the fight against the virus and to protect the health of citizens, the National Assembly is the 12th of 2020 on the control of the so-called coronal virus. By adopting a law, the Government was authorised to establish and maintain its regulations containing extraordinary measures even if Parliament could not or could not meet because of the spread of the human epidemic. We can thank the Creator, the Good God, for the fact that the legislation was able to complete its work, so the Parliament will now withdraw the authority granted to the government, alive by the law already mentioned. I would like to recall that the Balliberals have been saying from the beginning that this law is the death of the rule of law. Of course, we know that's what they always say. They deny reality, and they just lie. As you learn from teachers, as a principle, we not only lied in the morning, night and night, but lie in the morning, night and night. [[Gergely Harvest, Dr. Bernadett Wind: Classics only!]] I was able to quote you exactly. [[The president's ringing the bell. Intercoms.]] Several times, the government has been asked why this mandate is not only until June or the end of another definite period. I would also like to emphasise that the government, in response to the opinions of science and health authorities, simply could not give a definite date, given that the course and outcome of this virus could not be predicted by anyone. We have repeatedly underlined this, we have repeatedly said that the government will take only measures under the extraordinary legal order that are essential to protect the health of Hungarian people and to overcome the negative economic challenges caused by the epidemic, in compliance with the conditions of necessity and proportionality. And here, in a democratically based state, as is usually the case, the legislative authority now withdraws the authority given to the executive body. I would like to make it clear that, under similar circumstances, all States have the right to take extraordinary measures to protect their citizens. Those measures should be provisional, necessary and proportionate and the possibility of regular review should be provided. The measures taken by the Government met these criteria without exception. In our country, Parliament was able to exercise its powers of control in relation to extraordinary measures. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the proposal before us is to establish, in view of the stabilisation of the epidemiological situation, the public-law situation: the abolition of the special emergency legal order and the repeal of the Coronary Virus Protection Act. Please allow me, however, to note a few things regarding the attitude of the opposition side. It was sad to see, it was sad to see that Balliberal parties could not be expected at all. They also did not support the law establishing the conditions for effective protection. Moreover, they did not engage in defense, but constantly attacked the government and the experts involved in the control of defense during the time of the emergency. But now, at the end of the emergency, their roaring alarm bells did not stop. It is surprising that the left is criticizing the preparedness of the health care system and the work of the operational staff, with one in eight working beds being removed in hospitals during their administration, 650 billion forints were taken from health care, and thousands of doctors and health workers were dismissed. If the left could have continued to think about all the things that he did in health after 2010, we wouldn't have had a chance to fight during the epidemic. As long as the government wanted to provide and ensure the livelihood of families through means of job protection, wage support and tax reduction, what does the left do? In the municipalities under their leadership, they release you from guts, raise taxes and reduce wages. Quote: their well-established methods have already increased unemployment and poverty. I think it's been a pain in everyone's ass. He lives here in our memory today. Summa summarum: the corona virus epidemic has fully demonstrated the difference between the Balliberals where Jobbik is listed and the government's crisis management. Dear House, Of course, we cannot go without saying about legal certainty as one of the most important cornerstones of the rule of law. The principle of legal certainty requires that the termination of an emergency and the expiry of emergency government regulations should not take place in the absence of appropriate transitional provisions. The T/10748. The main objective of the bill is to ensure that, in the areas covered by emergency legislation, Parliament regulates legal relations or legitimate expectations and legal conditions in the event of an emergency, so that the regulatory transition is clear, clear and predictable, and its change is surrounded by legal guarantees, taking into account the principle of protection of trust. For example, according to what has been said, the proposal continues to provide that, in the absence of authorisation, activities subject to authorisation can be exercised within a short period of time after notification, but the draft law proposes to facilitate the exercise of the right of the applicant by a general general in order to ensure that activities that can be exercised on the basis of an authorisation can be carried out on the basis of a notification. [[17.20]] In addition, the authorisation will not be fully implemented, since the protection of the public interest in a number of cases can only be effectively protected by preventive means, so that, where appropriate, authorisation remains. This eliminates the fact that, in the case of activities which pose a potential risk to the community, the State is not only able to act ex post. Dear Parliament, Thanks to the sacrifice of Hungary's excellent health professionals and those fighting in the front line, as well as the discipline of its citizens, it has succeeded in overcoming the first phase of its defence, I could say that we have all done our work. The opposition, however, used the entire mandate law for political hysteria without stopping, the worse it is, the better the Gyurcsányi order, and their traditions going back to Béla Kun appear to be shown every time. The rapporteur described in detail the main criteria of the two legislative proposals submitted, and I also tried to highlight the key elements. In this way, taking into account what has been said, I can say that the Fidesz Group fully supports the proposal tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the governing parties and sporadic applause for the opposition. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We were so excited.]]
u2020-06-03-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we thank all those involved in the protection during the coronal virus epidemic, all the workers, the residents who contributed by any action to fighting the virus that was truly unpredictable in Hungary in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic was difficult to determine. We owe thanks and gratitude to those workers, whether social, health or law enforcement workers, who, in this troubled life situation, have put almost everything they have under it in these few months, and have devoted all their work to making the defense more successful. The emergency and the situation created by the corona virus in Hungary has not yet passed, the situation is currently giving us the opportunity to clarify its legal part. I think it is important to point out that in today's debate, if someone is following him, do not assume that all the dangers in Hungary have been eliminated. It is very important that the tightening measures of the past months should make sense and make sense if the coronal virus does not return, or if it returns in any way, then people should be able to defend themselves more successfully again. So it can be said that the current bill is actually about the coronal virus and it is about the protection against the coronal virus in so far as, legally speaking, a phase of protection can be closed. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the authorisation given or given, we can say that we respectfully thank you for the authorisation given back, we accept it on our behalf. It is about that historic situation, and the historical situation shows that the government should not have actually brought this mandate to itself, because it has been in a position for both the government and the parliament all along, and you have just said that we could have had a chance together, perhaps together, to achieve a better and more successful defence in the debates we have spent here. Despite the fact that the original idea was only to bring in legislation that was necessary for defence in recent months, Parliament could afford to work above this. Parliament has been in place all along, regardless of the fact that many people in the pro-government benches have said that it is almost impossible to call it together. With all due respect, everyone was a partner in giving Parliament the opportunity to meet as long as possible. With regard to the two laws, which are now being discussed together, the substantive issues are addressed in the proposal on transitional rules relating to the cessation of an emergency and on health preparedness. By the way, the bill is about a lot of things, especially the rules that have become part of our lives over the last few weeks, months, and some of which will remain part of our lives for a certain period of time after the coronal virus epidemic. Many of these will help and, of course, many will not help the coming period, there are many useful and very many small, very many small, many small, annoying provisions, but we all have to face a changed situation. They have in common that the goal, in essence, is to make people's lives a little easier after a radical change has taken place in March in all of our lives. It could make it easier and easier even if life is a little more fearful; when we are faced with a huge employment and employment crisis affecting tens of thousands and even hundreds of thousands of people, when livelihoods disappear from one moment to another in tourism, catering and other sectors. In fact, it could make our lives a little easier even when many are still waiting for the order they used to have, whether it was health or education. And indeed, in addition to the lighter provisions, there is a great deal missing: greater help for workers, employers, more money, more opportunities; a lack of thought-out rebooting and even sub-financing of health care; a lack of what I think the virus and the epidemic have given me, a long-term solution to health problems within the right framework, supplementing the functioning of health care with money. Allow me to share my own thought here on the fact that the epidemic has brought an extremely difficult situation into our lives, but it has given us the opportunity to sort out one of the most difficult and anxious sectors, health care in some way. This is the area in which, over the last 30 years, political consensus has not essentially developed between the Hungarian parties, whether it was right-wing or left-wing governance, but now there is the possibility, assessing the difficulties that the corona virus epidemic has shown from point to point in the last month, and exposing the shortcomings that it has flashed, in one word, which the Hungarian health system carries, we cannot deny, and it is quite clear that there is something that the Hungarian government and Hungarian public life have to do in this connection. This would be the opportunity for the reform of Hungarian health care in a good way, whether it is about funding or about the reorganization of healthcare, to be stepped up. This new mandate 2.0 bill and the so-called take-back and take-over rules should also be about how health can be restored, how it can be refurbished, so that it can compete with technology challenges, the fact that society is aging, the related challenges and the financing constraints. After the detour, however, it is important to mention what the matter is when we talk about what it lacks, what it actually lacks. This is the mandate 2.0, which is sufficiently suspicious. Not only is the wording suspicious of the health crisis that you are putting into this proposal, it is not only the wording that is suspicious but also the intention behind it. It was never the real solution, but the communication solution that was important for you. We can now see that the focus is not actually on the substantive defence in the second stage, but rather the aim is to strengthen a potential government narrative. In essence, what would be missing is the rules of the health crisis mandate, which is the delegation law 2.0, which is certainly due to Viktor Orbán's fall in love with extraordinary warfare so much that he no longer releases these rules, but wraps them in a new robe. The situation is also clear, ladies and gentlemen, although this could be a substantive debate, and there is some division in society that there will be a second wave of the coronal virus epidemic. It is undisputed that we must prepare for the next wave and for a forthcoming defence situation, but honourable fellow Members, it is not legally, and especially not so, that we need to prepare for it, but with instruments and resources, and not with extreme powers, but with the fact that we know exactly what hospital, which social institution and which law enforcement body needs to do if a situation similar to that which came up in the spring, we need to be more successful in taking the obstacles and protecting as many people as possible from a next epidemic situation. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Wednesday 3 June 2020 134/2. Number Parliamentary Diary [[17 .30]] We do not need a special mandate to prepare institutions for, for example, screening or testing, prevention or hygiene. It is quite clear that all we need right now is one thing, time and instrument, and not a legal instrument that we need. You don't have to, just attention, conscious preparation, something like that to get through a wave like this. Let me also put a few thoughts on the ritual of time. Why do health crisis rules require a deadline? Everyone is talking about lack of deadlines, and when the opposition suggested that we set some time limits, a number of versions were said. However, there is now a six-month deadline in the health crisis, which is essentially just an indicator, as it is accompanied by a reporting obligation or an extension obligation. The criteria for the extension are essentially decided by the government itself, in this case, and the six months is only about listening to a report on the Committee on Welfare, in which several of my fellow Members are members. I think that this ritual of time will stand up to it. Six months is an excessive and excessive timeline for crisis management. In addition, this means a rubber rule, which also does not help, and here is the basic concept of believing you that you really want to prepare for the next wave. But there is another reading, not just because you need a rubber rule or you don't have to; in fact, you may need a rubber rule or a delegation law 2.0 because you may and this is a reading that you fear that you will no longer be satisfied with 133 brave Members in the autumn to give the government again the authority you want in the bad economy. Of course, this is just an interpretation, we wish that there should not be an economically bad situation so that there will not be a labour crisis and an employer crisis that could hit the country by the massive loss of people's confidence in the government here, and we want Hungary to be in the right position economically, but there are no good signs in this regard. For each area, it can be said that the purpose of the bill is to ensure that, in the event of a health crisis, the organisations and law enforcement organisations set out in the title can be applied differently from their normal management and management systems. Mostly they undermine workers' rights and extend the rights of action. On a political basis, it is clear that violence organisations, as the pillars of the state's operation, are trying to maintain direct control in the event of an emergency. By doing so thoroughly, it seems that they are doing so effectively. In view of the fact that organisations operating in a system of command continue to dictatorize in order to impose a health crisis, I do not believe that this is a real Hungarian word, which was written here, however, the fact is that in a real emergency, the aim of social order maintenance is an acceptable objective, an acceptable expectation, which can be used to overwrite employees' or employers' rights in the classic sense. In the administrative, public-law section, we find a number of regulations, such as the extension of the parking already mentioned, which could be debated. We know that the possibility of free parking has caused problems to the municipalities on the one hand, because this is a loss of resources, but we also know that it has less impact on people in the countryside, but it also causes considerable pollution in cities or even downtown now that more and more people are approaching their jobs with motor vehicles. Not only can you park downtown, but you have to circle more and more, more and more people are trying to get close to their jobs here thanks to free parking. Thus, it is now and therefore perhaps an earlier date should have been chosen to withdraw free parking, having a substantially more harmful effect than it had previously had a better effect. It's a regular mantra on the part of the pro-government representatives that the government has successfully defended itself. Ladies and gentlemen, no, the government has successfully defended itself, the Hungarian people have successfully defended themselves, and the Hungarian authorities have successfully defended themselves, because they have paid attention to the inhabitants in the first place, they have provided the community with tools. But let us consider, ladies and gentlemen, what would have happened if the success of the defence had actually depended on the advice of the members of the government? Would we have been successful then, and would the Hungarians have been able to defend themselves if they had listened to Gergely Gulyás, who said that at the beginning of the epidemic we could have been infected, or could the nearly a hundred people who attended the press conference have quietly infected themselves? Would the defense have been successful if it had depended on the government's defense if we had listened to Miklós Kásler, who said that testing was not necessary for screening? Or Muller Cecilia, who says you don't have to wear a mask? Or would Viktor Orbán's opinion have been the guiding principle when all the parties of Parliament against him, when it came to closing schools, said that schools should close, to which Viktor Orbán presented the defence that if schools are closed, there are no children in schools, that teachers should be sent on unpaid leave? Would this defense have been successful when Viktor Orbán sends teachers on unpaid leave of school? And would the defense have been successful when the municipalities, for example, did not send the residents masks? Because what happened all over the country? Péter Szijjártó stood up in Parliament every Monday, told me how many tons, how many thousands, how many millions of defences had arrived in Hungary, and in the meantime the masks were actually delivered to the population by the municipalities from their own purchases, from their own resources, and I think this is the modern-day tragedy of the local government, that you have taken money from them, and even next year, money will be taken from them. But we would also have a better proposal, honourable Members. Even if certain rules of the health crisis were acceptable and its legal reasoning seemed acceptable, there are some amendments that we recommend to consider because perhaps the broken confidence in the government, which may have been going on for ten years, but in recent years may have become even deeper on the opposition side of society and on the opposition side of the parties, that might be refurbished at some level. I am thinking of amendments, fellow Members, which involve the largest body of this organisation, the plenum itself, in the reporting obligation to impose a health crisis. Let there be a ministerial account of how the government orders it, in this case, on the proposal of Muller Cecília, the health crisis, so that it can defend itself. Not only should we be informed that something appeared in the Hungarian Gazette, and when asked, we do not get an answer to that question, but also that there should be a responsible, accountable and questionable member of the government who reports here on the basis of what statistics, what data and what numbers have been assigned to the defence situation that you are planning. The same applies to the fact that not a narrower committee of Parliament, the People's Welfare Committee, should discuss why this situation has been extended after six months, but should be discussed by the Parliament's plenum. That hour, that hour and a half, believe me, fellow Members, will be worth discussing. In fact, if you are so keen to consult, you can take this seriously by consulting Parliament and Members of Parliament. In fact, let's get to know him, and that is the most important, the statistics that give us cause. For here we are perhaps one of the biggest problems, the biggest lack of confidence in the whole epidemic was the fact that, on the part of the government, after you have removed the possibility for the media to ask properly, and then in the Parliament, we heard only the meaningless answers, a lot of statistics, not only the Members, but also the ordinary people could not get to know a lot of data. I remember that committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen, when we asked the Secretary of State in the Committee on Welfare when they are now planning to publish the territorial distribution of diseases and deaths. Madam Secretary of State said that it wouldn't go away, even if we could do it tomorrow. And it was almost two weeks before people could see this data. These data were and could have been the ones that aroused confidence in people when they said yes, I see and believe that our society can successfully defend itself. But no one noticed it in its process, and this is how many people, more and more people, questioned the information, the statistics that the government produced. [[17.40]] To quote you a recent poll: it cannot be a coincidence that the greater majority of Hungarian society, based on public opinion polls, completely believes that the government used the statistics for political reasons or used them for political reasons. Even 23 percent of the Fidesz voters think so, not to mention the opposition. Fellow Members! At least that proves it, and I don't know if you need to throw it up in your eyes or put it on your face, but you didn't choose your steps correctly by not choosing the most public in the fight against the epidemic. I think that was the mistake when pretty much everyone was flying blind and waiting for the data on how bad the problem was and waiting for what data was coming and what to do. These could have been the ones that could undermine, for example, some people's ability to defend themselves properly. It was very different, and I'm sorry if I'm reaching too long, but there was a very different rhythm and frequency of defense here nationwide. I live in the countryside, I live in Karcagon, I had the privilege or I had the opportunity to see the defence of rural Hungary and to see Budapest too because of my work. For some reason, the vast majority of people in the countryside have not been effectively protected by masks, testing or even keeping the right distance. In hindsight, we were very lucky that no more trouble had occurred in these rural settlements or even villages than could have happened otherwise. It was very different, and the lack of these data supported this, and this fed the fact that many people did not believe in protection, however, the vast majority of municipalities did the right thing by trying to ensure maximum protection for them. The aim of the bill is to give confidence in dealing with the future health crisis by seeking its purpose beyond its technical and legal purpose. And while I mentioned that there would be another way to prepare, prepare the health or social sphere, I believe that the trust that you want to give us with health crisis management rules can no longer be restored. And I'm not talking about the fact that you can't prove to the opposition that you can be trusted in this situation, but because you've been keeping secrets before, or denying the error of some wrong decisions, I'm not sure that trust can be regained. Fellow Members! It seems that the trust that you want to give me is going to be a very difficult procession for society. And one more interesting aspect: I think the government hasn't taken the authority and can't really give it back. The mandate was that you, in your own conscience, should have lived under the authority of ethos to listen to everyone, to involve everyone, but you locked the door on yourselves, you agreed to be responsible for everything in one person. The phase of establishing a part of the responsibility is complete, now comes the much more difficult part, the economic and employee part. I wish for you to be transparent at the next stage, to be transparent in this, and to explain to people much better, much more than in the previous stage of health protection, what is happening and what is going on in this country, because it is in the best interests of all of us. The fact that you couldn't be trusted for a while is largely because of you, but the fact that you will have social confidence in the future is now in your hands. I suggest you take that mandate and then you take it to the level of confidence, because if you don't, then we're all facing the worst scenario for the economy, and it's going to be the most painful for all of us. In closing, allow me not to engage in extra mud throwing, but to thank again those who have been involved in this defense, in the last few months, with their own families or even their own livelihoods, thanking those who have been able to stand in the most dangerous situation. I trust that in the future they will receive the appreciation and recognition of society, even the government, and they will be treated and treated historically in their place. We are asking and we want you to do so. The current delegation law is essentially a good kind of parliamentary debate, but it is not yet suitable for resolving the situation. Make sure that there is no economic, employer and employee epidemic and crisis in Hungary after the health crisis or the health epidemic crisis. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP Group has indicated that the group's position will be presented by representatives of István Hollik and Lőrinc Nacsa. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-06-03-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We can now say that Hungary has successfully completed the first phase of the fight against the epidemic. There are basically three reasons for this, I think. The first is that, thanks to the Crown Virus Act, the Government was given the extraordinary authority necessary for it to be able to take the necessary measures quickly. The other reason was that the government based its rapid decisions on the opinion of the epidemiological experts, so that professionally sound and evidence-based decisions were made in all cases. Thirdly, the success of the fight against the epidemic was that these measures, as they are truly calm on a professional basis, were accepted, understood and supported by the vast majority of Hungarians, and therefore complied with these measures. Indeed, here is a thank you to all the specialists who participated in the epidemiological defense, especially the epidemiological experts, the staff of the operational tribe, doctors, nurses, but of course also to the teachers who were able to get all their strength together to switch to digital education and to further educate their own Hungarian children. The Crown Virus Act was necessary for all of this. Anyone who says otherwise simply isn't telling the truth. So if we ask the question of the need for effective and successful defence to adopt the Crown Virus Act, then we can answer this question with a clear yes. Just because it is Minister of State Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, who also said that three quarters of government measures could not have been taken if the Crown Virus Act had not been adopted by Parliament. There has been constant opposition criticism before the adoption of the Crown Virus Act, of course, that the government will go beyond this mandate. We can say that it has not gone beyond its scope, that the measures have always been necessary and proportionate, and have always been all about the control of the epidemic. We can conclude, however, that this is indeed a parentheses remark, that the Fundamental Law itself has also passed a good test, and that not every country can say that it has a constitution, a Fundamental Law, which also sets out completely clear rules for such extraordinary situations. On the other hand, this was the case in Hungary: the Fundamental Law well defined the case in which the extraordinary legal order should be applied and how it should be applied, and on this basis, the Crown Virus Act was also brought before the National Assembly. So, overall, Hungary has successfully completed the first phase of the fight against the epidemic. We can also see that this is not only a government or a pro-government claim, but also the facts, as we have also reacted among the first in an international comparison. The emergency was announced in Hungary on the 7th day, while in Italy on the 38th day. Prohibition of school visits in Hungary on the 12th day after the infection, in Austria on the 21st day, in Italy on the 34th day. The border closure was ordered by Hungary on the 13th day, Austria on the 24th, Spain on the 45th day. [[17.50]] If you look at the cases of the coronal virus and the numbers of infection and death, you can come to the same conclusion. Obviously, a human life is a lot, and the loss of every human life is a tragedy, but we still need to see that the mortality rate in Hungary is extremely low per million people. To give you just one or two comparative examples: in the UK, there are 593 deaths for 1 million, in Spain, in Italy, in Italy, in France, 432, but also in Germany, 103, and in Belgium, 833. In contrast, this figure is slightly more than 54 in Hungary. Speaking of defense and the coronal virus, we cannot go without saying the attitude of the opposition, the left, in this situation. Unfortunately, we had to experience that the behaviour of the left has not changed in the last ten years. Although the epidemiological situation was extraordinary, and we hoped that this extraordinary situation would finally bring us together on important matters, but not on important matters, but on the left, as it has done in the last ten years, not constructively, not to improve criticisms, which would otherwise be the opposition's concern, but to gain power, it launched a total attack on government and government measures. After all, we can say that the situation was extraordinary, but nothing extraordinary has happened, because that is exactly what we have experienced from the left in the last ten years. If we remember after 2010, when the government said that Hungary could recover from the difficult situation by asking everyone for a common burden and therefore introducing the bank tax, the left, the socially sensitive left, somehow suddenly found itself on the banks' side and attacked the government. But the same was the case with the reduction of the rent, it was somehow the socially sensitive left that did not support the reduction of the rent, only to attack the government. But, of course, the most striking situation before the epidemic was in relation to migration, when the fence with the support of a large majority of people and the rejection of the compulsory resettlement quota were also attacked by the left, just in order not to reach agreement on something that is important to the country. And they did these attacks by often confronting reality and debating the country's achievements. And even when the left-wing opposition didn't realize that when the government, the government, was attacked when they intended to attack the government, they didn't attack the government, but attacked the epidemiological experts whose opinions were constantly heard by the government, the operational tribe kept meeting, and these government measures were always taken by listening to the epidemiological experts, taking their views into account. Unfortunately, we cannot go without saying that during this period there were constant attacks and false rumors. It is enough to think that Szabó Timea, co-president of the Dialogue, made the inability to claim that Hungary has the highest mortality rate in the world, so that I have just read you the data, which does not show this at all. Or Mr Arato regretted the fact that the country is unfortunately not in this issue either. Let's just say, in one of the debates around midnight here, you admitted that it was a very unfortunate half sentence, so let's just consider it a Freudian saying. Or it was right here as part of the left-wing interpretation of Jobbik, which spoke about the coup d'état of the Crown Virus Act. You have spoken of the fact that the dictatorship has just been fulfilled. Now we're here 60 days after the adoption of the Crown Virus Act, and now you have to face the fact that they were all lies, one by one. Besides that, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go without saying that there are places where the Hungarian people have empowered you, the left, to run cities. And we have seen that in these cities decisions have been made with a rather skeptical view; or decisions have not been made that are necessary. It is enough to refer only to Budapest, where the home of the elderly on Pesti Road is maintained by the Budapest City Council, but Gergely Christmas attacked the government all along instead of doing something to protect her effectively. He kept going into the ATV to complain about the nursing home on Pesti Road, but to this day, Mayor Gergely Christmas never visited the home of the elderly on ATV, ten minutes away from Pest Road. But there are other cities, my honourable fellow Members, the city of Ozd, Miskolc, led by Jobbik, or Vác. In these places, the wages of municipal workers have been reduced everywhere. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: All people over the age of 50 were sent to Kisvárdán!]] Which is outrageous because normative subsidies will be granted to these municipalities, one by one, after each of these workers. So it looks like the management of the epidemiological situation in left-wing municipalities is that the state's standard is given by the state, and then the municipality does not give it to its own employees. I think, if you're going to criticize defense, you might want to consider that, too. To sum up, therefore, the first phase of the fight against the epidemic has been successfully closed by the government and the extraordinary mandate will be returned to Parliament. Unfortunately, however, we also have to conclude that the left cannot be expected in such a crisis, as they continue to do what we have been used to in the last ten years: attack and spread lies from home to Brussels. But now is the moment of truth, honourable opposition Members. After 60 days, as the Prime Minister and the Government have promised, the law on the withdrawal of extraordinary authority is here on the Parliament's table. It's your chance to take this back. I ask my fellow opposition Members, if the apology has been omitted because of the many lies, and we take this into account, I tell you frankly, I do not expect it, because I did not assume from the left that there was such a great deal of generosity in them that an apology would be made, but if they have not done so, at least learn from their own mistakes, and if the Crown Virus Act has not been voted, then the epidemiological preparedness, which all experts consider justified and to be introduced, should be kind enough to support. Of course, the governing parties, including KDNP, will support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The keynote speech of the KDNP Group will be continued by Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. It has a time frame of 16 minutes and 50 seconds. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The new coronal virus epidemic has posed a major challenge for the whole world, including Hungary. The unprecedented pandemic has affected everyone in some form, causing serious problems in our daily lives. Everyone had to play their part in the fight against the virus, Hungarian people had to live with significant restrictions. In the unpredictable situation, we had to prepare for the worst, which required sacrifice, understanding, cooperation, and patience from all. The Hungarian people joined forces in the trouble, followed the restrictive measures, doctors, nurses, paramedics, social workers, teachers, law enforcement, volunteers, sellers, freight suppliers and many others have done heroic work during the most difficult period, so there is great thanks to them. [[18.00]] The Hungarian defense was successful, the first phase was closed, we can say that it was successful, because we managed to keep the epidemic curve flat, build Europe's most modern mobile epidemic hospital in two and a half weeks, manage to control the spread of the epidemic, and in the meantime, we managed to obtain the necessary medical equipment, masks, ventilators and various protective clothing. However, this required that the government, at the advice of the epidemiological experts, be able to take the necessary decisions at the necessary time. I have to argue here with my colleague, Mr László György Lukács. If the Parliament had taken these measures normally, important measures would not have been introduced from one minute to the next, from one hour to the next, requiring an immediate decision, but the Parliament would have been able to discuss them in its regular schedule in two to three weeks. So it seems that the defense was effective and that the defence was successful because the government was able to decide quickly. For this defence, honourable Members, we would have been waiting for you, we would have needed the help of the opposition, we would have needed the opposition to cooperate and join forces. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I do not agree with my better fellow Member that we have closed the door, or that the decision process would be opaque, because this door was open, and you were also expected to be in this room, and you deliberately decided to stay out of it, that you do not wish to participate in the fight against the epidemic. In fact, in addition to their unwillingness to take part in the fight against the epidemic, they even tried to hinder it. It's their greatest sin, it's your greatest historical sin. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Pathetic...]] That they did not say that they would put their hands up, that they would take responsibility, because we also stated that we would take responsibility and that we were prepared to take responsibility for the defence, but you spent most of your time running around with hysterical Facebook posts and foreign media in order to give Hungarian professionals, members of the government, the time to respond to these slanderous campaigns, otherwise to clarify your vile, false accusations. They had to spend some of their time with it instead of focusing this time on the control of the epidemic. It is your greatest sin that they not only excluded themselves from this defense, but even hindered it, and spread false news and slanders at home and abroad, walking through their friends of principle and their usual circles, which did not contain any factual basis, went completely against reality, because we all saw what false news came out of your favor, and you not only moved away, stepped aside from the defense, but also made it difficult. We see that where they were in position, they also avoided responsibility from afar. You did not want to take responsibility in any way to deal with this crisis. We can see this in the Budapest leadership. We can see that they have begun to thin out the BKK flights and that people have been repelled. We can see that they didn't want to introduce free parking. We can see the series of bad decisions, and we can see that that's what Gergely Christmas said one week, the next week she said. And what they've been holding back from defense is that they've blindsided, misguidedly attacked the defense professionals in their personalities. For example, Zoltán Varga is a Gyurcsányist representative, who attacked the national chief of staff in an invaluable tone. When the chief of staff responded for four and a half hours to his questions, he answered only a political, personal, vicious attack. We must have gotten used to you, the Gyurcsány party was only blocking our defenses. Hungary is one of the few countries in Europe where the period of mass diseases did not occur. The government had the necessary and indispensable authority from here in Parliament, and it was therefore possible to make the arrangements in time. Obviously, the worst had to be prepared, and clearly the decisions needed to be made. The government has consulted everyone. The opposition excluded itself from this consultation after a while, and took decisions on advice from epidemiological experts, recommendations from law enforcement, health and other professionals. Just what did the opposition politicians do? When, for the first time, the success of the defense was crossed and the law to be discussed in the extraordinary procedure of four fifths was voted down, then all the politicians sitting in front of it were delighted to celebrate themselves on Facebook, stating that they were not, stating how clever they were, preventing them from passing through quickly, effectively this bill. You were celebrating in Facebook posts that in the first days of the fight against the epidemic, you did not give the government the necessary authority. Therefore, two days of legal uncertainty has occurred, which, fortunately, the government has been able to bridge, but there could have been a much more serious problem because of the fact that you have been crossing the line here as well. In the most serious period of the pandemic, Péter Niedermüller DK, who called the formation of millions of Hungarians terrifying, concluded a contract with the convicted tax fraud Czeglédy Csaba in one person, in violation of the law. It was one of the left-wing epidemics. Timea Szabó and Péter Jakab, two Deputys of Ferenc Gyurcsány launched an amazing campaign of hatred against Hungarians across the border [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] , scolding the protective equipment to be provided to Hungarians across the border, attacking economic development subsidies, and of course doing so in the year of national solidarity, Szabó Timea and Jakab Péter. I think it's a shame. Mr Bernadett Szél spoke of genocide here in Parliament, quoting the darkest times he has said here, accusing us of genocide, which, of course, we must reject in the name of all of us. He didn't add anything to the defense, but he tried to stop me. They used people's deaths for political gain. This is unforgivable. I think you've been rooting for us to defend ourselves less well. You were rooting for it, just so you could tell us, out of petty power interests here, that the defense is going badly. You cheered for this, which, I think, is unprecedented in Hungarian political history. This may also be the lowest point in opposition politics in recent years, when in such an extraordinary crisis, you are more on the side of the virus. The most intriguing performance, however, was undoubtedly achieved by the Ballics Party, which was busy defending itself against the coronal virus by how to exclude its own representatives from its ranks, and was busy dealing with internal countermeasures under the cover of the coronal virus epidemic, as the press may not have heard so much. This was Peter James' most important achievement. But Andrea Varga-Damm wanted to comply with Peter James in April, when she found another time when she said that the people who voted for the Crown Virus Act, the Fidesz and their bitches, did nothing but violate their oath to the Fundamental Law. Since then, it has been discovered that Andrea Varga-Damm insulted Peter James, and that in Jobbik is a more serious sin than a violation of the Fundamental Law; if anyone violates Peter James, it is far more serious than a violation of the Fundamental Law. Fortunately, the Hungarian people did their job, they complied with the measures, so we are successfully past the first stage of the virus, so the parliament you call closed will have the opportunity to eliminate the emergency. At the same time, the virus hasn't gone away, it's still with us. We don't have a vaccine on him yet, so we need to prepare for a second wave, maintain the CDC alert. The operational staff will still meet regularly after the emergency has ended, and the healthcare institutions should also be prepared to provide a higher number of patients. The National Chief of Medicine and the Government must continue to have certain narrow, indispensable tools that they can apply immediately if necessary. I would like to note here that we regularly experience from the opposition this with a hat, no cap, no politics. So far, László György Lukács has repeatedly said, either here or at the committee meeting, why we did not put a time limit in the Crown Virus Act, and now he objects to the time limit and why it is included and what that time limit is like. It was clear to the Hungarian people that in crisis management and serious situations you cannot be expected, the opposition cannot be expected, from Jobbik to the dialogueal anarchist faction the Hungarian people cannot count on them. We also know that since Jobbik has published in the People's Republic that Viktor Orbán has temporarily, but permanently, seized power. György Szilágyi found this saying, a sentence that was written to him, and then their press chief borrowed from the Dialogue even looked at it, and they could still bring it down in Népszava. That tells us everything about the party's state of affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you that, if you have made such serious political mistakes in the past period and have made such serious mistakes against the Hungarians in the past period, you should now apply for an additional examination: then here are these two legislative proposals, which contain the necessary measures. [[18.10]] Say yes to the credit-payment moratorium, say yes to the epidemiological preparedness, say yes to the measures taken to protect the economy, say yes to the removal of the emergency and say yes to the government's continuation of measures that have been taken and proved effective so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The first word is, of course, thanks. I thank all those involved in defence, especially doctors, nurses, doctors and nurses working in health care, in the front line, unfortunately underappreciated by the government, nurses and staff working in the social sector, professionals who even gave advice to the government, and, of course, everyone who took their role sufficiently seriously and here I am talking about ordinary citizens, families, teachers, parents, and roughly everyone in this country's common success is that we have managed relatively well to get through this epidemic, the first phase of it. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: We write it down!]] If you will allow me, I would like to say a few sentences about what this bill is, especially because I am still a little bit under the influence of my fellow Member Nacsa and my fellow Member Hollik, the fantastic speech of the KDNP lead speakers; I think it would have been extremely confusing for my fellow Members to read at least one of those 157-page bill proposals, which, at the very least, did not reveal that they were trying to get past this task. But the same is true of the Secretary of State, who I do not assume knows what is in this bill, but rather I assume that he has not, by chance, spoken particularly much about the specific proposal or proposals that are in front of us. There's been accusations, there's been cutting, there's been pissing, there's been lying, but there's been too much about the bill. In these two legislative proposals, we have two separate laws before us, starting with the mandate to start the proposal to eliminate the emergency as if the government were to give back the special power and the Parliament was to put an end to the emergency. On the other hand, it is the government itself that is submitting the bill to Parliament, and the government is asking Parliament to ask the government to be kind enough to eliminate the emergency. And, you know, that's because from the very first minute on this subject, you're being generous with me. Obviously, we need to lie coherently, and we must not avoid it, but we know from the very first minute that the government is declaring the emergency and the government is ending it, and with this bill, they added another addition: that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, not the government, but personally, will be able to decide when this will happen. So we are seeing a paradox where, once again, the government asks Parliament to ask the government to ask Viktor Orbán to tell us when he thinks this emergency should be resolved. Well, we also think it was a waste of paper for this bill, but if this form is found, we will be very happy to vote in favour of the bill for the removal of an emergency. Moreover, it is very important to note that it has also been proven that the 90-day deadline demanded by the opposition was indeed well founded, my fellow Members, and that the arguments for the lack of time on the part of the governing parties have completely run out and failed. In particular, the MSZP has submitted a textual amendment proposal to you and a separate bill setting a deadline for extending the emergency on 15 June. Imagine that if this proposal had been adopted, we would be doing about the same thing today, exactly the same as we are doing now, and that is exactly when the government was supposed to submit a bill on transitional regulations, what it would like to take forward of the decisions taken in times of emergency, and what it will be permanently abolished, because in this agenda, as we are discussing now, this bill will be adopted before Parliament around 15 June. I would therefore like to say it once again very simply and very clearly: we have no reason to apologize, even if the Secretary of State does good, with 35 percent plus, probably everyone in this country would do so. [[Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm gonna go over that. Calm down, Mr. Secretary, there's no reason. We said that's what we thought the government needed an extraordinary mandate. We said that because we thought that we would not give this to any government in Europe without a deadline from our opposition. However, I would like to look at the face of the Deputy Minister and that, as the opposition to Fidesz, let's say, the government led by the current opposition has a similar proposal. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Never!]] What he would have said. I'd like to listen to Mr. Hollik's wise words once in a while. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] when, let us say, the government led by the current opposition would ask for or would have asked for such authority without a deadline! We think and we have been right about how the government needs the instrument, but we need a deadline for this in every civilised European country, and this deadline has just happened that we are discussing that bill right now. I think that it would have been a fair and trust-building solution, and my fellow Members, that the content of the mandate would have been the same, so what you are talking about, what some measures were needed to use these instruments. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] The extraordinary authority would have been in the hands of the government. What is, however, the most difficult part of this proposal is to supplement the disaster protection law, to give the government the full unlimited power of regulation, which is also included in the delegated act. This, by the way, rewrites the current emergency situation, changing the rules on the current emergency situation. So far, the Disaster Protection Act has set out exactly what measures are possible in times of emergency, and they will now include the same general authorisation as in the Covid Act. This clause is also in fact contrary to the Basic Law, because according to the Fundamental Law, the government, I quote: the proposal does not, however, define the exceptional measures that can be introduced, so while the Fundamental Law would put regulation governance within the framework laid down by a fundamental law in emergency, the proposal now removes this limitation from the disaster protection law. It should be noted that everyone should understand: even in the event of a state of emergency, that is to say war, even in the event of a state of emergency, the Defense Act provides a taxative list of extraordinary rules and measures that can be introduced, so today or within a few weeks, if this law is adopted, it will be the case that, in the event of a medical emergency, the government will have greater powers than in the case of a war, where it receives quite hard tools, but in that law it is there, point by point, what it can do and what it cannot do. It is also at least doubtful that it is a properly regulated part of the bill, Mr Secretary of State, of the regulation on events, since the rubber rule on events that is included does not contain any control or warranty; indeed, events can be events of faith and even within the scope of the assembly law, and in this we strongly suggest that the government can limit them, divides a good day, about this way to sum up this rule, without time limits and any limitations; we suggest that you think this through. [[18.20]] It is quite surprising that, according to the proposal, the Hungarian Defence Office will be involved in the tasks related to the emergency and the health crisis from now on. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Don't start...]] According to the Hungarian Defence Act, the Hungarian Defence Office is involved in the implementation of disaster protection tasks without the right to use weapons. We therefore need to ask why we need a weapon in an emergency and in a health crisis. Obviously, there's a funny way to ask, "Maybe they want to fight the virus with it." Obviously, the aim could be to impose restrictions, even with armed force, even though it is no coincidence that there is a sharp line between the military and internal law enforcement. The military should only be used in the final case for internal law enforcement tasks involving the possibility of taking action against the population. The proposal goes very far in this regard, specifically requiring soldiers assigned to this task to act in accordance with the law of the police. And here's where we're gonna see what we're probably talking about. It is probably what we have been talking about for years now, my fellow Members, that there is a wave of disarmament in the police department that there is a shortage of personnel in the police force that they have simply acknowledged that they are unable to carry out their task for a long time, in such a long-standing state, so you want to have soldiers do this work, as you are already doing at the border, Mr Secretary of State. So just because we don't talk about it, don't think that we don't know that more soldiers are protecting the border now than the police, and there's really no other reason for that than finding them to take them down there at all. And it's not okay. It's not okay because they don't train soldiers for law enforcement and law enforcement. The soldiers are trained primarily to defend the country and eliminate the enemy. And in the area of law enforcement, I need a somewhat more cynical service, and let me not go into the details of that now, but they are not trained and are not training to be pampered by citizens, and let us say that this is not their job. It is also incredibly dramatic that the Government is authorised to establish the content of the assistance of the defence in emergency and health crisis tasks in a regulation. It's the "several times" again! It's one of the rules. So what we don't understand is how you think that the government is usually authorized to do what the defense would do in such a case. I don't know if there was a lack of time or a lack of talent, that they couldn't describe, even from the experience of the last few months, the type of task to use or use the defence in such a case, but the fact that the government will decide what to use the defence for is totally unacceptable. And, you know, the most unacceptable reason is that experience is that you used the Covid Act's authorisation to use it as 120-2020. With a government decree, soldiers were simply wiped out in terms of defence. So, while they've been parading 3,000 jobs for weeks, they're going to be able to go to a reserve soldier instead of a public worker, while they're praising the defense staff, which we agree on is how important the defense is, and it's a national matter, while you've been taking your money in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic. It was in the government decree that all additional benefits in the law on the status of defences were repealed and this one was respected. The soldiers serving at the border have brought home less than 100 to 200 thousand net forints in the last three months than before the outbreak. And this rubber rule, which you are now putting into this law, will give you the opportunity to do so at any time in the next period. This is completely outrageous, and we can't accept it. We're asking you to take this out of the bill. With regard to vocational training, amendments to adult education give the impression that the sectoral minister, László Palkovics, who oversees the area, wants to create a situation that facilitates access to budgetary support for certain training institutions. While, for others, without any particular reason, it creates the possibility of rejection. According to the rubber rules to be put into effect, budget support can be provided for the organisation of training courses which have a high public interest and contribute to the economic growth of Hungary in the long term. At any time, with reference to this term, the support or refusal of any training will be the result of a stroke of a pen, which the Minister decides in a person whether it is true or not. Such a set of rules has also been introduced by the government for the evaluation of proposals to support reduced working time. It is therefore not clear on the basis of which criteria priority training in the public interest will be selected. I think there's more of us who can place a bet on where the ownership of these companies will be. Through the new rules to be introduced, training institutions now entering the adult education market can benefit from a great deal of relief from those already on the market. We could ask the question, but we already know exactly who these rules were designed for, but we already know exactly who they are. Now let's move on to one of the steepest parts of employee rights: slave law 2.0, 3.0, who likes it. After all, they are not only expanding market opportunities for oligarchs, they are at least as dynamic as they are increasing the working time for workers to work. By increasing the working time limit, the government will benefit large and multinational companies. From the point of view of workers, it can be concluded that employees in a two-year working time frame are facing a period where they will have one day off for months, as the production and working time losses caused by the current forced cessations will have to be settled by the end of the accounts. This will be an increased physical, psychological strain for all people. This government step goes against the slogans of protecting families, as at peaks there will be little time for family and child rearing. And allow me to read here a letter that, in its own way, is a curiosity. It is a curiosity because all six, i.e. all trade union confederations, whether they often disagree on several issues, are registered together, and this letter will be published today, and I will read it here in Parliament as requested. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The Government on 26 May 2020 T/10748. has submitted to Parliament a draft Act on transitional rules and health preparedness related to the cessation of an emergency. If the draft law is adopted in its current form, it shall be adopted in accordance with Article 56. According to Paragraph 4 of the Act, the Minister responsible for employment policy could allow the employer to apply a working time or accounting period in the case of a new job creation investment, subject to the relevant provisions of the Labour Code, on the basis of a maximum of 24 months, provided that the implementation of the investment is in the national economy interest. The above paragraph is of serious concern to us because of the following. 1. The draft law was submitted without the use of tripartite social dialogue, without prior consultation. 2. The proposed regulation raises compliance concerns in the light of Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, given that, in the spirit of the Directive, the maximum period of reference is 12 months and that only specified conditions are possible on the basis of objective technical reasons or the existence of reasons relating to the organisation of work and collective agreements or agreements concluded between the social partners. 3. If the draft was adopted, it would significantly undermine trade unions' bargaining positions, since the longer working time frame or settlement period would be unilaterally authorised by the Minister for Employment Policy, not based on an agreement between trade unions and employers. [[18.30]] Finally, on the basis of the draft, it is not sufficiently clear when the creation of a job-creating investment constitutes an economic interest. Because of all these concerns, we appeal to you, as Members of Parliament, to support the adoption of the draft law only if it does not already contain the paragraph mentioned above. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, We may have tabled this amendment today. We are asking the government and our pro-government colleagues to support it. We are talking about a case, I will say it once again, which some multinational companies would be very pleased to hear, but in which all the trade union confederations in Hungary say together that they should not do it, and together they ask that they should not do it. As far as social benefits are concerned, because this is also the case in the bill, either during the crisis, or in this law, the government does not touch family benefits, it does not raise the law, the law, the law, the law, the family allowance. We think that this is a very bad decision and makes family-friendly politics a little bit doubtful. But as far as the proposal is concerned, Mr Secretary of State, the Government is making it more difficult for the situation to be difficult when a series of deadlines are set in this bill on 30 June, so the deadline for regular review, the deadline for the provision of children's benefits which expired during an emergency, the deadline for the extension and revision of health or disability benefits, the deadline for the validity of official documents leaving during an emergency. I would like to say this specifically, Mr Secretary, because the opposite has been promised, and indeed the opposite has been in the regulations, or is still in the regulations to this day. You wish to send people to health inspection and then government administration in 15 days when this is clearly physically impossible. We will therefore also propose an amendment to this and ask the Government to extend these deadlines until at least 31 August under the rules of common sense. I would add that, at present, in the regulations adopted by the government, you have promised people a longer time limit, and they are obviously preparing for this, including the offices and doctors. As regards the proposals made by the MSZP, Mr Secretary of State, there has been a very, very long political process during the last speeches, and once again, we have not heard much about the bill. They make it all look like a huge success, but it wasn't that long ago, we remember how the plague and the disease control started. At the beginning, the government was particularly inclusive of the proposals of the MSZP, but almost none of them had any cost implications. I am always amazed to hear from you personally, even from the Prime Minister, that you can tell me how bravely you have been made and how quickly, for example, your decision to close schools. It's just, Mr. Secretary, I am sorry in Parliament on Monday of that week, and I asked in the other Chamber before the agenda that the closure of schools should be dealt with in substance by the government, and then, on Friday morning, Mr.Orbán talked about why this cannot be done and why teachers should be sent on unpaid leave. Even though the government's propaganda rang every day, it was not possible to deliver the right quality of protective equipment to doctors and social workers in the front line of defense in time. Weeks, even months, and a month and a half have passed, before I know who those scouts and scouts have set out all over the world, after it has been terribly unpleasant for neighbouring countries to get ahead of us, and we have heard daily how both the Czech and Slovak governments use their own government machines to bring protection equipment to hundreds of thousands or millions. Even though we demanded an increase in the unemployment allowance from three months to nine months, they still do not move. The work-based society is mantraded, while, Mr State Secretary, extraordinary decisions must be taken in exceptional times. Even if we believe or even accept that the government and the state can play a role in creating a new job for people with public programs, you know that these three months are almost over for those who lost their jobs at the beginning of the epidemic, while the ones you talked about are nowhere; they can't be, they can't be sane state programs in a few months. And we strongly believe that those nine months, for example, may be enough time for the state to launch meaningful public programmes and middle-term programmes with EU funds, which really makes sense, which really creates value and helps the development of the domestic economy, such as a program for insulation of private houses, apartments, or a rental building program. The Hungarian government also made a negative record in supporting domestic businesses. Secretary of State, today, as the water level report, we are announcing how many companies have managed to apply for the job retention programme. Only, by the end of April, after a month and a half, almost two months of doing nothing, the number of job seekers in Hungary increased to 330 700, which became 7.1 percent of the active workers. There was no other reason for this than that you did not give meaningful help to companies who hesitated to give up their employees or not. Yes, they did not raise the law, the law, the law, the law, or the family allowance, or the pensioners, even though they would have had time and space to do so; but they still do, so we continue to demand them. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, They've been on the left a lot lately, so I'm guessing László Fat has given the order, this could be some new brand. Except once again, we didn't hear much about the law in the Secretary of State's exposé, the more we heard all sorts of political accusations, we can count that in the usual political game. But, you know, with the parliamentary lie tsunamis, their paid ads, their billboards for billions... There's giant posters out there while people are dying every day, and you guys are on your billboards proclaiming for public money what kind of vagabonds you are. Besides, you know, as a lefty, I'm very proud of myself because I don't tolerate injustices, and I don't take it, I don't take my stomach for what you're doing behind the scenes. That, while the slave law provides for a two-year timeframe for the Hungarian worker in 3.0, it has just been published that Opel has taken a HUF 100 billion profit out of the country, that the Audi has made 700 billion. Do you understand the number? ! Now, in the middle of the crisis, he's taking a HUF 700 billion profit out of the country! Lőrinc Mészáros takes out 20 billion forints of profits from three companies by himself after tax, nicely put in his pocket. 34 will be taken from the municipalities to take their share of the defense. Then Viktor Orbán's dear villager friend takes out 20 billion in one person and puts it in his pocket. How do you think a man on the left doesn't open his mouth? ! By the way, when they talk about a successful defense, they listen to him, today they deny that hospitals have been evacuated, and people have died because of it. We are not only talking about this because we are attacking the government, we are talking about it so that bad decisions are reviewed and, most of all, never made again. Compared to that, Miklós Kásler doesn't even remember how people did it on their own didn't go to the hospital and talk nonsense. Finally, about who took their share. You know, we're just congressmen, one-time opposition representatives, and you're the ones with the power. But what I can tell you is that the Hungarian Socialist Party, as a left-wing party, its parliamentary representatives, gave one million forints of their own taxed salary at the first opportunity to deliver the defenced assets. Do you know where? I took her to a doctor's office, I took her to a pharmacy, where doctors and pharmacists didn't have any protective equipment from the government. What did you do? ! Mr. Secretary, with your 35 percent raise, what did you do? What did Szilárd Németh do with his 35 percent Secretary of State salary, his two-and-a-half million salary? Did you take two bags of apples? Well, be nice, don't lecture us. As a proud leftist, we will continue to draw attention to all injustices. Thank you for listening. [[18.40]]
u2020-06-03-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, Head Speaker of the Democratic Coalition, will be here to speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-157	Thank you very much. Dear House, The intention of this entire bill and the political intentions of the political side of emergency management are very much explained by the fact that, in this debate, we have heard much more about the opposition than we have heard about the bill itself or the defence against the coronal virus from pro-government speakers, from either the Secretary of State or the key speakers of Fidesz or KDNP. Let's start with what we agree on, I think it's always useful on a subject like this. I think that today, given the figures, there is more or less consensus that Hungary, like the countries of Central Europe in our situation, has successfully survived the worst part of the epidemic. We have managed to avoid the emergence of a serious crisis in Hungary, such as in some southern European countries, as in Western and Northern European countries, or even in the United States of America, where the epidemic was clearly mistreated. If you remember, my fellow Members, that is why, contrary to what you are now saying, the opposition has not only supported the strengthening measures that proved to be effective here in Parliament and outside Parliament, but has also called for and demanded it. At a time when, for example, Hungary was free to travel from Italy, while the epidemic had already started in Italy, we had a debate here in Parliament about whether it would be right to close the borders in this direction, or when it was possible to fly freely from China to Hungary, while most of Europe was closed, we were arguing about this, and I could continue to mention in detail the issue of school closings, Mr Bellozó, I would not go into that. I think it's a success, it's a thing that makes sense to rejoice together, and it makes sense to thank those who, of course, are not the 133 brave people first and foremost, but those who you have listened to in a good part of the case, have not listened at other times, and, of course, in particular, those who were at the front line of defense, the health workers, the workers of social institutions, the employees of local authorities, the law enforcement workers, and more. What were we arguing about, and what are we arguing about today? The fact that you wanted to make a political issue out of defense against the epidemic, at least here at the level of major politics. It was not their intention to create unity, on the contrary, it was their intention not to create unity. That is why a bill has been put forward that is clearly beyond all common sense and common constitutional rules, which does not otherwise comply with the Fundamental Law, and that is why a rule is being put in place now which is clearly not with a good heart to support. What was the biggest break point in the authorisation law back then? It's got to have a time limit. You said that 90 and 120 days are not acceptable, because there may not be a parliament. Prime Minister said we'd be in worse shape in 90 days than we are now. Fortunately, we are in no worse shape than Parliament or the country. It is not reassuring that Prime Minister prepared for this and expected this, but I think that it was clear, and it was clear that even if we set a sober deadline, the opposition will support this, and if there is a need for an extension of this deadline, we will also be willing to support it if the epidemiological situation justifies it. Ladies and gentlemen, You said no to 90 days and 120 days when it was 65 days, and now you're saying you don't need this law anymore. We could, of course, and you would pretend that if it were to be enlightened, you could see that this was not necessary, or that the epidemiological situation is now so good. We suspect that the fact that you have received very harsh criticism, European and foreign criticism in this case is also a part of this, and that you have rightly acknowledged that Hungary's perception that it is not a country operating under democratic conditions is at the very expense of Hungary. And I respect my fellow Members for having so much respect for the opposition, but I must say that you are very mistaken if you think that the position of European governments or the position of the European Parliament is determined by the Hungarian opposition. These organizations were informed, read, read, read the bill, and then formed their position. What have you done with this bill, for that matter? Because they say Parliament worked. What you did, really, was that Parliament was fed with laws that were either not urgent at all, and that you had plenty of time, or that you were in a hurry to give an example, such as the export of a significant part of higher education from the state system, or the abolition of the status of civil servants of cultural workers, which was brought in during the epidemic just to get less attention in the press and in the public. At the same time, however, the decisions that were really important, because, obviously, during an epidemic, the decisions that were really important in relation to the health and economic management of the epidemic were excluded from the control of Parliament and the public in Parliament. They say it was necessary to make urgent decisions. Let me give you an example so that it is clear why this was not necessary in most cases. For example, the economic package was announced here by the Prime Minister on 30 March, and the regulation was published on 16 April. These two weeks would have been enough to speed up, but obviously both sides of Parliament would have been open to this debate here on this bill or on several legislative proposals, and, in this case, better decisions could have been made, for example, in a week's time, because it turned out that the rules laid down by the government were unviable. Therefore, the intention was for you to take decisions on the disease control, in particular economic decisions, without parliamentary authority. I will return to this at the end of my speech. The original authorisation also provided a means of making health decisions. Otherwise, the current state of the Health Act would also be an opportunity for major epidemiological measures, and the rest would have been a way for the government to do so on the basis of the Disaster Protection Act. I think, Mr. Secretary, that our numbers are very different if we count what the government was not empowered to do under the Disaster Protection Act. In total, we may have found five of the regulations announced, where this could have been a question at all. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Everything that is economic.]] These are basically economic types. But for example, you say, Mr. Secretary, I am very surprised to hear that the credit moratorium could not have been ordered without the authorisation law. I would like to tell Mr Secretary of State that the credit moratorium was announced by the government in a government decree two weeks before the approval of the delegation law. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: 15 days later.]] Yes, but it could have been extended here in Parliament in the same way, it would have been possible. As all regulations could have been extended in Parliament, this could have been extended, and we would otherwise have agreed to extend it. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] we said that we would have supported the extension of all regulations [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Of course.]] The ones they brought back then. We wouldn't support everything anymore, I'd like to tell you, but I'll get back to you on that. What does the bill look like? We have two billings ahead of us. One of them has already been analyzed for a long time by Congressman Bellozó. Let us be clear, the one about the withdrawal of the delegation law is a fake bill, because the scope of the delegation law could end in two ways. One is that the government withdraws the emergency, but this does not require any further parliamentary action. If the government meets tomorrow and decides to put an end to the emergency from tomorrow or even 20 June, then the scope of the delegation law would also be abolished, it is included in the law. The other option would be that the Parliament itself withdraws this extra mandate, and then only the rules otherwise published in the Constitutional Disaster Protection Act remain in force, but the proposal does not propose this either but what does it say? On the one hand, we humbly ask the government, if it so wishes, to withdraw the mandate. The government is asking for it on its own, by way of Parliament, because it is submitting a bill asking the government to withdraw it. On the other hand, it will terminate the mandate, but it will end its entry into force in such a way that it will cease when the government withdraws the authorisation, but this is also the case in the original law. This bill was completely unnecessary to bring to Parliament, which has no effect. [[18.50]] By the way, we ourselves tabled a bill that would have lifted the mandate, as Prime Minister had originally promised at the end of May, and the MSZP also submitted a proposal that would have had similar scope. Somehow, they have not even been put on the Commission's agenda so far. Instead, they submit this really bogus bill, obviously in order to tell you that this is how you always get off your bike, but that doesn't mean it has any legal effect, and you can say that the Parliament has withdrawn it. No, it is not the Parliament's withdrawal; this bill is also about an emergency situation, and until then there is no constitution beyond the Constitution, sorry, an extraordinary mandate beyond the Fundamental Law, as long as the government so wishes. We see that the government doesn't like it for a while now, that's okay, but you're gonna take care of it, and that's what the other bill is about, let alone a salad law, a salad mountain, because it's got at least four elements mixed together. In this salad law, on the one hand, they immediately provide for how long the extraordinary legal order can remain in force, if you will. Because, on the one hand, in this bill, it is said that, on the recommendation of the National Chief of Medicine, the government can declare the public health emergency, which I suspect is the epidemic preparedness that you are referring to, and which, I believe, you intend to keep in force even after the authorisation and the withdrawal of the emergency. There is no parliamentary mandate here, there is no parliamentary control, there is a total report to the Parliament's Health Committee. How much these accounts are worth, that's what we've seen over the last few months. At the same time, the government is given very broad powers in such a case, it can regulate the operation of all institutions and facilities, shops, restrict passenger transport, freight traffic, people's contact, leave certain areas, use of health services, in essence almost everything, and we should be grateful that it cannot at least introduce a curfew. After all, we could have been shot by the government, indeed. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You did that!]] But no, you can't introduce a curfew. They've found another way to do that. If the government would like to have a curfew, then that is what the other element of this bill is about, however, by amending the disaster protection law, and by extending the mandate in it very significantly, allows the government to declare a crisis situation unilaterally and, in this situation, to do practically everything it can now. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there should have been room for us to learn from the current epidemic situation. Because the health laws did not regulate all the necessary measures in an appropriate manner, nor did the disaster protection law regulate all the measures in an appropriate manner. To add, it may not surprise me that although the Fundamental Law relied on previous constitutional rules in this respect, fortunately, the Fundamental Law and previous constitutional rules are not without gaps. In many ways, they are not prepared for this type of situation. On the basis of the lessons learned from the epidemic, there should have been a good preparatory work, either after a multi-party consultation and particularly a serious professional preparation, taking into account the epidemiological, security and fundamental rights conditions in the same way, a good quality regulation could be put before Parliament. But it's not. What we are talking about here is that you want to maintain the opportunity to bypass Parliament and circumvent Parliament's work on virtually every important issue. I guess they think that maybe they'll see what they're doing from afar, Brussels or Berlin. I think it's a naive idea, by the way. The second, and I wouldn't go into the details here, is the gun use of the military we think is the same as what Congressman Bell said. This is quite amazing regulation, although we can see that you have spiritual relatives on the other side of the ocean, but the army's domestic deployment, armed deployment in every democratic country is an extremely strong constitutional ban, a type of border that cannot be crossed, only in extremely serious cases. The situation is similar, for example, to small things like the fact that the property keeper is granted unlimited, in some cases unlimited access to clothing and personal inspection, and I could continue this list for a long time. Another block of the bill refers to the fact that, indeed, of the rules that you consider worthy of preservation, you want to preserve them. This is part of the proposal that I should obey Mr Nacsa's call to say yes in many of his elements, or we could say yes if it were not linked to the other elements. However, there are many elements in this which we consider appropriate to maintain. We think that, as Mr Secretary of State has said, for example, maintaining a credit moratorium is obviously a justified measure and tax facilitations, maintaining regulatory facilitations, and the rest, and the rest, these are types of measures that could obviously be supported if they were not linked to much else. I would like to highlight three critical elements here. The first is, in fact, a technical proposal for consideration to the government, perhaps there is a chance to accept it. It is very problematic that the bill removes the extension of entitlement to social benefits and the extension of the validity of documents with a relatively short deadline. It follows that this type of regulation will generate enormous traffic in the document offices, in particular, and in the administration departments, when we remember that even before the outbreak, the customer service system was on the verge of collapse in government offices. I suggest you don't do this to government agencies or people. There is no need for long lines, here a few months' extension makes much more sense than there is a possible administrative problem. I would like to suggest this to the government for consideration, because I do not think that there is any political content other than making people's lives unnecessarily difficult. Unfortunately, they are not in this circle, although I am willing to assume, even in this, that the rules on justice have not been sufficiently thought out. In the field of justice, the regulation, on grounds of epidemiological rules or needs, essentially allows them to be prevented from exercising, or at least directly, from being, the burden or accused of, the various criminal offences which they are entitled to. Up to six months of deferrals in certain proceedings, in other proceedings, they switch to a distance hearing, which in many respects is not the same quality as a personal hearing; it is not by accident that criminal proceedings provide for the principle that the parties should be able to appear directly. And I could keep going. There is a rubber rule here, while, by the way, you can see that the heads of the court request that normal court work continue as soon as possible. I think we should get back to this. There is a dangerous and problematic rule here that gives a very free hand on what is needed and what is not needed for otherwise epidemiological rules. This could significantly impair the quality of the law application, the quality of the justice system, and cause serious problems. I don't think it's worth putting up with the justice system or the people who are looking for the right thing anyway. I think it's worth thinking about. There is a point to this proposal, and I would also like to say a few words about it, where it is quite obvious that the horse's foot is hanging out. They seek the interests and favors of certain economic groups. Obviously, this is the introduction of a harsher version of the slave law, which allows for a 24-month working time limit, so in Hungarian, to say that in two years' time, it is only then that you have to pay the overtime, or you have to spend the days off. This regulation, in contrast to the original slave law, where it was at least formally possible for the employee to contribute to this working order and allowed it to deviate or agree on this in the system of labour conciliation, is now required by the government in its infinite wisdom. [[19.00]] Not for everyone. No, no! Well, that's for someone who's considered to be of high national importance. We know who the institution of major national importance is, we've seen it many times... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: The Hungarians!]] Well, then it should have been written that everyone, dear congressman, is available to all businesses, although we would not agree, but we do not agree with who you hold this up to: their own home oligarchs are named Lőrinc Mészáros, the son-in-law, the business partner and the others, and some of the great multinationals who are formally hated and actually served. They will be given this opportunity, they will be given the opportunity from this government that protects the great Hungarians to otherwise eviscerate workers, to bind them to clots in a sense, and to significantly undermine their rights. What I can say is that this is shameful in many ways, and this is not an extension of an existing provision, because even at the time of the emergency, it was also a milder rule. I must say that the inclusion of this in this bill is a disregard for workers' and workers' rights. Let us be quiet about the fact that, by the way, there are still a number of laws being tampered with from patent law to certain agricultural laws in this bill, but I wouldn't even mention them in detail; they're obviously trying to get everything out of the way as usual. To sum up, therefore, we can say that, while the emergency bill does not withdraw the emergency, it is therefore unnecessary, the temporary rules bill is worse and particularly harmful. On the one hand, it gives the government almost unlimited authority to act without any control on the grounds of a health crisis or by declaring an emergency, and, although gallantly, in the case of a health crisis, it is now prescribed that it can be ordered for six months, but it has also been written that the government can extend it unilaterally without limitation. We see in the immigration crisis, or what the devil, that this is always extended by the government, of course, because it always sees reason to increase its own power. That's all, but it's not constitutional. For example, hospital commanders will remain, not health considerations will continue to decide whether hospitals operate, but different governmental aspects, and we also note in silence that the provisions of the Btk. sewed into the authorisation law will, of course, remain in force and can continue to be taken away on the basis of their opinion. What hasn't been included in the government decrees or in the current law? It has not been included in this law to improve the situation of the unemployed, those who have already lost their jobs. It did not include any substantial improvement in the situation of small businesses who had to stop for months and do not know when to open again. Because tax relief helps those who have income, but who had to close their business, their bakery, could not continue their work, and a very significant part of small businesses are like this, and in areas that they might not even think about, I have just talked to several people, this happens to me, but now I have talked to such entrepreneurs several times, from a wide variety of areas, from climate control to calibration of optical instruments, entrepreneurs have been in a situation where they had no revenue for months, and these tax reliefs do not help them much. At the same time, of course, there was something that this law was used for, and I said that I would say a few more words about it. They used this law to take control of the Carton Pack, and now they're giving it back, but of course we don't know what happened at the company. This mandate has been used to ensure that the 2020 budget is set and sewed freely, and not only has it been included in this proposal that was really necessary for defence, but has been included, for example, in support of public service and community investment in the church, the protection of church-built heritage, the implementation of sports park investments or the support of the Petőfi Literature Museum, which I am very fond of, I fear, not because of its literary values, but because of the presence of the enthusiastic cultural warrior of its leader. Here we have had a little talk about local governments, let me say a few words about this, just because my fellow Members have abused the municipalities in a chorus. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that among those to whom we thank, the majority of the municipalities are also included, and I can also say that without party standing, because many municipalities have done more than they can in times of emergency and have done the work that the government has not done, while you are constantly drawing funds from them and trying to put them in an impossible position. Let me give you some examples of the Mayors of DK in the capital; I could certainly give you other examples from other parties' mayors. The capital's DK mayors have introduced home care support to those who have been kicked out of hospitals, more specifically to their families; they have given extraordinary support to the people who are unemployed instead of you; and they have decided to renovate and make available apartments for those who lose their housing due to the crisis, and I could continue. I have to say that it is wrong, wrong, and harmful that you see enemies in the municipalities just because a significant part of them is no longer run by pro-government mayors and councils. To sum up, therefore, I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Democratic Coalition does not support this bill, or, more specifically, these two legislative proposals in this form. We regret that once again the government has not attempted to reach Parliament with an eligible, consensual, professional solution to solve the real problems. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Group Leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-06-03-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Here, after several hours of discussions, I will attempt to put it in a much shorter way than my fellow Members, and I will try to avoid repetitions. At the same time, I will certainly start by saying that, as I have done every time in the last few months before the Parliament's meeting, the Prime Minister has been in there perhaps twice, Minister Szijjártó on many occasions, and I have always started by thanking everyone who is working to preserve the safety and health of Hungarian people, and now, when we can say that we are on our way to the end of a section, I would like to start with this. But I will start by thanking the Hungarian people for the discipline and patience that was necessary to ensure that this situation did not reach the levels seen in other countries, so we can say this as a positive process, but it is clear that the patience and insight of the Hungarian people in this matter had to be understood, that they understood the importance of restrictive measures and that they respected them in a disciplined manner. And by the way, if we are thinking about the debate over the last few hours and perhaps the last few months, I think that on behalf of the entire Parliament, we can thank the Hungarian people for the patience they themselves have shown for the enhanced political debate, which, by the way, was unworthy of the situation itself. I am convinced, although I am critical of both sides, that this fundamental responsibility lies with the government, that this political debate could have been so deep and so serious. We owe special thanks to those who worked and worked in the first line during the epidemic period, so let us not forget that with the fact that the epidemic seems to be retreating at the moment, we must not be careless, and we must be on alert for a very, very long time, and it will be a very important task for all those who have to be directly involved in this. Here we are thinking not only of health workers, but also of social workers, law enforcement workers, everyone who had to provide services directly in some way, had to perform tasks that could not have been interrupted during the past period under the epidemiological measures or restrictions. We are thinking of the merchants, the pharmacists, the drivers who have maintained public transport, but they are very important and very rarely mentioned for everyone who was responsible for maintaining public cleanliness. In such an epidemiological situation, their work was particularly difficult and dangerous. They practically cleaned the various institutions and public areas and maintained public cleanliness. I think that the work of these people is under-appreciated, so thank you to everyone who has worked and will work to protect the safety of Hungarian people. And indeed, here my fellow Member Arató has already referred to it as a huge thank-you to the municipalities, the leaders of the municipalities, the mayors, and the representatives of the local government. Here we have seen a very exemplary stand and exemplary defense. Basically, it should also be said that the municipalities have proved to be the number one bastion of defence here in the past, because when it was still basically possible to deal with the assessment of the situation nationwide, or by assessing the impact of this epidemic, we have already seen what exemplary measures have been taken directly by the municipalities and mayors in their respective jurisdictions. So, quickly, we can say that the municipalities have responded, and we can also say in parallel with many examples that basic protective equipment, the provision of masks for the population were the responsibility of the municipalities in many places, and it was solved by the municipalities, because by the time they started or were supplied, in most places the local authorities and the city leaders had already taken care of this task. [[19.10]] I'm looking at Secretary of State Orbán. I very much hope that the government also recognises the work of the municipalities. Over the last hour, we have listened to the government and these pro-government representatives speak for more than an hour, and they have talked almost exclusively about how successfully the government has defended itself. I think you should acknowledge that there have been huge tasks for the municipalities, by the way, even for the municipalities with opposition, independent or pro-government leadership. Yes, it is important to draw attention here to the fact that the municipalities have faced a huge number of tasks, compared to what has been done so far, while in many places the bodies, assemblies and settlements that are otherwise in a very difficult situation have also been subject to specific government restrictions. As much as you disagreed with the previous item on the agenda, in the debate, Mr Secretary, these were hard cuts, the effects of which can be really measured now. I also think it is very important that I thank you for all your work, by the way, and I have done so in the debates over the past few weeks, who, by the way, have worked for the return of Hungarian people stranded abroad, including those who have worked for the purchase of protective equipment. Even then, there were a lot of legitimate debates about delays or about the quality problems that arise. I think that everyone who has worked to get or will work on adequate protective equipment should be grateful to them, so I would definitely like to start with this speech today. Turning to the billings, I can't pass them, although I've been thinking for a long time about not responding to the pro-government speeches we've heard here, but I still have to come back in a few words. I would just like to say to Mr Bajkai, the lead speaker of Fidesz, that his speech is mainly in the Legislative Committee that I listen to his speeches of a professional nature, and I would like to end with this. Congressman Nacsa is not here at the moment, but to his speech: I think it will be a political history memento. That video was pretty amazing. The insidious allegations and slanders you have made at the time of the outbreak have been presented to us as a collection. To say, my fellow Members, that the opposition was on the side of the virus, and not only did it not help but also hinder the defence, it is quite amazing. I think that this is completely unworthy of the Parliament, unworthy of a congressman. I wouldn't want to go into the correct ideological classification of KDNP, but I think that was shameful and unworthy. However, I would like to add, and I have already referred to this, especially in the debate on the draft law on the establishment of a special legal order, I regret the criticisms of the opposition that have been made here about dictatorship and such measures. I think that was wrong, too. It can certainly be said that there were wrong statements on both sides, wrong use of words, and here society rightly expected and expected that all political forces in such a serious epidemiological situation would try to reach a consensus and establish a national cooperation. By the way, he also made a very serious gesture, and he made a very clear gesture, if I remember correctly, that all opposition groups made it clear that any faction would have been willing to vote in favour of the bill for the creation of a special legal order for the government to act quickly if any deadline had been included. That was a matter of principle, 90 days, 120 days. They were there, we asked for these proposals for a separate vote, it was quite clear, it was a political calculation by the government that they wanted to bring the party political battle to the top in this situation. And I really think that the use of the word "historic responsibility" is certainly not exaggerating. So in the situation we are in, and in the situation we are facing, I think it is not exaggeration to say that there is a historical responsibility on all of us now, on Parliament and obviously on the government and on those who have the means and opportunities to do what we are going to do with this situation. I have already spoken a lot in the debate on the previous item, and I do not wish to talk too long about what it means and how this situation needs to be assessed. The most important was the protection of human life and human health over the past and the next period, and let us hope that this epidemic will not come back with a stronger second wave, although there are worrying signs: the spread seems to accelerate again in different countries, but let us hope that this can be avoided, trust that there will be appropriate vaccines and means to prevent the spread of the epidemic in this way in a foreseeable time. But it is quite clear that this situation has shown and the emerging and ever deeper economic crisis shows that we cannot go back to life and back to a concept that was typical before the epidemic. There is therefore a need for a fundamental shift in economic policy and social policy. So we need to be much stronger in a self-sufficient, crisis-resistant economy that can deal with situations, extraordinary situations on which we can say that we are now faced with one, but it is likely that we will have to face them more often and, if not necessarily, with viruses, but with other challenges, which are linked either to climate change or environmental destruction, or to various global, observable problems and systemic problems. So it is in our fundamental interest to try to recover, rebuild, start an economy that is more capable of confronting or resisting crises. And it is certain that, in this situation, we do not need to deliver mass products from remote continents, but we need to meet and prepare for the most important needs, key products, needs and regional cooperation along a patriotic economic policy approach. And with this approach, it is already necessary to protect jobs and the economy and create new jobs with the responsible use of available resources. Unfortunately, we do not see any good signs in this regard. If we look at the measures of the past period and now I try not to go into too much detail about the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, because we talked about it a lot, but if we look at the budget this year, the measures related to it, the transfers and then look at the budget next year, then unfortunately we must say that we do not see this fundamental change of perspective, which would be necessary in order to rebuild, build and boost a crisis-resistant economy capable of creating the security of Hungarian people. In this regard, I am quite certain that we will continue to have very serious debates over the next period on how to plan our future in the interests of the Hungarian nation. And, by the way, I would add that this is not just a domestic challenge, but it is a global challenge, it is absolutely necessary to have a huge change of perspective, and in this respect, criticisms about the functioning of the European Union are very justified. We have seen, in recent times, that the European Union is responding to various global challenges, including the migration situation, in a very rigid way, too bureaucratic, less transparent, less democratic, and, therefore, obviously, there will also be huge challenges. And obviously in many respects this affects our lives, our future, how international policy works, how European integration works. Turning to the legislative proposals in particular: yes, my fellow Members mentioned that when this bill came into being, there was a whole different tone of voice, even between the pro-government factions and the opposition factions. It seemed for a few weeks that there was a historical situation that could actually be, so everyone felt the seriousness of the situation and could have a meaningful dialogue with each other. And yes, the opposition factions, I myself have acknowledged that this is necessary in a legal order that gives us the opportunity to decide quickly if necessary. This is in everyone's essential interest that these measures can be taken immediately. There was also a legislative proposal which was not presented to Parliament in this form, which could have been adopted by consensus, by full or almost complete consensus in Parliament. You refused to do that. However, I would not repeat the examples of my fellow Members that were completely contrary to today's knowledge, to today's epidemiological measures, to directives and guidelines, which were also spoken by very, very high-ranking pro-government politicians, to ministers and, where appropriate, to the Prime Minister. I think that it is possible to make political propaganda out of trying to blame the opposition on all aspects of this unworthy situation and political debate, but I think it is pointless, since these statements can be found on the Internet from Prime Minister Gulyás, Minister, and at any time it is possible to trace from the point of view of today's eyes how shockingly irresponsible statements have been made by leading pro-government politicians. So I think it's in your interest, too, if you don't try to make it look like this, that the opposition here has been acting irresponsiblely. I think that you have had the opportunity to develop such a kind of national cooperation. They did not take advantage of this, and even provoked the opposite, but it would be naive to say that in this situation they would try to go in another direction. But I believe that this can be felt by opposition factions even in today's debate that opposition parties, opposition factions, try to use a different tone. By the way, the LMP has also tried to be constructive in recent months, so we have not been told that dictatorship is being built; indeed, national interests are being betrayed, say, by a Budapest-Belgrád railway project, that is clear. [[19.20]] But it is very important, and I am pleased that Mr Harangozó, compared to previous speakers, has put particular emphasis on our appreciation for what kind of bill we really have before us. One of the legislative proposals, the bill on the elimination of an emergency, is basically misleading, so we can say that the title is misleading. It is quite clear that this bill calls on the government to put an end to this emergency. My fellow bellman explained very clearly that, under the Fundamental Law, the government had the opportunity to introduce an emergency, the government had the opportunity to withdraw the emergency, so this legislation is completely unnecessary in this respect. Indeed, as a political declaration, the Parliament asks the government to withdraw the emergency. And by the way, the Faramuci situation was that the bill that we received didn't reveal the date. So here they're trying to make it look like the Parliament is withdrawing or abolishing the extraordinary legal order. That is not true, here in a political statement, practically in such a proposal for a resolution, you ask the government to do so. But what's the deadline? What's the date? When will the emergency end? There is only one clue here: the Minister of Justice mentioned a deadline of 20 June, which leads us to conclude that it is likely that it will be the date of the government decision, then this law will enter into force, then this bill, which is known as lex Covid, will be repealed, that is quite clear. I would add that it could have been done that the Parliament really lived up to its mandate and withdrawn this legislation, but this is political propaganda, which should not surprise us at all as a result of the past period. If we manage these laws at the same time, which are in front of us, the bill deals with a great deal of measures aimed at maintaining, approving and extending government regulations in force during the epidemiological period. There are some amendments that remain with us, so the government thinks that they will continue to be in force. It has also been said here in the last several hours that one of these reasoned, legitimate, welcome proposals is unacceptable, and that there are many in the proposal which, we can say, has nothing to do with the disease control, so let us state this. Overall, there is a lack of an approach that I have already talked about, and I do not wish to say this for a longer time, that the government is trying to face up to some system view of the vulnerability in all respects, not only with the economic vulnerability, not only to health care, which has shown itself here in the epidemiological situation; unfortunately, we do not see any trace of this in this bill. And I would add that in recent months, however, there have been measures that are contrary to what we would now be interested in or in the interests of the nation. So measures specifically, whether, say, restrictions on universities or restrictions on cities or municipalities, which have a direct impact on Hungarian people, are contrary to the direction in which we should go. I would also like to refer to amendments concerning workers' rights. Here, Congressman Bellozó presented this trade union letter, and I do not wish to repeat it; this is quite astonishing and unacceptable. I would add that there have been other problems with the Code of Work, and others that also call for amendment. So there are also problems of a kind, rigidities in the labour code that can be associated with the case of home work, so there should be other changes. Well, the outrageous amendment, which again restricts workers' rights to an amazing extent, stands out, of course, from the steps that we could consider as a negative example here. I am not going to present the proposals in detail here after my fellow Members, and I would just like to make a few references. In the event of a ban on cancellation of leases, it is clear that there is a need for a policy of support, not just such restrictive measures. With regard to the delay in paying local industrialisation taxes, I think we are seeing again a measure that affects municipalities negatively, but again, this makes it impossible or very difficult to provide public services that are very important to people. Therefore, they are not eligible measures as a whole. Here, with regard to the exemption from the waiting fee, Mr Lukács has already pointed out that the deadline for 1 July is completely unjustified, which should have been stopped immediately. Amazing, everyone can experience increased vehicle traffic, including air pollution, and in a situation where we are fighting the epidemic here, we know exactly how much these problems due to increased air pollution increase the risk of various dangerous complications. Therefore, this measure should have been withdrawn as quickly as possible, which cannot be justified by the deadline of 1 July. And then, indeed, there are the various facilitations: there are different facilitations for higher education in administrative, police, military and national security. It is clear that the government's rhetoric, image, policy can be used to try to promote the military career here, even though these may not be the most effective in terms of reducing unemployment or taking action in the labour market. However, I would also like to refer to what Mr Bellozó has already referred to: here the measure on the right to use weapons of defence seems quite hairy, and now Dániel Z. Kárpát did not use this analogy, he used this. But it is also completely unjustified, which is in the bill, because it is about the possibility for the defence to use weapons in an epidemiological situation, despite the fact that it is in the current legislative environment, in which cases they can now use this tool. When, in particular, a critical situation arises, there is the right to do so now, so it is quite unnecessary to introduce this amendment into this proposal, in my view. Similarly, the government is also given the opportunity to establish in a regulation the manner in which the intervention of the defence in the context of the emergency and the health crisis can take place. And yes, with regard to the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act, I will certainly not repeat before me the fact that there is a quite amazing amendment. If, at the time, we have debated these various authorisations, how well they are justified or not well founded, it should be mentioned that, in particular, the government will be given a much stronger mandate, not from the Fundamental Law, but from the Disaster Protection Act, to derive from the possibilities of action that it can take in such a situation. And yes, I also mention the establishment of an institution for a health crisis, which is also of concern because it is not regulated in the Fundamental Law and therefore there are no guarantees attached to it. The difference in the emergency situation is a very, very serious mandate that my fellow Member has referred to. Here, as we see it, the only thing missing is that curfew restrictions cannot be imposed, so we can say in this respect that it is an extremely broad mandate. Then I would not go further into explaining the details of the bill, what the historical responsibility is here, what the government is going to do in this situation, how it will use the opportunities, the financial opportunities, the economic opportunities needed to deal with similar situations, and how the economic crisis will be mitigated and recovered. We've been arguing a lot, and we're going to talk about the different completely unnecessary spendings. There's a government poster campaign, hundreds of millions of propaganda campaigns, or who knows what's going to end, maybe billions, completely useless, spending every penny on job creation rather than government propaganda. But likewise, we could argue with regard to government consultation, I think. The government consultation campaign, I don't know exactly how much it's gonna cost again, how much money they're taking away from economic protection measures again to launch such a propaganda campaign. Here, Prime Minister, the reasons for this have been given on a number of sides, such as that the European Union's financing method for crisis management can use its word to drive countries into debt slavery, and it is therefore necessary to launch some kind of consultation on this. Well, this must be opposed to government measures that really seriously indebte Hungarian society and Hungarian families for generations. We can think of the brutal Russian giga loan for Paks expansion, or we can think of the Chinese loan, from which this Budapest-Belgrád railway line is now being implemented. Then I do not understand, my fellow Members, or perhaps Mr Secretary of State, why the Prime Minister does not ask for consultations on this matter, if, for example, we say that the Hungarian Government has spent HUF 1000 billion on the votes of the MPs of the Government. Would the Hungarian society agree that the project, which can serve Chinese great authority interests, will be carried out at brutal costs, without guarantees of return or with guarantees that we do not know about? Why is there no national consultation in this regard? In fact, not only is there no national consultation, but they also encrypt the related documents. I also mentioned the Paks project. Well, here you are taxing all of us for generations, and basically putting energy policy on hold for a long and long time, in which you said, Prime Minister, even during the previous regime, that no government can cause this level of vulnerability and make such decisions, which in every respect increases the country's exposure, dependence on the various powerful games, great interests and brutally increases the exposure of the Hungarian economy. [[19.30]] In this respect, it would be justified not only to hold parliamentary debates but also to launch a national consultation. Similarly, we should talk about the way in which it can be accepted, and it is clear that any austerity measures which do not affect higher education are acceptable at all in our reading. In the previous debate, Minister of State Banai said to himself that I used the word that the government was using brutal restrictions. He said then that we could consider it a austerity, which means losing jobs, or imposing greater payment obligations and payment tasks for people. I think it is quite clear that if resources are withdrawn from the municipalities, then the municipalities will not be able to provide the most important public services at the current level, and they will be forced to involve funds elsewhere. This will not be a problem because of the municipalities, but will be a problem for the people living in those cities. So when the government takes resources away from the municipalities, it certainly takes austerity measures, because it will adversely affect people directly. But likewise, if the municipalities cannot make use of investment, they cannot maintain a variety of tasks, then jobs will be lost, and this will also exhaust the fact that the Government has indeed taken brutal austerity measures, as the Secretary of State of Banai has confirmed. And, yes, it must be said every time that these restrictions are faced with seriously irresponsible measures, such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, where, in particular, 70 thousand new jobs will be sacrificed this year alone in order to achieve this. Here, we spoke to Mr State Secretary, and next year's budget cannot see how much the Budapest-Belgrád railway line will be financed there. We can assume that at least HUF 100 billion, so if we compare it to 80 billion this year, it means that the government will sacrifice 150 thousand new jobs over a one-year horizon, that the Budapest-Belgrád railway line will not be justified or justified in terms of return. Secretary of State, you are a relatively high-ranking pro-government politician, why did you not consider it necessary to introduce a consultation with the Hungarian people? However, in the same way, further shameful measures affecting the countryside: we have talked a lot about it in relation to small settlements, not by us, opposition politicians, but by the leaders of the various local government associations, the leaders of the village association, that they will not be able to manage the withdrawal of the car tax, and two thirds of the settlements and small settlements will face serious liquidity problems. We cannot place where the government is going to withdraw from the financing of local public transport. It is quite clear that this task will not be solved by the municipalities, the cities. How can this task be financed? There are two options: municipalities drastically reduce flight density, reduce the quality, service of local public transport, or turn to the government for some specific support. What are the chances of you getting this? I think that the impact will be quite clear, that public transport will be of much lower quality in Hungary, that will increase air pollution, the risk of accidents in all respects, and that will also be associated with the epidemiological situation, because if air quality is reduced in a given city, it will clearly increase the development of serious complications. But I also have to mention the extremely cynical measure that 34 railway sidelines were virtually sentenced to death with a government measure, while spending 1000 billion forints on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Well, overall, I think that we agree that there is a historical responsibility on the government, there is a historical responsibility at Parliament, that in this situation it perceives what challenges we are facing, and what fundamental changes these challenges require of the government in order to ensure Hungarian national interests. Unfortunately, we do not see a trace of the government facing this task, and obviously we will discuss the details of this in the budgetary debate in the coming weeks. Thank you very much. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2020-06-03-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Timea Szabó, lead speaker of the Dialogue Group.
u2020-06-03-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first word on the part of the Dialogue is thanks, thank you for the work of all those who worked hard during the epidemic and helped to fight the epidemic. Then let us move on to the debate on the laws before us, and let us begin by saying that it is very interesting that the government has tabled these two legislative proposals, and it was also indicated in advance that Gergely Gulyás will be Minister of State for these two laws. Compared to this, the government did not bother to bring a minister here as rapporteur for such a law, which is important to us, they sent in a State Secretary in the person of Balázs Orbán. I guess that doesn't mean that much to you after all. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] Anyway, let's move on. It seems that it is more important to abuse the opposition than to stand before the people, in any case, in substance, and to undertake at ministerial level what the government has submitted. I'm guessing that Gergely Gulyás didn't want to do this with a name, face, no wonder. We have two draft laws before us, which you call an emergency withdrawal proposal. We prefer to call the renaming of an emergency for a health crisis, because that is exactly what we are talking about, there is no withdrawal here, practically anywhere at any time you can reorder the health crisis, in which practically the same powers are assigned to you, and even extended, as we have seen in this emergency. Both bill proposals are very interesting, but before we get to this, let's say a few words about the entire history of the delegation law itself. This was not a bad start, so there was an epidemic in which the ruling parties and the opposition could cooperate at the beginning. You've called seven-party negotiations, which we went to. There we started talking to each other in a very normal voice, and then suddenly something happened, and obviously it came to us that your boss, Viktor Orbán, said that there was no mention of government parties cooperating with the opposition. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: That was the other way around.]] They declared a crusade against everyone who was not Fidesz-KDNP, and they began to abuse opposition representatives during the epidemic, and here they are continuing the same debate on this law about who is the deputy of Ferenc Gyurcsány here. I'm sorry. He's so unworthy of this whole situation, really. Is that all you have to say about the epidemic? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Unfortunately, the fact that the seven-party agreement was stuck, the minor problem, was much worse than what became of this delegation law, which, on several points, was very serious against the Fundamental Law, which was not only said by me, but also told by Balázs Orbán himself on ATV. Very interesting, let me quote you, you said that we tried to keep the measures in force, and we hope that the Constitutional Court will be understanding. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] Let me tell you a few things about what Balázs Orbán meant by that. We also believe that there are very serious constitutional concerns about this law. The opposition has asked you to give a deadline for this, or to remain some kind of control, which is not that we can say speeches before the agenda, because that is not control. Let's not fool each other because we both know exactly what this is about. According to the Fundamental Law, the government decree in the event of an emergency may remain in force for 15 days without the confirmation of Parliament. On the other hand, the Delegated Act extended the scope of the regulation already before the creation, without the knowledge of the regulation and, of course, without its approval. This is contrary to the textual content of the Fundamental Law, because it requires the approval of the regulation adopted. A regulation which has not been adopted cannot be approved. It was a very serious violation or injury to the Fundamental Law. Then the unlimited time that we have talked about; the unlimited suspension of parliamentaryism, not subject to any time or objective conditions, is not compatible with the rule of law, even if you have just submitted this law on disincentives and, thirdly, it has appeared here that you have suspended fundamental rights in connection with the epidemic that were not necessary. They would have allowed personal freedom, such as the right of association, to be restricted. It also violates the principle of power-sharing, unduly giving the executive power powers that would otherwise have been purely legislative. [[19.40]] But let's look at the two laws that are in front of us right now. Here, my fellow Members have mentioned that this is, in fact, a hoax; this mandate, which you now seem to want to withdraw, will never end, will be renamed quite simply. The law on the elimination of an emergency does not eliminate the emergency at all, but it illustrates that in Hungary Parliament does not have a government, but a parliament of the government. In your view, the emergency will be eliminated by you asking for yourself, i.e. the government asking itself to eliminate this emergency or health crisis, and this, in addition, does not appear to be a deadline in this bill, even though they claim otherwise. The government's asking for you. It doesn't make any sense. We know that it makes so much sense that you are seducing the European Union, that your power is not unlimited, but we know that it is not so difficult to see through this entire draft legislation. What is more problematic is the amendment to the Disaster Protection Act, which would remove important guarantees from the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law also tries to maintain the balance of powers in an emergency by allowing the government to suspend and derogate from the laws, but only in such a circle and way as the Parliament previously regulates in the Disaster Protection Act. In the Disaster Protection Act, it would now be stated that, if these measures are not sufficiently defined by Parliament, the government may take any other measures. In effect, the provision of the Fundamental Law does not make any sense that the government can use this special mandate only as determined by a pivotal law, because the cardinal law no longer determines anything, allows anything the government sees fit in the given situation. The proposal for transitional measures includes another non-temporary provision at all. By amending the rules of the health crisis, they create a pair of this special legal order, in which the Government can initially restrict by regulation fundamental rights, such as freedom of movement or assembly, for a period of up to six months but in fact unlimited extension. We see that it is nowhere near here, then once again, the withdrawal of this law. Yes, unfortunately, the people who said that you would abuse this authority, yes, they are not using this authority for what it was supposed to be to treat this epidemic intelligently. In addition, Parliament, yes, has been excluded, and in this new proposal now they do not give any appearances, so the Parliament is now completely out of the law, and the government will give you the authority. So, unfortunately, my fellow Members, here neither the opposition nor the people nor the European Union will be deceived by this bill. Let's take a look at the 250 - page salad law, in which there are several points that otherwise have nothing to do with this law, such as the slave law 2.0, as is unfortunately called. What we see here is that measures are being put in place after the slave law, which severely restrict workers' rights in the future, many trade unions have spoken on this matter. We strongly ask the Government to take this out of this salad law and not allow the Minister responsible for employment policy to authorise the 24-month working time limit and the same length of settlement period. This will mean, in practice, that the employer can afford to give the employee one day of rest each month and take out so much, so that is in fact a violation of fundamental rights which, in particular, are not fair to present in such a salad law, to put it mildly. You can prescribe 12 hours a day in the long term, without extra hours, of course, because instead of working hours, the employer can give you rest days. The worker is also bound by the measure, because the person who does not work now has negative hours and debts accumulated, which he will have to pay back when he wants to change jobs or retire. Moreover, the conditions under which the minister may order this are not clear at all and can be interpreted flexibly enough to be subtle. The argument system is also difficult to follow. So far, we have heard that the long framework protects jobs, and now that it will create jobs. We are also asking that this part be withdrawn from this salad law, because they know precisely that the European Commission is already examining the issue of the slave law 1.0. I don't think we should make this worse with this tightening up. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: When are you apologizing?]] And let's take a look at what else is in this salad law. There's been a lot of talk here, so I wouldn't waste much time with these. Let me point out one more thing, however, as you make it easier, for example, to reopen or open mines. It is very difficult not to interpret this as not wanting to help the businesses of Viktor Orbán's father again, who has a serious interest in this. What the Mining Act is doing in a health crisis law or what the Mining Act is doing in a bill for emergency withdrawal is a mystery, to put it mildly. Let us now also look at what you have done in health care and during the entire epidemic, what the measures you believe have been so exemplary. Let's start with health. Unfortunately, we have heard all kinds of production reports from Péter Szijjártó about how many tons and hundreds of thousands and how many millions of masks have arrived. Compared to this, for example, in my constituency, the III. In the district, until today, no masks have been sent from the state to the official clinics. For Mihály Varga, who is the representative of the Parliament in the other part of the district, he didn't bother to walk into the clinic in his own district and at least bring some masks from PR. So you don't... [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Not during the plague. Yes, it's true. He didn't take any masks. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: It's on Facebook!]] Well, maybe he took it now, after the plague. He didn't take me during the plague, and that's a fact. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: At least say one thing that is true.]] Similarly, there were no masks and protective equipment for weeks in hospitals, health care workers. They posted this themselves on Facebook. But by the way, we also saw Viktor Orbán on his own Facebook posts that while he was flashing in a full-on astronaut suit, the doctor who received him was either wearing a canvas mask or a non-sterile surgical mask, so that you were able to secure the protective equipment. Unfortunately, there were also problems with ventilators, poor quality in hospitals and health facilities. The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs himself acknowledged that there were several machines that did not have a CE rating, which was sufficient to treat sleep disorders, and not to treat covid patients in an intensive care unit in hospitals. You also managed to further humiliate health workers during the epidemic. According to several reports, these health workers have brought home even less wages than they did during the period before the epidemic. In the Covid class of János Hospital, 100,000 forints were taken home a month by nurses working there. 100,000 forints is what a health worker's work in an epidemic treatment is worth to you. This, I think, is at least a shame. In addition, a one-off payment of HUF 500,000 has not yet been received for healthcare workers. We don't know what's taking them four months to raise this money. Lőrinc Mészáros has managed to pay hundreds of billions of dollars in this time. It seems that the government has priorities for who to pay first and to whom to pay later on the health care workers end up at the end of the line. Nor were their economic measures, to put it mildly, the most effective and far behind the assistance of the European countries. For example, the wage support for job protection was very slim, with 200 billion forints on it. We're talking about half a million people here. 500,000 people lost their jobs or lost their jobs, 330,000 registered jobseekers were in Hungary at the end of April, and hundreds of thousands of people were not registered, but were left at home on unpaid leave, such as tens of thousands of mothers who had to stay home with their schoolchildren. [[19.50]] They didn't get a penny, and they don't get 60 days, because we know exactly that the office has at least 60 days of registration, and it is until a single penny of job search support arrives. On the other hand, they managed to pay HUF 200 billion for wage support, while Lőrinc Mészáros managed to pay HUF 187 billion during this time. Why don't you explain to me how Lőrinc Mészáros' hotel constructions come to the disease management? Why is it so essential for you that Lőrinc Mészáros, Viktor Orbán's stróman, is constantly fed at this level with hundreds of billions? It's a shameless and vile thing you're doing about it. Let's see what other measures have been taken. We saw that this measure, the 200 billion, was a bit slim compared to one man, Lőrinc Mészáros, who paid an almost the same amount. But they say that you have taken very important measures during the epidemic, which are closely linked to the protection against the epidemic. Consider some of these, such as the HUF 700 billion investment of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which was immediately encrypted for ten years. Obviously, this is so essential to an epidemic treatment that it almost doesn't have to be explained. The introduction of special economic zones, which is the whole of local authorities, seems equally essential. Interestingly, this mainly affected opposition-led cities. Then the withdrawal of the status of civil servants in the cultural sphere was also an essential part of your view of the disease management, but also of the fact that their action against the ratification of the Istanbul Convention was in the middle of the epidemic, with all sorts of stomach-swallowing, said reasons. Of course, there was something to cover up the fact that László Fat made all the women wait during the plague. I understand you've been trying to draw attention from the Speaker of the House. But if you can explain to me how this is connected to the plague, I'll thank you. It was also possible to introduce university einstands or to extend the response to data requests to regulatory measures. This is obviously a very important epidemiological measure, as was the free parking or the taking of a car tax. But once again, the 186 billion they gave Lőrinc the Butcher wanted to fight the plague. We also know that a number of very vile and inhuman measures have been introduced, and that the Btk.'s pass on rumors has been encrypted. In vain, we told them not to do so, because we knew precisely at the meeting that it would be against journalists and against people with opposition thinking. That's what happened. You used the time to defend yourself against the epidemic to send the police out to innocent people's homes at dawn, intimidate them because you dared to tell the truth about what Miklós Kásler did to empty hospital beds. Yes, their other epidemiological measure was that they allowed Miklós Kásler to continue for months on the rampage that led to the deaths of hundreds of people. We're waiting for the real numbers. We know precisely whether the story of Terike in Óbuda or the story of the 33-year-old woman who was sent from hospital to hospital and died, this is all due to the fact that hospitals had no idea what to do. Because, let alone by decree, Miklós Kásler wrote to the hospitals in an unprecedented manner during the epidemic, not listening to the profession who dared to say otherwise, and fired it quite simply. 32,000 beds had to be evacuated unnecessarily, leading to the death, maiming, or serious damage to health of thousands of people at serious risk. The one who was sent home after a stroke, didn't get rehab and wasn't taught to walk or talk again, and then won't thank you for sending him home from the ORI, for example. But let's see what else they spent on during the plague. I mentioned that Lőrinc Mészáros has pocketed 186 billion forints in the last two months. If we look at what this is all about, we'll see again what the whole epidemic treatment meant to the government. I would just like to point out one thing: between Bet and Győr, one of Lőrinc Mészáros's companies won a road renewal competition; not a highway, but a highway renewal tender for 17.6 kilometers. He received HUF 46.2 billion to build 17 kilometers of highways. This means that Lőrinc Mészáros's company will build a kilometer of highway for almost HUF 3 billion. According to the European Court of Auditors, the average cost of a highway in Europe is HUF 1.1 billion per km. Lőrinc Mészáros will build this for 2.7 billion forints. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 26 kilometers!]] That's another one, you're looking at it wrong. There's 17.6 kilometers in your chart. But if there are 26 kilometers, my fellow Member, the average cost is not 2.7 billion, but 2.2 billion forints. This is exactly twice as much as the European average. But he also received 1.7 billion forints to renovate the Hunguest Hotels chain and renovate buildings, and immediately fired 800 people as a job creation and job protection operation. Looks like the government wasn't satisfied with the hundreds of thousands of people who lost their jobs during the outbreak. Butcher Lion was also rewarded for sending more men off the job. But let's see what else they've spent, because there are a lot of interesting things here, like sports subsidies. He spent 514 million forints on the investment of the Athletic Centre in Szeged, 300 million for the stadium operation of the Advanced Sports Association, 300 million for the professional support of competitions and Olympic preparation, 450 million for the preparation of the Honvéd Sports Association's facility development program, 1 billion forints for the Bozsik Stadium, and can still be classified for a long time. You didn't reward health workers, you didn't give decent wages to health workers, you gave money to Lőrinc Mészáros and stadiums. That is why you need the mandate, and that is why you need to rename the mandate now, so that you can continue to steal public funds; so that there is no controlling role for the Parliament or the committees, no one left. You say he has a controlling role and the Parliament worked. Well, we weren't able to invite the operational tribe to the People's Welfare Committee because they didn't show up. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They were there!]] They came once, but when they found out about the serious abuse at Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital, they didn't show up. Twice they didn't show up, refused to tell us what had happened, and why these abuses had occurred. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Yes! Unfortunately, that's what happened. You can look at the report. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] My fellow Members, there are two other very interesting things about spending. Let me get these two out of the way. One of the former players of the Tiszakécske football team and the company it created received HUF 8 billion, also for hotel renovation last week. This company didn't exist the day before. Dear fellow Members, this is nothing more than an economic fraud, on which the Dialogue also reported. Well, what do you think you're doing, giving 8 billion forints to a company that doesn't exist the other day for a hotel renovation? ! You don't give a damn about appearances! They're stealing public money like... I'm not saying metaphors, because then... now maybe it's changed, the new headmaster may not be giving me a push as much as the last one, but I'd rather hold back. [[20.00]] So the thing is, you've been hoarding pure economic fraud here for the last two months, talking about what Ferenc Gyurcsány is doing. Ferenc Gyurcsány doesn't govern. You've been in government for 10 years, you've been stealing public funds for 10 years, and you've been stealing hundreds of billions of public funds during this epidemic. Then it is also very interesting that Club Aliga received HUF 7.3 billion through an Appeninn project company. One of the leaders of this company is Ádám Détári-Szabó, who was the election committee delegate of the Together 2014 fake party. That's the fake couple that you've clearly created to deceive voters about a different party by the same name. Now it seems that the former head of this fake party called Together 2014 was first employed in the Foreign Ministry's backup company, and now received HUF 7.3 billion in public money. Ladies and gentlemen, However, if we look at the legislative proposals before us in general, the last two months, then it is not that we or the people or the European Union should apologize to you, but that it is very, very serious that you have abused this mandate in the most fierce way, and that you want to continue to do the same with the name-named mandate law. This was and this will be Viktor Orbán's disease management. We're not gonna give them our names. Half a million people have been abandoned, health care abandoned, slave law tightened, and public money stolen to hundreds of billions. I'm sorry, it's the top of the line of insolence, that they have the nerve to come in with a 200-page salad law and say that everything was fine here. It wasn't okay, it's not gonna be okay, they're using their powers, they're gonna have to stop this very quickly. Unfortunately, it is not a coincidence that the OECD's report has just come out, in which it has been said that in Hungary the management of public funds and the transparency of the budget are becoming increasingly opaque. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: City Hall!]] We've missed a lot of new places in OECD countries. Hungary scored 45 points out of 100 points available. This means that Hungary has failed in transparency, because from 60 points the 2nd grade is due, for 45 points 1 is awarded. By the way, Hungary slipped back to the 60th place out of the 100. Countries such as Georgia, Mexico, Ukraine, Guatemala have preceded us in transparency. If I were you, I'd be very, very ashamed of you. Here it is not the opposition, nor the Union, that must apologize, but you must apologize and withdraw this law, withdraw the authority that was not required under the Fundamental Law, or because of the disease management. Stop the abuse of power and, above all, stop pulling off public funds to this extent. Thank you.
u2020-06-03-162	Thank you very much. Good evening. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. So I give the floor to Dóra Dúró, an independent congressman. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Our country has supported the Crown Virus Act as the only opposition party, and we will, of course, support the Emergency Withdrawal Act. We believe that Hungary is in a situation where there is no place simply for party political battles, we must now put them aside, and we must all take the side of action. We did this on a movemental basis and in Parliament, which is why we supported this law, because it was only one of the most important questions that preceded everything else, and this question is what we can do to protect the health and lives of as many of our fellow citizens as possible. This is the only question that guided our actions, even when we pressed a button here in Parliament, and even when we put our party's resources in the service of the elderly in the last two months, primarily by declaring a non-contact shopping mission to them. So anyone in the country could have called the central telephone number of our country's Movement, and throughout the country, our organizations helped the elderly to get out of their homes as little as possible. But we have also had a number of other voluntary movement actions in the last two months, and we have also made proposals both for the Parliament and for the government, which have partly been implemented and for other social actors. Such was the initiative to make free calls to older people, which were also received by two large telephone companies, and allowed elderly people over 65 years of age to do so. The question we had to ask in Parliament was that protection would be more effective if we supported the Crown Virus Act or if protection was more effective if we didn't support the Crown Virus Act. That is what this debate was all about, and that is what this mandate was all about. It was quite clear to us, as opposition representatives, that we would support the protection of our fellow countrymen's lives. I would like to thank the health, social and law enforcement workers in our country on behalf of the Movement, and thank all the people who have used any self-limiting or any kind of commitment to make this defense more effective. Thanks to teachers, thanks to parents who have raised children, all of them have faced extraordinary difficulties in recent months, and thanks also to the elderly who have respected the restrictions that were needed. They say we couldn't have done it without them. We can now use an even stronger term: in fact, they have succeeded in the fact that this epidemic has not caused any more casualties in Hungary. Despite all the self-police, the government made mistakes in defense. Obviously, they lied on several occasions, contradicted themselves in their later statements when, for example, they spoke of the fact that they could not disclose their territorial division to the infected because they would violate personal rights and then published it at a later date. So they contradicted themselves in this regard, too. But sending teachers on unpaid leave was also such a lie on the part of the government, which was also due to political tactics. So when this is thrown into the eye of the opposition, it is good to have a self - examination in this regard. But these little lies were not the government's greatest omissions or biggest crimes in relation to the coronal virus epidemic, but the most profound problem was the state in which the Hungarian health system, the Hungarian social system, was affected by this epidemic. You have been in government for 10 years, you have two-thirds authority here in Parliament, for 10 years practically any laws can be passed, you have created a new Fundamental Law. So the responsibility you bear for Hungary's state of health, the state of Hungarian health and the state of the Hungarian social system is difficult to blame on any opposition party or opposition politician. Those who work in these sectors must work both spiritually and humanly extremely hard every day, and not only when there is a coronal virus epidemic. Over the past few months, this strain has become even stronger, and they have been under even greater pressure, and they, I must say, have solved the situation that they have faced very well and exemplary. This extraordinary burden is coupled with extremely low wages in these sectors as well. Unacceptable, ridiculous is the fact that graduates in the social system or in the healthcare system earn barely more than 100 thousand forints a month. I hope that this epidemic will also draw your attention to this unsustainable situation, because in each of the sectors concerned the shortage of numbers and the lack of preparedness have been achieved and shown. [[20.10]] The government could have done a lot more for the population over the past few years. They also lied about the fact that the government cannot introduce official prices, for example, for protective equipment imported from abroad or imported from abroad. This was simply not true, because the Poles had done so by introducing an official price for masks, so there could not have been a scandalous situation that occurred in Hungary, where almost ten thousand forints were asked for a mask when the plague arrived. And you have failed to introduce this official price to disinfectants, protective equipment, and even food. There is, therefore, an example within the European Union where this was done, and it was also introduced for food in countries other than Poland. It is also unacceptable for you to take the view that you have punished local governments, for example, in dealing with the economic situation. In this situation, too, the municipalities had a huge responsibility, and they had to act, and in this case they were badly affected by the fact that they had to face withdrawal instead of supporting their actions, which would have enabled them to make protection more effective, so you obviously did not intend to do so here either. The banks have also been treated with extreme care in this situation, which is also contrary to your communication, as they are almost the only ones who have to contribute to the cost of protection for a certain period of time, they will have this money which has now been taken away from them, and they will practically get it back in the future. But not only were they so generous to the banks, but, despite the huge puffing, multinational companies continue to carry out hundreds of billions of dollars from Hungary, and you did not even think about strengthening the Hungarian budget from those, helping them, and even companies that have gained extra profit because of the epidemic do not take part in restoring the economic situation and restoring it. But not only did they not involve banks, not only did they not properly involve multinational companies in dealing with this crisis, but they are now further harassing workers in a completely inappropriate way in this salad law, which is also unacceptable and has not been mentioned at all in the past. We also have proposals on the epidemic situation and on the recovery after the outbreak, which I ask the Secretary of State to consider. On the one hand, I talked about the fact that the families who raised children were extremely busy at home because of the closure of schools and kindergartens, and a lot of people were unable to solve babysitting, especially towards the end of the epidemic, when parents had to go back to work physically. We therefore recommend that parents receive ten days of additional leave per month for this period, since families have not been able to bridge it properly. We also propose to the government this is a new aspect that I would like to bring into my speech, and I may not have said enough about this, that scientists who have been able to isolate the virus in Hungary for the first time, who have participated in this, will receive the Semmelweis Prize, because it was an honorable scientific achievement. We ask the Secretary of State to consider the introduction of this award and the award of this award to them. The salad law that has been submitted puts the opposition in a very difficult position due to the nature of the salad law, since it has a number of measures that we consider eligible; it is clear that the regulations that have been put in place for the recovery of the economy and really help people must be supported by all reasonable people. However, those parts which are not in any context with the management of the situation or which have a specific negative impact on either the workers or the municipalities are not eligible for our support. Overall, all I can say is that the mentality represented by the Hungarian Movement from the beginning of the epidemic will continue to exist, we will continue to make constructive proposals, and people can count on us, we will continue to support them. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause in the ranks of independent representatives.]] Thank you.
u2020-06-03-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, the first among which to be heard by Mr László Szakács, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Obviously, there are a lot of things that we could respond to from the government side, two minutes may not be enough to try to respond to the Sitkas of the last three hours, but it may be possible to say that this, unfortunately, was infinitely unparalleled on the part of the government. They were just dealing with the opposition, saying the same things they said in the last month, instead of thanking at least one of you who worked on the front line. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I thanked you too!]] he would have expressed his condolences on them. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Thank you! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] to those who have died, to their family's sympathy [[A statement from the ruling parties: You weren't here!]] But I was right here. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Look at the report.]] I also think that this debate would have been worth more, and now I feel like the Economic Committee at its meeting that I am glad that this debate is only in such a narrow circle, because at least a little less people have heard this rather unparalleled thing on your part. They say we attacked the banker. No, we didn't. You didn't issue a banker. You will return that to the banks next year. You say that the professionals suggested everything. Which expert suggested the suspension of collective agreements, honourable Members? You can also tell me quickly! They say the country has remained financially independent. How? We owe China, we owe Russia, we owe everyone. Don't be ridiculous. What made us financially independent? We see corruption, we see the tax collectors of poverty around you one by one, and we see that you have not really learned from these things, and that this country has not learned very much how to be self-sufficient; that is not what your proposals have told us, that we were the only ones who could eat, that is what this debate was about. I'm really sorry about that.
u2020-06-03-166	Thank you. Congressman Székely, independent, in two minutes.
u2020-06-03-167	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Thanks to the discipline of Hungarians and the skill and self-sacrifice of health workers, the epidemic is a tragedy, although every victim is a tragedy, but somehow we got away with it, and that is very good, and really thanks to everyone who participated in this either on the government side or in the opposition. That's good. What is not good at all is that during the epidemic, you have exacerbated the social crisis that has already been raging here before the epidemic. Instead of protecting jobs, you have taxed the banks as many people here have already said that Hungarian workers will give them back one and a half times that in five years. Instead of raising it, let's say, the family allowance was raised to HUF 37 500, under the name of the gardener. Instead of, say, imposing exceptional dividends on capitalists and their own oligarchs, instead of taking advantage of this whole situation, they want to put an end to the delegation law by introducing the slave law 2.0, which could mean that some people get a day off a month, so that their wages won't increase. I think that this is unacceptable, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are not in Parliament to have your family or friends make billions, but to have all the families in this country prosper. Therefore, I ask you to be brave, and these two legislative proposals will in no way be accepted in this form. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-168	Thank you. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, please.
u2020-06-03-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, on behalf of the pro-government Members and perhaps the Secretary of State, I would like to reject the lie of Mr Cook, saying that we would not have thanked those in the first row for their work and struggle. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] We all thanked him, either he wasn't here, or he wasn't listening, or he was talking to his fellow Members, or he yelled at us, but we thanked him, so please don't say that again. [[20.20]] A refreshing exception is that Congresswoman Timea Szabó, Head of the Group, listens to the answer, and I thank her very much for that. I'm sorry that you've been adding more lies to the lies of the last few months, saying that once the operational tribe came to the People's Welfare Committee meeting. You are also a member of the Committee and I have been there on several occasions and reported to the operational tribe. The last time they could be asked for four hours, and the next item was the Mayor said that he was tired. That was pretty much the level difference. We also learned that you think it's a PR operation to take the masks to a medical facility or clinic. We understand that. Don't be offended, Congresswoman, because we said you were one of Ferenc Gyurcsány's deputies. You signed up for this position, you're filling it in. Don't be offended, you're doing this job, that's what it is, that's the political situation. However, for which an apology could have been made in 30 minutes, but it was not possible to do so, the fact is that he once asked us why we were bringing protective equipment to Hungarian communities across the border, and at other times, here, before the Parliament's plenum, he claimed that Hungary had the largest mortality rate in the world. For these two things, an apology could have come in 30 minutes, not for us, we're used to it, Hungarian people could have had an apology for these two things. We've been listening to your speech for 30 minutes. Unfortunately, there's no time for that. I hope you'll do that for at least two minutes. I'm asking you that next time and then I'm sure you'll be able to pay more attention not just to leave your phone there to live, but also to be there for you. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Bajkai applauds.]]
u2020-06-03-170	Congresswoman Timea Szabó, Group Leader, Dialogue!
u2020-06-03-171	Iron Applause! I say to my colleague Mr Lőrinc Nacsa that, unfortunately, in an epidemic situation, there was no nursery, no school, no babysitter, no grandmother, so I really couldn't be here. I'm still here at 8:15, and I'm really supposed to be with my two-year-old and 12-year-old. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Me and me too!]] And I'm not sitting in Parliament at 8:00 p.m. You're constantly not telling the truth again, talking about what we've asked for across the border. We asked that the domestic hospitals didn't get the masks and didn't get the protective equipment because they didn't arrive. That's not what we're saying. It's doctors, nurses and hospital staff working in the hospital. Once again, the III. in the district, which is the sixth largest city in Hungary in terms of population, until two weeks ago, only one piece of protective equipment received from the state did not arrive at the three specialist clinics. That's what the head of the clinic told us in person. So, unfortunately, you didn't distribute these masks. Who knows if they actually arrived or not. So I suggest you take a look around your own house. Once again, don't abuse this mandate, don't steal public money, and count on spending public money, why not protect health workers. We know very well that once the epidemic is over, the nurses will leave the country again with a mass of doctors because you give them less money each month than you give the workers in forestry, the workers in agriculture, and many of the workers whose jobs are worth the same, but it seems that health care still doesn't matter to you. That's what we're asking of you. Stop stealing and value health care workers. Thank you.
u2020-06-03-172	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2020-06-03-173	Thank you very much. I would like to clarify an important misunderstanding by Congressman Nacsa. At least as the leader of the faction, I am Ferenc Gyurcsány's deputy and not a representative or a congresswoman. I understand that this problem concerns Congressman Nacsa, but unfortunately I cannot promise you that if you work hard and hard, you can do this because with this past you can never be a DK candidate, I'm afraid. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-03-174	Thank you so much for clearing up this big misunderstanding. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And he's proud of it!]] On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm sorry to start with a personal remark, but if you've already started with a personal remark from Congresswoman Szabó Timea and asked the government and everyone to know why I'm here, then I think I can afford so much. I think it is our duty, as Members of Parliament and me, as representatives of the government, and the duty of the dog to be here to discuss this bill. Everyone has family, loved ones, children, grandparents, whom they take care of, and if they have to do so at 8:30 p.m., they have to do so at 8:30 p.m. Calm down, I'm gonna be sitting here at midnight, and you're definitely gonna leave. If you will listen to my speech, thank you very much, if not, but we will be here. I think that every Member of Parliament and every member of government in this situation has had a duty over the last few months to do the same thing as law enforcement workers, social workers, health workers and everyone else. If I may, I would like to respond in a few sentences to what has been said so far so that they do not remain unresponsive. From the very first moment, the government has made it clear that authorisation of the Crown Virus Act is necessary. It is simply necessary for us to be able to take the measures that have been taken to protect life, health and jobs, and, as many of you have acknowledged, they have brought success. There were at least two or three opposition representatives, whose teeth were very tight, and it was very difficult to come out of you, but it came out that we were able to survive the first phase of the epidemic successfully. This Coronary Virus Protection Act, which we are now discussing, was necessary for this defence. Secondly, we have also made it clear from the very first moment that we are also thinking about maintaining Parliament's control function. So we want Parliament to be able to fulfil the control function that the Fundamental Law guarantees. We hoped that there would not be a situation where he would not be able to do so, but no one could say so with certainty then. Therefore, from the very first moment we strengthened Parliament's control function, and we said that the legislative proposals that are directly linked to the control of the disease will be introduced into the legislative channel related to the extraordinary legal order, so that we do not endanger human life and human health because of the delay, and that the legislative proposals which are not directly linked to the control of the coronal virus will be discussed in the ordinary legislation. So I understand the speeches in which you are criticising these proposals, and that is all right, because it is the task of the opposition representatives, I would just like to draw attention to it, because here in recent months a few things have been misunderstood if I want to be benign, and I would like to avoid getting involved in any more of these misunderstandings, that we have been saying from the very first moment that these proposals, which are not directly related to the protection against the coronal virus, are being discussed within the ordinary legislative framework. The fact that you do not agree with these proposals is fine, but regardless, this does not affect the normal functioning of Parliament or the normal course of governance in any negative direction. Some Members commented on what else should be included in the bill. Here, since the transformation of the entire health system, the proposals for a complete economic governance structure were made on one side and on the other, that we had written all kinds of laws. Now I'm uncertain, I don't know what kind of guidance opposition representatives want to give the government, because I can't start from this. The only thing I see is that if he's wearing a hat, the problem is, if he's not wearing a hat, that's the problem. So it really doesn't matter to you what we write in it, and it seems that there is no agreement between you in this regard. One person stands up from the same party, even, and says there's too much in it, another person stands up and says there's too little in it. I do not consider this to be a serious parliamentary work. The health crisis, the new mandate. When you say that the rules of health crisis or emergency preparedness do not matter how we write it, or will report it to 2.0, I would warn you in the context of not being like the Bourbons, that they have not learned anything, that they have not forgotten anything. [[20.30]] Because once they have walked into this trap, once they have made this mistake, once they have alarmed the Hungarian people, and even if we are to be honest, they have actually been threatening Hungarian people with dictatorship for ten years, and every time we find out that the government is doing its job and that there is no dictatorship, you will be left at a standstill. I would therefore draw your attention to reading the bill, look at this bill I looked up, I had time to read 307. In its section, there is what the government can do in a health crisis. As I told you in the exposé, it is quite clear that these are primarily life and health measures, which make it possible to take about a third of the measures taken, or perhaps even less. This requires a complex constitutional assessment, but it is certain that all measures relating to the protection of the economy and the protection of the workplace could not be taken on this basis, for example. So it's quite clear that there's no connection between the two things that you're saying. What Mr Arató criticized was one of the... criticisms of the law, but then what he said about the provisions of the Fundamental Law on special rules of law was considered a constructive criticism; so what Mr Arató criticized, we regard as one of the strengths of the proposal, is that it is indeed the case that the rules on extraordinary legal order may be that Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be applied. They are not well in the context of centuries of threats. These have been the case before, and we have also regulated it in the previous constitution, and the Fundamental Law has taken over this regulatory logic. Then there was a fundamental amendment to the law on the terrorist threat, but the regulatory logic has not changed, and even if we look at the provisions of the disaster protection law, it was based on the regulatory logic of the previous law, and it is quite clear that Article XXI of the Act is the same. In the 20th century emergency formations, in formations that extend throughout the country, in forms that represent, for example, the pandemic, it is simply not suitable for the full, 100%, to perform its task. We want to resolve this situation in such a way, and that is why I believe that this is the strength of the proposal, that the solution that has already worked, this is the construction set out in the Coronary Virus Protection Act, which will also be included in the Disaster Protection Act. Therefore, it is not necessary to adopt a law on the protection of Crown Virus once again, but only to extend the scope of the measures from 15 days, if the Parliament does not give, God, once again there is a situation where it is not enough to maintain the epidemiological preparedness situation, but it is necessary to introduce a special state of law or a human epidemic or for other reasons. So we think it's a very, very important guarantee. A number of people have objected to the lack of information obligations. I'm sorry, but I just can't take this criticism seriously, because it's about two things being said at once again. On the one hand, they claim that the epidemiological experts and the hospital managers responsible for defence, chief officers and law enforcement officials have not informed citizens enough, but on the other hand they are constantly mocking their information solutions. So these two things can't be true at the same time. The fact is, if you look back on the government information page on the coronal virus, these health professionals, these epidemiological experts, these virologists, these law enforcement professionals were not politicians, but they considered the information to be a key point in the fight against the epidemic, and in the darkest hours, they stood before the public of the entire country every day and answered all questions with professional, precise and great devotion. I think, given that they are not part of this political arena, they should not be criticised, but should be thanked for their work, and that would be a point in which both sides could agree. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] If, by the way, you wouldn't be conducting an embarrassing campaign to control this epidemic, I'll say it again, not politicians, or experts in the control of disease control. With regard to the law on the elimination of an emergency itself, and therefore the shorter law on the codification anomalies, Mr Bellozó mentioned this, he is not here, but I would like to make it clear that this is a codification solution that follows the logic of the Fundamental Law. So you may not like this, but it's the logic of the Fundamental Law. You did not like the logic of the Law on the Protection of Crown Virus, but you managed to create a constitutional structure on the one hand and manage the first wave of the disease successfully. So I think that there is no room for further debate here, in the sense of reason. Why is this a constitutional construct, and why should it be done this way? Because the Act on the Protection of Crown Virus must be annulled by the National Assembly. If you look at the law 2. This law is hereby repealed, so that you Members of Parliament must make such an order. And it is true that, in the event of an emergency, the Parliament can make a request to the government, and the government can withdraw the emergency at the same time as it expires. And why the government is bringing it in anyway? Anyone could submit any proposal to this effect to the Parliament [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You should teach what you're talking about.]] From a constitutional public point of view, the powers, as we said from the first moment, belong to the Parliament. I understand that you have somehow tried to explain the fatal historical error that you have made, that you have not even pressed a single yes button in the defense against the coronal virus, but that you have prevented the defence by even one single non-voting vote, but the reality is that in such a constitutional design, the National Assembly will repeal the law on the protection of the coronal virus and the emergency will cease and the state of normal legal order will be restored. That's what's gonna happen. If they deny it, they'll be caught in denial of reality again. In the context of defence and police tasks, in the context of the operation of the defence and police: this is a serious issue, and I think it is also worth arguing about in connection with other legislative proposals, because it is true that there is a situation, there is a constitutional basis for the separation of the duties of the police and the defence, and in a constitutional democracy this is important, especially in the case of a country that becomes a dictatorship into democracy, so that the military is deployed only in the most necessary cases and only in the most extreme cases. This system of rules is, by the way, contained in Hungarian law, but there are cases where, quite simply, the country cannot afford that luxury, and I know that as opposition Members of Parliament, you do not have to take on this type of responsibility, but I, as one of the government's secretary of state, the entire government and the MPs of government, have to assume this responsibility. We simply cannot do that when the country is in trouble, and when illegal migration is at its peak, for example, when rules on compliance with the curfew need to be checked in the context of protection against a coronal virus epidemic, for example, we can do the luxury of having our soldiers in the barracks and our police officers at the border. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] or do not participate in these tasks. We simply can't do this, so we need to create the possibility and legal basis (The President will announce the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell. ) Forgive me, the last thought, Mr President, if I may, in this context, as a closing thought, must be the opportunity for them to carry out police duties in a special situation, in such a special state, but they need the same powers as the police. I will respond later to what has been said. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for your patience. [[20.40]]
u2020-06-03-176	We are pleased to hear this, and the Secretary of State will also have the opportunity in the next speech to respect house rules in terms of timeframe. Congresswoman Timea Szabó applied in order of business. You have one minute, Congresswoman.
u2020-06-03-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say to Mr Orbán, Secretary of State, because he spoke to me that he is absolutely right that, if necessary, we should be here to argue until midnight, but I am a nursing mother, so I have to go home, and I cannot give this to my father, so I really hope that the family-friendly government will not take this to account of me. I wanted this to be on the record, because I hear it all the time... I mean, it's almost quarter to nine, I'd love to stay, but unfortunately, that's how nature made us, so I have to go home. Thank you, Mr. President. [[L. Simon László: This was an important speech, it was meaningful!]]
u2020-06-03-178	Thank you. Thank you very much. I don't see it as order of business, but we obviously appreciate it as an announcement. We must return to a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz representative, István Bajkai, is next. Congressman, please.
u2020-06-03-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Although we really need to take account of our families, I think that, despite the fact that some of our fellow Members, to whom I wanted to respond or actually wanted to respond, are no longer here, nevertheless, I am trying to make my point short, taking into account the necessity and proportionality, partly because the Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State, has already partly touched on what I wanted to say. In his first speech, our fellow Member, Mr László Lukács, said that it would not have been necessary to introduce legislation against the Crown Virus itself. Although, apart from the fact that this did not contain any legal support, one question can be asked: how would you have responded when this virus situation occurred in the world. Would they have brought legislation, perhaps waited for the virus to spread, or would they have gone out to Parliament, pointed some laser lights at the façade, and then sang the International? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: István, this is beyond the limit!]] So what do you think should have been done at a time like this? Although the debate was not really about the health situation, I would add that health care has passed a good test. We all thanked you for a reason, and here I would like to correct the sentence of my fellow Member Cook, and to refuse to do so, my fellow Member has already done so, that we have not thanked him. We've all thanked you, at least here in Parliament, to remember a few hours of events. Healthcare has passed a good test, and if we look at and look back at what statistical and sad data has come to know in Europe in countries that are more advanced than we are, and what we have witnessed, then we must say that the health care that and then the workers must be praised again, and we must thank them for their work and face to face... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's it? Thank you for your work. A short sentence, if you will allow me: a series of mistakes have been made here today in the speeches, on which there is no time to respond, but I would like to say that the crisis, which you call a crisis, is not the case in the legislation. The legislation is specifically about health preparedness and it is about transitional provisions. That's what you do...
u2020-06-03-180	Congressman, please.
u2020-06-03-181	... rename me, brand me, label me. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-182	We'll be on our way right away, but with all due respect, I've been elected, among other things, to enforce the house rules. This applies equally to pro-government, government and opposition. This genre is two minutes old, it bears its two-minute name because it's two minutes long. That's why I'm asking you all to respect that. We now return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced: Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, independent. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think that nothing extraordinary has happened here today, that Fidesz and KDNP are doing this debate in the same style as they have treated the opposition not only during the whole crisis management, but also opposition voters. And I think that it is indeed a historical situation that, while this crisis is being experienced not only by Hungary but also by the whole world, László Kövér has virtually declared half of the country extra-national. I think that this is a very specific way of expressing solidarity, which the Fidesz, like the KDNP, has said above. He kept talking about cooperation, and meanwhile, the man who is one of the proud owners of this country and of the Fidesz party book, who is one of the main public-law dignitaries, said practically half of the country that they do not belong to us. To this day, I haven't heard you apologize to anyone. [[L. Simon László: Apologize too!]] No one, most of all, from the people who were hurt. Not from us, we're used to this: traitors, Soros-tenants, we're everything. But there are people behind us and there are people next to us, and I think it was terribly outrageous and offensive, the way they treated half the country during the pandemic. Dear Secretary of State, Unlike many, I know that those who are not physically in this Chamber can be here with us, because precisely because of the epidemic threat, the request was that the person who is talking in the Chamber, and the person who is coming after him, the others, can follow even from the faction offices how the procession is. So it's completely unnecessary to distribute people, and I'm not going to assign you now that there are only three of you in this Chamber. Maybe the whole Fidesz and KDNP are sitting in the faction office, following this debate at quarter to nine. By the way, if I were where you are, these debates would not be at this time, simply because Hungary and Hungarian citizens have the right to hear these arguments. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Sir, Don't yell at me while I'm talking, be nice, control yourself. And I think that citizens should have the right to hear all arguments and arguments. Dear Secretary of State, You said this wasn't a dictatorship. It may not be a dictatorship, but let us not like opposition content, because we are being fired, let us not talk to opposition politicians on the open street, because they make it impossible for us, if we are politicians, then we tolerate being discredited in our own forints, and they didn't ask us, and if we publish a statement, then MTI says they won't give up, and if we post a government critical content, the police will take us away. All of this has happened in the last few weeks, in the last few months. Cops took facebooking citizens? Was there such a thing in Hungary? ! Answer me! Now yell! Was. Not one, but in several cases. So, exactly, where are we now, Secretary of State? The thing is, even the title of this law is a lie. It is not Parliament that proclaims the emergency and it is not Parliament that withdraws the special legal order. It's the government's exclusive jurisdiction. It's absurd. You have now done the barn twist that you expect the Parliament to submit to the government, to ask the government to put an end to the emergency that only the government can order and only the government can put an end to it. It's a wooden iron ring. This whole hocus-pocus board game is about you desecrating the opposition, putting opposition voters in such a situation in the midst of the epidemic threat, that we have to keep listening to the fight and the debate and your political ambitions, when we have a bigger problem than what stomach pain you have. Don't they have the power? What more do you want, really? What do you want? They've got two thirds. They could have done that your prime minister and the entire government would have said that in view of this epidemic threat, we would have put aside the antagonistic differences with the opposition, all the negative emotions, and they would have focused a little bit on what they were doing. Maybe there would have been a family allowance for the families. Double! I understand that the Prime Minister has been approached from your home so that, come on, families can get a double family allowance. But Viktor Orbán said that he does not like to distribute money, because he is not a supporter, but a work-based society. Work fund? Then that's where the slave labor fund comes from! But we're gonna talk about this. They could've done something to give the social workers money. But they can't even be referred to in the disease control fund. I realized this when I asked the Hungarian Parliament with Ákos Hadházy and Szabó Szabolcs to show solidarity with the Hungarian people in such a way that everything above our basic salary is given to this fund and given to health and social workers as a result. [[20.50]] You voted against that. You have legally refused to show solidarity with Hungarian citizens. It was the same way, Butcher Lawrence. We have tabled that the Butchers should pay, the people who have been sucking this country's blood for ten years now, your oligarchs will continue to talk about it, all we've asked for is for them to take part in public cargo. They voted the lex Butcher as usual! And then all of a sudden, they started talking about how Fidesz and KDNP don't like retroactive legislation. Really? Mr. Secretary, how many times have you applied retroactive legislation in the last ten years? Press the button, cancel the lesson, please. And then I'm going to go on with the legal absurdity on which this whole bill and this joint debate are based, and I'm telling you, that's the only function they have here, so that they can jump a little bit more on the opposition. However, there is a very simple thing, and I say this to those who may still be watching mediation here - Parliament does not play a role in maintaining, extending or authorising regulation governance under the Fundamental Law, but in exercising ex post control. Our job here would have been to extend it every 15 days if you had issued a decree. Dear Secretary of State, Was there any reason why this Parliament would extend the regulations every 15 days? Nothing at all, because the Hungarian Parliament met all along. I myself made the suggestion that we didn't know, and there's no way to predict what's going to happen to the epidemic situation here, and besides, the 21st century. We are in the century to see how good it would be to have a digital parliament. I also submitted to Gergely Gulyás the proposal that would have amended the Fundamental Law; he said that he wanted it because he thought it would require a fundamental amendment. I put it in, it was voted out; not me, Gergely Gulyás. Why? Because they didn't want a digital parliament. You wanted to be able to govern by decree, while the Parliament is running smoothly. So, what happened here in Parliament while Viktor Orbán announced to the world that he was due at 6:00 a.m., then he started working? By the way, I expect a prime minister not only in an epidemic situation, and by the way, the whole country is about to rise at these times. But let's see what scandalous laws have been made here. You, who are about to launch a national consultation, have forgotten to consult, for example, cultural public workers before they were able to enforce the law and have been deprived of their status as civil servants. That's what happened. It was the same night or night, it happened here in the Hungarian Parliament, while the world was fighting the virus. The slave law 2.0, the overtime law, is so appealing to you that you now want to maintain it not only in cases where it was introduced during the epidemic, but whenever Minister Palkovic believes that there is job creation and that there is a priority in the national economy, people could be dissembled on the basis of your idea of a slave labour-based society. What about borrowing the Budapest-Belgrád railway and encryption? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It is not in this law!]] That's exactly what happened, and you guys are the ones who took the blame for this, because I think it's amazing, and while Hungary and the whole world are fighting the virus, you've entered into a very intimate relationship with the Chinese Communist Party. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And they decided to show us the data if the Chinese Communist Party thought so. Don't laugh, gentlemen. Don't laugh. That's not so funny, 'cause my kids and my grandkids might still be moaning about this debt slavery they made up. And there's the written question. Do you know what Chinese do? In many cases, if a country cannot pay, it will be pawned that it will be the consideration for the unpaid portion. What has Hungary pawned? If you want, answer it, or if you know the answer. If not, my written question is inside. Disarmament of local governments. Yes, while the Hungarian government forgot to provide sufficient protective equipment, in many places the municipalities had to reach into their pockets, so that social workers who visit families in need, for example, should have masks, protective equipment, gloves and alcohol hand sanitizers. You destroyed these municipalities here during the epidemic. For example, the city of God could talk a lot about it. Otherwise, the entire opposition turned to the Constitutional Court, and we will not stop, because it is amazing that you, in contrast with practically everything, the Basic Law and all common sense, began to weaken the municipalities when the greatest burden was on them. And we need to talk about the Kasler plan. You owe a lot of people; I don't know exactly how many people, but I will soon find out, because I keep counting the situation from the data that is available. We all know what a scandalous setback Minister Kasler has done. I asked for the order that you ordered. According to the public data available from the NEAK database, from February to April, the utilisation rate fell by half in Hungarian hospitals. You guys are full of shit about only having to send two percent of the patients home. By the way, this only two percent is how many people, how many human fates? In this case, behind the percentages, I know you never see man, but I see him, and as a statistic, we have always learned and testified that every percentage and every single statistic has human destiny. But in any case, that's two percent, that's not two percent, because the 60 percent you ordered me to do now I've figured out what you've done: it's ordered at institutional level, regardless of whether 30 or 90 percent of the beds in that particular hospital are occupied. Then, about mid-April, they realized that they were doing a very, very bad thing, and they took it up to the county level, and then it was possible to make better compensation between the institutions, but by then the beds were cleared. You know, Mr. Secretary of State and honourable Members in the pro-government ranks, both of you who are here, you know, a man's heart was broken as we received letters that cancer treatments stopped; that a lady sees 20 percent with one eye, not even as much with the other, and doesn't know how many letters he'll write to me because he doesn't get the infusion treatment, and he's losing his vision; that with oesophageal rupture, the man doesn't go to the hospital because they closed the door, they said there's no capacity for this now. These people's fate is here now that I'm talking about it. Don't give me two percent. On the one hand, give me the data so that I can calculate it exactly for you, but I ask for the data and ask for forgiveness from every Hungarian person whose health you have endangered with the Kasler plan! The minister who claims to be the minister of health and education has become virtually invisible over the last few weeks and months. He used to come in for two minutes, hand us out and go out. He used to say that we were having fun when we told real stories about people in trouble. By the way, this minister has failed so much that you have outsourced the areas from under him, the education has gone to one of the ministers, the health care to Sándor Pintér; I do not know exactly what will happen there, Sándor Pintér will do with the Hungarian health issue, but I am very worried about it. In any case, we've been through this epidemic practically and it's not over yet that the country didn't have health management. There was an invisible minister here who sometimes pushed a secretary of state in his place, but basically he couldn't be consulted on anything. The slave law 2.0, which is also included in the current bill, which you want to extend to all sectors in a scandalous way, specifically means that we are here at 9:00 p.m. to give the Hungarian people a 12:00 a.m. day off in a month. That's what the law says. And you, who consult at national level, you've practically pushed the unions out of the picture with this bill, you don't even have to talk to them. We went on the streets for less than that a while ago, because then even the collective agreement protected people, now it won't be, and there won't be trade unions. What's this? Slave labour-based society. That's what you do. They betrayed the Hungarian people while they were supposed to protect us from the epidemic. It does not help to keep information of public interest confidential. We can make 30 out of 15 days, 45 out of 30, 90 out of 30; we will have access to these data, and we will also confront your voters with what they are doing while they have a completely different task in the area of governance. [[21.00]] Butcher Lőrinc thanks you, he's having a good time. We see that he has received a minimum of 130 billion, 14 hotels with money; Budapest-Belgrád railway; Mátrai Erőmű. He got a lot of money. And that's my last thought: what did health and social workers get as a bonus? So far, zero forints. Now, that's your performance. You know who should apologize? You are from these people, and I thank you very much for your work.
u2020-06-03-184	Thank you very much. We will continue with the speeches by the speakers announced in advance. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, independent, please.
u2020-06-03-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, They always object from the pro-government side to the fact that when we talked about the unnecessary nature of the delegation law, why we didn't tell them the basics of the legislation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that when there was a debate on the delegation law, I made a detailed list of all the pieces of legislation that fully demonstrated that it was unnecessary to make any laws here. You know perfectly well that in the event of an emergency or an epidemic, the consultants of creative think tanks, Viktor Orbán, have come up with a completely unnecessary law; of course, there are also some lawyers in the opposition who say that I should at least not give up my credibility and that they will say that this is not necessary at all, but that society can be intimidated by pro-government media without the opposition wanting to solve the emergency. You know, Mr State Secretary, Deputy Minister and fellow Members on the pro-government side, that this is not true. You know we have a disaster law. We have a government decree on disaster control. We have a health law, we have a welfare minister's decree, which tells us exactly, point by point, task by task, responsible for what to do. When the WHO declared the epidemic, it was included in the Health Act, you know exactly when it was 56. Paragraph 5 of the WHO states that the law must be applied on the basis of an epidemic declared by the WHO when it comes to pandemics. You know perfectly well that at that time, all you should have done was the head of the disaster management organisation and the national chief of staff appointed by the Minister for Health. The Fundamental Law states precisely that an emergency is being declared by the government, and the government is making the regulations necessary to protect the epidemiological community, on the one hand, and on the other, all the secondary problems, in this case economic issues, education issues, the necessary changes to the health care system, and we could list what had to be done. The government did its government's work with the regulation, and for this regulation the delegation law was not necessary at all, and it is true that, after the Parliament had worked all along, the measures that might have expired in 15 days would have been perfectly supportive of the government in a short debate. The reason why you have applied a legal framework in order not to have to come here every 15 days is because a lot of regulations have been made that are not related to the epidemic situation, and it was not necessary to blame the epidemic situation on the need to regulate the subject at present, and in this way you have been given unlimited authority on your own, because the governing parties and our country have voted to do a lot of other things, businesses, provisions that the dog does not vote for in peace time, while doing so. You know as well as I do, the Emergency Protection Act is 44. § (ca) states that a human epidemic is an emergency. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 states that extraordinary measures must be taken by means of a government decree. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 states that a ministerial commissioner may be appointed if the level of emergency so requires. For example, what I don't understand is why a ministerial commissioner has been appointed, which is written in his own law. Then: the head of the disaster management body determines the beginning and end of the disaster situation. So it's not Parliament that tells us when the emergency is beginning, it's the end, it's not the government, it's the head of that disaster management body that tells us when the start is and when the end is, who's in charge. Then there's the health code. I was just quoting 56. Paragraph 5 of this Article. There's still 74. §, which expressly provides that the medical administration determines the presence of an epidemic risk, in this case the chief of staff. But then there's 18/1998. Minister of Social Welfare decree, which the president of the Defense Committee said does not need to be applied to the epidemic threat. Since then, I have received letters from several State Secretarys who also referred to this rule. This one's got two. § (1) states that the minister shall carry out the defence and carry out his duties in the event of a human epidemic through the chief medical officer. So: Fundamental law, the laws I have called for exactly, would have answered everything, item by item. And to answer the question of my fellow Member of Bajkai: if he hadn't been able to read the legislation a long time ago under our administration, the head of the disaster management body, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Staff and the Minister of Health, we would have done it to him: darling, that's your job! And everyone would have defended themselves the same way. Do not say that only Fidesz can solve a problem in Hungary! That's not true! There is so much legislation in this country that it no longer serves law enforcement but serves legal uncertainty. The masses of people have no idea what all applies to their own conditions of life, and when there is a situation here, when we can then apply our rich legal material, because everything is written down, so there is nothing missing in the world, then rather than applying what we already have, they start to legislate. So that was the problem. Forgive us, but don't look so stupid at us as to say that the government has to submit a bill in order for Parliament to tell the government that something has to end or do something. Excuse me, I hope you'll never teach me that at law school. The government is the government, he has the means to govern, and Parliament is a legislator. Well, hold on a second. If Parliament has at some point established these rules, according to which you must proceed, then don't come here and let Parliament tell you what to do. Well, hold on a second. By the way, I believe that this serves their own government agenda well, but don't do the one thing that keeps on looking at both Members and people who are interested in how this situation is resolved. There are, of course, the second ones in this, i.e. in the 10748 proposal, which are saving, because indeed, the moratorium was favourable for people in the credit crisis, but I must say again that implementations were carried on. So people who have already lost 50 percent of their minimum wage and even lost their jobs had to defend themselves, teach the child at home, care for the elderly family members, or even get sick in the family, and that period was even worse, and forgive me, the government had no answer to that. It is encouraging, for example, to say that rooms not intended for housing cannot be cancelled for a certain period by the landlord. I suppose you've thought that many small businesses use the room in which they do their economic activity on the basis of this kind of relationship, and that now the landlord doesn't deprive them of the location of the business, so it's okay and it's saving. But what about the people who lost their jobs and their own private apartments they rent, they quit? Aren't those people important? Once you look at this system of rules, discrimination between people is once again the greatest quality. [[21.10]] It seems like the most important thing, once again, is that one should have something, the other shouldn't have something. The last ten years have always been about confronting social groups, and that is the case now. And excuse me, but I'd prefer to protect the little people whose financial resources and relationships do not give them the opportunity to manage themselves in such a situation and to survive easily. This is when they have to carry the most focus, give, broadcast, because today they are the ones who need the help of the government most. Strong companies have many opportunities to manage themselves with their money, their relationships, their existing resources. I just want to give you an example. What happened, didn't it? Car companies are closed. Of course, there was a great deal of panic, Lord God, they provide most of our GDP, their economic strength, the mass of their workers and the rest. And what did the Audi factory do? 'Cause I watched that in person. He didn't say when he opened, he said he was closing. They called the world's best epidemiological experts and gave them two weeks to turn every job into an epidemiologically safe place. It was designed in three days, executed in ten days, and on the fifteenth day, the factory began to work. Each job has become epidemiologically safe, and a piece of worker in the Audi has not become a coronal virus. What did you prove? That a strong organizational system has all the potential to produce in such an emergency. But a little restaurant or a little buffet that had to be shut down because people couldn't go in there, what's he doing? It can't use your resources to use such incredibly high and expensive solutions to counter your emergency so that you can continue your business. So what happened? The Audi did it, and the other car companies opened from week to week; they did nothing but take over the technology. So this proves that we do not need to support the strong with that kind of force. Then it is a question of defence; well, don't be mad at me, it is written in the disaster protection law exactly how the army can be used at a time like this! It is perfectly written out that it has a helping role, it is perfectly described how the head of the body responsible for disaster management uses the assistance of the military, what it can use, how it should be done, and how it should contribute. It's even about where the source, the funding, is coming from. By the way, I'm just saying, and I'm surprised that there was a bill amending the budget here today, for example, and he forgot to present it so much that, by the way, the disaster protection law also includes what to do with the budget, so that we can ensure the source, if there wasn't enough for what was planned, how to replace it. You don't have to change any laws in the world, you don't have to change the budget law, you forgot to talk about it when you were here today. So I would just like to say with great respect that, after Hungary's rich legislation perfectly answered all of the questions in the human epidemic, and who has what to do, it was completely unnecessary to carry out all the protections needed for this, with terrible, large, all sorts of, absolutely regulatory governance, or with the government's activities itself. I believe that a government is untrained in this, that all governments in the world have been untrained in this, perhaps not the government of tsunamis, because they have had, if not this type of disaster, but a disaster that has affected many people, but everyone still has a way to sit down for one day and look at what they have to do. There's an incredibly large amount of professionals in the government who are available 24 hours a day, if someone doesn't know the answer to a question, they can get it from them. We shouldn't have brought this political pamphlet here, burdened people with the epidemic, even with this legislative circus and a legislative sad game, because I think it's a sad game, but we should have simply applied all the rules that you and the other governments have made over the last few decades. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-186	Thank you very much. Now the minutes of Congressman Mesterházy, first two. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-187	There'll be more, but who's counting, Mr. President? Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, László Kács did not want to press for two minutes, so he gave me the authority to apologize to Congressman Nacsa on his behalf and to stone him. He is very ashamed that he has not concentrated with every nerve on every precious and respected word of the Member; he does not want to make that mistake again in any way, so he will pay much more serious attention to the sentences of Congressman Nacsa in the future. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Nevertheless, I think that this should be the biggest mistake Mr Cook has made in this Parliament. The second thing I would like to talk about is what Mr Secretary of State said: namely, he said that Parliament had a controlling role, and for a moment I almost believed that he meant it, but then when he continued that we, as opposition representatives, could not prevent your action, I began to think. I don't know, you know, with no vote, you're the only ones who can stop the government, the opposition can't, because they have two-thirds. So it's really a joke that you guys here always pretend that this Parliament has a controlling role. I understand this rhetorically, that you like to play with it, but basically, Viktor Orbán tells you what to do and you vote for it. So, in fact, this Parliament does not have this kind of control role, and it was clear from this law, too, that the powers are with Viktor Orbán, and it is also apparent that you have decided that this Parliament will work because of the criticisms. Basically, you wanted to eliminate the Hungarian Parliament with this legislation, but then you didn't have the guts to do it completely. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-03-188	Thank you very much. We now have Members who would like to speak in a normal manner; first, Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There will be many good things!]] Don't complain, Congressman, but you're sitting in government benches, so you have a lot more power to influence these decisions. All we've got left is an opinion here at 9:20 p.m. tonight. Perhaps you will allow me to do this, because I have been paying attention to the fact that you have been speaking as if this law were very important and that it would be decisive for Hungary and for the lives of Hungarian people. Well, then, what's wrong, Congressman, is that someone thinks they're going to comment on this debate and give their opinion on what a secretary of state or you or any of your fellow Members have said? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's right! That's right.]] This is all we have left to come here and give our opinion. That's our chance, and it's getting more and more limited now. I was a bit under the impression of Mr Secretary of State's comment that we are all actually stupid here, and no expert can see anything from the opposition side, all politicians are talking nonsense, everyone is always misinterpreting, misinterpreting, or lying; now, you can choose your own. We don't understand anything right, and you always interpret everything perfectly, do it perfectly, and everything works fantastically. I think, honourable Member, that a number of proposals and critical comments have been made here in relation to the comments, which I think would be quite certain, it is enough to refer only to the legal interpretation and reasoning of Andrea Varga-Damm. [[L. Simon László intervenes.]] Congressman, press a button, and we can talk about it. I'm guessing you didn't come in on this subject. You came in on the next one. [[L. Simon László: Is that...]] Just a little more patience, and I'll get right to that, and then we can argue there. So in Hungarian, what you really seem to think is that you are infallible, but let's take a look at it. We've already talked about the blacksmith of success, Minister Kasler. If I understood correctly, the Minister would have had the purchase of medical supplies; this was taken out of his hands, because this was done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, led by Péter Szijjártó. Then they took away from him a lot of the driver's licenses that were transferred to the Ministry led by Mr. Palkovic, and now we hear that the Ministry of Interior, led by Sándor Pintér, was already prominent in logistics, and now Sándor Pintér has received additional tasks, not to mention that the Ministry of Defence has appointed hospital commanders. [[21.20]] Then what I do not understand is that a minister whose main task was to deal with these issues was to manage four other ministers. Well, what if it's not a success? Definitely. It is clear that the Ministry's leadership is the smith of success, they did their job fantastically, which shows that four other ministers had to help out. The other is that you keep talking about apologies. There are several ways to approach this. However, I would approach it as if the health system had not been continuously drained in the last ten years, if it had not been taken from education, if it had indeed been treated as a priority, or as a strategic sector, let us say at least as much as the Budapest-Belgrád railway line or the enrichment of Lőrinc Mészáros; so if it had been so strategic, let us say, the occupation of education or the strengthening of the social network, then maybe this crisis, this emergency, could have been better or better prepared by Hungary. And I would also like to say a sentence, a thought, because they said that no one here abused any license; so let me mention three of their municipal leaders, Komlo, Szekszárd and Nagykanizsa. Here, even if I understood correctly, Minister Gulyás raised his eyebrows or waved his head that the authority they were given was not to live with it as they lived with it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] So I think that there are many things in this regard that everyone has a duty and duty, or an obligation to apologize, but I think that you, too, have something to apologize for and apologize for in order to govern the past few years. It is also quite clear that your intention is not to cooperate, but rather to continuously share Hungarian society. This is also the case in these matters, and this is certainly what happens tomorrow in connection with a Trianon memorial. And just to make Congressman Nacsa happy, I am not taking the rest of the time I have left. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-03-190	Thank you very much. Congressman István Bajkai, Fidesz! [[Dr. István Bajkai: I have to go get my laptop. Dr. István Bajkai is leaving the Chamber.]] I understand that I gave him the floor. [[Noise.]] When I give the word, it doesn't mean that someone should step out, but that they should stand up and talk. [[Interjection: He's coming! Dr. István Bajkai returns to the Chamber.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Today, at this late hour, I tried to cut myself short in my two-minute speech and briefly express the thoughts that I think are important. Our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm and, in fact, almost everyone's speech showed a common phenomenon, namely that the year 2020 was the year XII. The adoption of this legislation was not necessary. Our colleague Andrea Varga-Damm explained that the current legislation in force has given us all the answers and has given us all the opportunity to deal with the health emergency. First of all, we can ask the question as a lawyer, although I do not now go into formal and substantive matters and the nature of the sources of substantive and formal law, but we have to ask the question: if a government decree can regulate specific living conditions, it affects fundamental rights, then how, in the case of the example made by Andrea Varga-Damm, let us say, by a decree of the Minister of Interior, can replace a government decree. We can't, we know, according to the rules of the jurisdictional hierarchy. How could all the legislation that affected fundamental rights have been passed? He was not suspended, as many have explained today, but he was touched. This required, among other things, the appropriate mandate and the right freedom for the government to make decisions on the virus situation. Here he is. It is an uncontested fact that the government has effectively combated the virus situation, and thanks to the burden-bearing capacity, patience, discipline of the Hungarian people and to all those who have fulfilled their task in the health emergency, they have literally stared at the virus, risking their lives many times, let us not forget this. In fact, based on the statistics that can be compared around the world, we have done this first extremely important phase of the fight against the virus with measurable numbers and measurable data very effectively. However, the opposition is trying to adjust, or rather, to reduce, in hindsight, the risk, significance and all that this has carried. For example, in March of this year, no one knew what the course of this virus would be, who would be affected, what its extent would be, what resources would be needed. Everyone could have predicted, but no one could know for sure. I think that, in hindsight, I see the honourable opposition representatives as showing what would have happened or what would have happened, in fact, in Poirot's deductive way. Now they know the result, or at least they see the significance of it, they see the major changes, they now predict what should have been done differently, let's say, after March. I have to say, unfortunately or not, rather, let us be clear and clear, as has been said in the expozee, I have to say in my own comment that the opposition was unfortunately interested in trying to prove that the government did not do its job, trying to prove in Hungary, in Brussels and everywhere that the dictatorship was actually formed here, because the government has unlimited authority. He was trying to prove that he was trying to create tension and literally how the virus situation, this terrible disease, transforms Hungarian statehood, transforms the Hungarian legal system, of course, according to the usual principles, which have now been heard for a long time, namely: dictatorship is being built in Hungary. I think that the excuse or the observation that the government itself is submitting this bill, which Mr State Secretary has also expressed, is not contrary to any legislation, and I think that it is a faithful expression of the government's commitment to carrying out its duties, and if the government is submitting it, it is a good example that when this legislation establishing this special legal order does not exist, it itself makes a proposal. I think that this is an exemplary initiative, an exemplary procedure on the part of the government. In addition to the numerous debates that have taken place here about the fact that this law is indeed misleading, I do not want to repeat others, but it is still about the former and the 53rd. As opposed to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, this Act, as amended by Article XII of the year 2020 Law gave me the option, in fact it was a legislation governing scope or scope, which had to be regulated or this situation had to be regulated. Once again, no one could have predicted the end of this epidemic, this virus situation. It's not over, we have to say, even now, the effects of this are virtually impenetrable, and it's impossible to see how the virus situation will develop. The approach that the government has, in a way, done wrong with your expression is a matter of fact, the fight against the virus situation, the preservation of the health of Hungarian people against the virus situation is a matter of fact, and this cannot be disputed. The contrast is that while opposition-led municipalities have done their job right, two examples of this are allowed. On 21 March, the famous Mayor of Erzsébetváros, Péter Niedermüller published on Facebook that the municipality could not serve the population that weekend, with the municipality taking over self-government with a HUF 10.5 billion plus. [[21.30]] András Pikó, mayor of Józsefváros, dismissed the colleague who did not undertake the overwork. Csaba Czeglédy, who has now experienced the depths of economic law, and who is supported by a criminal conviction, also receives extraordinary contracts in Elizabeth City. Well, that's what it's really all about, that's what it's like to describe it, and I think it's the attitude of the Balliberal authorities to the crisis or, more specifically, to the health emergency. I would like to reiterate that, on the one hand, the bill that we have just tabled is in line with what we have actually said and previously agreed that this extraordinary legal order will continue to be necessary for as long as there is a health emergency. This legislation, I could say, is extremely restrictive, because it has actually resulted in exceptional stability compared to transitional legislation and compared to transitional provisions. There is no doubt that the vast majority of Hungarians and I think that we will all support this, even if the honourable Balliberal Members and the opposition will argue that they felt that the Hungarian government was driving the country's ship with safe hands, with good and firm moves. This proves that there is a governance in Hungary that not only meant to take action at the first moment on the health emergency, but also to immediately create jobs, to preserve jobs, to restart the economy, and to focus on all the issues that I think are necessary to enable us to live in this country safely and in order to maintain our health. I think that this bill is nothing more than, at present, and so do we.This is how the changes in living conditions used to be taught, and the changes in living conditions need to be adapted to the current legislation. In fact, if we consider this old, almost Roman, legal principle in favour of another important principle of progress, then that is what this House is actually doing now when it adopts this legislation. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-192	Thank you very much. There will now be two-minute speeches, the first to be heard by MEP László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We had a bit of a debate, but that's understandable in his fifth hour. Looking at the pulpit, I thought it was time to add a little color to the speeches, so let me have a little colorful, fun element in it. I have been listening to the debate from the very beginning, and I would like to draw attention to some contradictions, we can say, to an amusing contradiction. At the very beginning, Mr Balázs Orbán referred to the Venice Commission as, if you will, an approval seal for the legislation of the government. Well, there's been some interesting changes. Looks like they buried the hatchet with the Venice Commission. If I remember correctly, this Venice Commission was 2018. CHAPTER VI On the 22nd of the month, which was said to have Soros' men everywhere. So, interesting, that's what you get your confirmation from, and it's interesting when you adjust to a place you've been told about Soros agents and Soros's men. But I'll tell you another thing: you said that the opposition has always made the same accusations over the last ten years, monomaniacally telling us what's going on. Well, if you have to listen to something monomaniacally, it's what's been going on for the last ten years. So you are constantly suggesting what left-wing governments have done in the ten years before this ten-year period, so you have to slowly listen to 20 years of monomania. The other is that the opposition is celebrating itself in Facebook post, which is what it is. Well, I don't know who recovered from Facebook during the coronal virus epidemic. So the reason we remember is that Viktor Orbán almost managed to break Hungarian Facebook with his mute speech, in fact, Viktor Orbán got to the point where he started the whole cucumber season on Facebook. So with all the Facebook charges about how much people use, I think you should be a little more careful. I only spoke out to add a little color to this debate and to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, during such a long debate, it is very easy to make mistakes and even to get into contradictions. I wish everyone a good debate. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-194	On behalf of the government, State Secretary Orbán, please.
u2020-06-03-195	Thank you for the floor. I would only respond briefly, in two minutes. One is, Member, the fact that the Prime Minister of Hungary regularly informs citizens about the epidemiological defence through social media, and that opposition representatives, hystericalally, screaming dictatorship through social media are constantly besieging the government during the period of defence, these are two completely different things. I think one is okay, the other is... the opposition representatives, their souls are about to do so, but the first is particularly important for the functioning of a normal government. So I would suggest that this exercise, which the Prime Minister is following, should not be attacked uniformly. This is how all countries should operate, and every prime minister in such a situation has an obligation to provide information, which we comply with. The other is, unfortunately, that there is no contradiction in the context of the Venice Commission. The debate is there, I'm one of them, we're here in the government, we're having a personal debate with the Venice Commission, and what you've said about what we say about the Venice Commission is true. But the fact is, even the Venice Commission has said that, in the context of extraordinary legal regulations, the situation in Europe is that as many houses as there are so many customs. Interestingly, he pointed out the guarantee elements in which the Hungarian Fundamental Law performs specifically well. We should be proud of that, and then we shouldn't be doing what we're doing to bring this internal political conflict that you're generating to the international arena. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-196	Thank you. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2020-06-03-197	Thank you very much. Following the words of the Secretary of State, I look forward to the fact that every country really follows the example of the Prime Minister, and in the spirit of the epidemiological defence, we can get acquainted with the leavened cucumbers of the Prime Minister of other countries or with other kinds of popular pickles. I think a little more seriously, that the difference between... I understand that you are sitting in the government because, according to you, what the Prime Minister is saying is pure truth, what the opposition is, and that is purely false, obviously, is not exactly how I see it. There is one big difference: those who agree with the Prime Minister will not be taken at dawn because of their Facebook post. That's a big difference, and it's not exactly a rule of law. We have been accused of saying the same thing for ten years about the abolition of the rule of law and the stealthy introduction of dictatorship. That is not so, Mr Secretary, it is not so, fellow Members. We always say different, because you always have new and new ideas. So they're progressing gradually in this thing, there's always something, something new always comes along. What has just come up is two things, and I would like to respond very briefly to them. One of them is that you say that the Parliament is now withdrawing the delegation law, but that is not the case. The extraordinary legal order is withdrawn by the government, and the authorisation law on the corona virus states that it is valid only in times of emergency. That is why we say that the legislation that is in it is unnecessary, because if the government really eliminates the emergency, then the whole legislation will be out of order and will become ineffective, it will make no sense. It is not the problem, Mr Bajkai, that the government is submitting it, but that the government does not need it, because if it were to eliminate the emergency, the law would automatically be repealed. I would like to avoid the appearance that both of us are uncomfortable with the fact that I agree with the Secretary of State on constitutional issues. The fact is that the Constitution and the Disaster Protection Act are balancing it. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] on what grounds to derogate from the normal legal order and to undermine the rights of citizens. You're kicking it out of this bill, that's the problem.
u2020-06-03-198	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP.
u2020-06-03-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Mesterházy, for his speech, and I also felt from the ironic words that Mr Cook had admitted that he was wrong. I love the debate, Mr President, and my comment was not at all about not arguing. You can't give me a moment in the last two years when I would have backed away from the debates here or left, or I wouldn't have taken up the debate on any subject. I think it's important, and that's why this topic is important. The accusations that say Bernadett Szél said that he had come to the evening on purpose: he was not here at the beginning of the debate, he did not attend the first few hours, so obviously he does not know that it started long before 4:00, in the middle of the afternoon, only in view of the seriousness and importance of the subject, so he is obviously not intentionally placed in the evening. [[21.40]] There is no contradiction with Mr Luke's remark on the Venice Commission. Here we also gave the opinion of the Venice Commission. That doesn't mean that we're bosom friends or that our earlier sentences wouldn't hold up. We also wanted you and asked you to put your seal on it and vote for this law. We said we could do it without it, but we even asked you for it. I don't see any contradiction in that. Congressman Mesterházy was concerned about the legislation or practice of a government-party government in an emergency. I am simply asking you not to be a party to this concern, but to be concerned about the capital and the left-wing authorities, where there have been a lot of abusive acts in the last two or three months, because of the regulations that have not been related to the corona virus epidemic, from the felling of trees to the Czeglédy Csaba treaties, to worry at the same pace or in the same tone, please, because that is fair. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-200	Thank you. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2020-06-03-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Indeed, I must say that Congressman Nacsa really is always involved in these debates, and I thank him for that. Still, I'd let you worry about these matters. I worry about our problems, and you worry about the issues that Fidesz has to deal with, and then everyone does their job. The other is that he also mentioned the treaties, my fellow Member. Only because you said so, and it was mentioned by my fellow Member from Bajkai that Mr Czeglédy's contract or someone else's. Just for the record: Lőrinc Mészáros received HUF 18 billion not so long ago, while he took 11 billion as a dividend from his company. I think that our great national solidarity could have included not asking the state for more money, but perhaps taking out a little less dividends this year and replacing or replacing the resources that are important to its various hotel businesses. I don't think there's any comparison between that and any local law contract. With regard to Facebook, I would only like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a three-letter institution, or perhaps a multi-letter, which shortens the Hungarian public service television and the Hungarian Radio Kossuth, which is also a public service. So the Prime Minister doesn't need to communicate through Facebook. Public service television has such a public service mission, and it certainly reaches more people than Facebook, but it can complement each other. But not just to be critical, and not to finish my two-minute comment, but also to be right, Mr Bajkai, that it is always easier to see something afterwards than it is in advance. I completely agree with you that, in hindsight, everything seems a little easier than when we were faced with this problem, because we did not know how much damage and tragedy this virus would cause in Hungary. Allow me to say that you are right about this, that this may affect your opinions. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-202	Thank you. Congressman István Bajkai, Fidesz.
u2020-06-03-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Just in short, because we really have been able to tell you almost everything, thank God. It has been said several times that those who are more affluent may have sacrificed or sacrificed for the community. In his speech, Mr Bell was actually trying to list his own virtues or the virtues of his fellow Members. I think giving is a duty for everyone, for every civilized person who can do it. At the same time, it is a kind of moral standard, a moral rule, that one does not typically talk about himself or put himself first in such matters. I am no one's spokesperson, so to speak, that those of us who are more affluent here today, I will not intentionally repeat them, you may know that they are engaged in significant donations and charitable activities. I think that when you talk about what our moral standards and our moral duty are in a difficult situation, then one of the most important things for us, here in Parliament, is to make good laws, to try to do the best with faith and with modest knowledge given to us, in order to survive this country and, in this case, to fight the virus. I don't think we have to say any more than that. The facts so far show that the government and the KDNP-Fidesz Group have made good decisions. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-204	Thank you. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak. Your body language tells you the answer. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Just a few things that I didn't have time for in my previous speech. On the one hand, I would like to thank everyone for their constructive and supportive contributions and for their constructive and critical contributions. I'd like to respond to a few of them in this regard. So let us state once again, and perhaps this should be one of the main ideas of closing this debate, that we can say that we are lucky and that we must express our sympathy to those from whom the protection against the epidemic has been a serious commitment and sacrifice, and that we are fortunate to be able to manage the first stage of the fight against the epidemic so well. I am pleased to hear what Mr Mesterházy said at the end, because the fact remains that when we began to debate this issue in a very different tone here in March, no one knew what was coming. It is quite clear, and opposition speakers have been more on the government's side that the fight against the epidemic has been successful. The opposition criticisms that say that this law on the protection of Crown Virus was not necessary do not, in a legal sense, stand up to them. Not everyone was sitting in this room, and I started my expose by listing those provisions, those decisions, not all of them, just a few of the most important ones that we couldn't have done without the Crown Virus Protection Act. So thank you to the Members who supported this proposal back then. I am pleased to be able to present on behalf of the Government a proposal which provides for the return of this special mandate in the legal order, if the Parliament votes. And it is also a category of historical fact that it was not possible to form a national unity. I was also in the multi-party negotiations, and I remember the situation in the exact opposite way as Mr Keresztes and Mrs Szabó, because at the first moments there it seemed that the opposition was constructive in relation to this issue. Then something changed. Moreover, the problems that opposition representatives have brought to these negotiations were not the most important problems that were then brought to the public. The requirements for necessity and proportionality have been explicitly laid down on the basis of the request of opposition representatives, even the criminal case concerning the spread of rumors has been modified on the basis of the request of opposition representatives. Then something happened, and at the last minute, after all, they chose the strategy of political resistance, not the idea of national unity. Three more things. On the one hand, the municipalities. I think there were some of us who said that we consider the municipalities as part of our defense. Thank you to all municipalities that have undertaken these increased burdens. You have repeatedly accused us of attacking the municipalities. Well, the hell with them, we're trying to help them where we can. I wish to you that if you have an enemy, it will try to bleed you out as the civilian government has tried to bleed out the municipalities for the last ten years. We have often said, in addition to the fact that a very serious debt consolidation has taken place here, Minister of State Banai said that this re-production has not taken place since then, and that the amount of state aid made available to municipalities has increased steadily, year after year. In next year's budget, 116 percent of the budget for this year, more than HUF 850 billion will be allocated to local governments. This is a simple operation: the two budget laws must be drawn up and those lines should be compared, and then it is quite clear what the situation is. Moreover, local government's own revenues increased from around 500 billion to around 1000 billion without otherwise having to raise taxes. [[21.50]] So the situation of the municipalities is clearly stable, and in the same way as the government, as the banks, in the same way as the multinationals, as the members of the political class, they had to do their part with a minimum contribution, with a minimum share of their budget in the control of the coronal virus epidemic. Mr harvester mentioned indeed a politically neutral proposal on the expiry of the documents. I can inform you that I've had time to watch 88 here. We are talking about §2 and what I see there is that, in principle, we will maintain the validity of the documents for 180 days following the end of the emergency. Therefore, it is not the case that everyone must visit the document offices immediately when the emergency resolves. I think it's a good thing it's true, there's a little bit of philandering. The rule is 180 days, and there are shorter deadlines. But I think the current rule is something that can avoid tumors. I ask you to look again at the proposal in this regard, and if there is a difference of opinion and a constructive idea, then we are available. I would like to respond briefly to the rules on the court. I understand the criticism, but I would like to ask that the courts decide on this matter. That would be easy for me to say, but I understand that the courts aren't just a big conglomerate that thinks the same thing. Obviously, Mr Arató would also be able to put forward a judicial forum or a representative body that formulates an opinion, and I would also be able to say an organisation, a court leader, or a leader, which would give another opinion. I think that the principle to be followed here is to be decided by the courts and by the court leaders who are empowered to do so under the Fundamental Law. I think, as a general rule, we can fix it, and this is shown in the proposal that normal business should be restored as much as possible, that is the goal, but what worked in this special situation, like electronic administration, should not be thrown out of the window just because normal business has been restored. So what worked once, and there is practical experience for this, in an ex-post impact assessment, if that's the case, let's accept it and incorporate it into the system. Finally, I would also like to respond briefly to questions relating to the working time framework. What we are experiencing in connection with the coronal virus epidemic is the partial shutdown of the entire sectors of the economy. Economically, this has caused workers a serious problem. Otherwise, we could have considered it justified to stay at home from the point of view of disease control, but it is an unfortunate situation. On the part of most businesses involved in this proposal, there have also been many cases of the use of unpaid leave and even the use of a tool for group redundancies, which in no way serves the interests of workers and social security. Therefore, we have introduced this proposal precisely to avoid this situation and to enable the worker to receive wages even when he is not doing work during the shutdown of the coronal virus. This working time frame is not an unknown work organisation tool. Work is carried out in a special working order, not according to an equal working time schedule, but this does not mean that workers are entitled to conditions that are worse than the general working schedule, less entitlement. Daily, weekly rest periods, inter-work breaks or annual leave shall be determined by the provisions of the same law. That's Mt. its general rules must be respected both for the maximum working time and for the compulsory provision of rest periods. Moreover, it is not true in this new scheme that this would be a unilateral provision for employers to introduce. Here, too, we wanted to implement a special set of laws. On this basis, I think that, on the one hand, we should express our joy at the fact that this bill could have been put before this House. This bill, within the constitutional framework, is capable of abolishing the government's special mandate and is suitable for the Parliament to decide on transitional measures, which should remain with us even after the first phase of the coronal virus epidemic is closed, both in the spirit of preparing for the next stage and in the context of the protection of jobs and the creation of new jobs. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-03-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Now, since the trial of the law that has just been closed lasted five hours and eight minutes, I'm going to order a five-minute technical break. (Sunning: 21.56 till 22.02 p.m.) President: Dr. István Hiller Note: László Földi and Dr. László György Lukács)
u2020-06-03-207	Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. Act on State tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration and on the implementation of certain improvements and the amendment of certain laws in the context of the European Commission Decision SA.50768 on Hungary's Film Support Programme. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10736. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-208	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The proposal before us envisages a number of amendments to law. The first is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. Law. In this context, the following main amendments would be made. According to the amendment, the independent existence of the Historical Advisory Board will be terminated and its task will be integrated into the responsibilities of the National Architectural Planning Board. Currently there are nearly 15 thousand uniquely protected monument values in Hungary, which are classified in three categories of values: monument category I, monument category II. Category 1 and registered monument value as third category. The amendment differentiates individual monuments on the basis of a value-based approach, reducing the number of categories of monuments, instead of the current three categories, it will be two, but we would make a substantial difference in the size of professional and legal protection related to the two categories. Thus, state protection becomes more compatible with the individual, part-Community interest, unlike before, it does not make it difficult, for example, to renovate castles and mansions, while maintaining the historic protection as an important goal, in line with the needs of the present era. The aim of the proposal is also to reduce bureaucracy and simplify the regime for the protection of monuments. We believe that the protection of monuments is worth doing if we place the emphasis on value-based protection, and the proposal contains corresponding amendments. As I mentioned, there would be two categories instead of three so far, the highlighted monument category and the non-priority monument category. In the case of the category of monuments, the value inventory actually takes account of the protected values, which includes not only the building, but also its furnishings, its accessories and components in the civil sense, and the property in the location of the building. The historic environment of the specially protected building should also match the appearance of the protected building. Of course, they would also be in a public register and the State would be entitled to an automatic pre-emption right. As regards the currently second to third category historical values, we are ordering a value-setting expert inquiry under the proposal and maintaining their legal protection in force until it is completed. By doing so, we are going to be able to define in particular the names of monuments to which the state level of protection should actually cover. This part of the bill would therefore remove the current precarious situation. In parallel with the evaluation of value-setting experts, the renewal of the public-credit heritage register and the modernisation of the digital, space-informatics-based historical register would take place. Based on the evaluation of the value-setting expert, the Hungarian State would be entitled to a pre-emption right in respect of a non-priority monument if the Ministerial Decree declaring immunity specifically provided for. It is also important to point out that the proposal affects the protection of local architectural value of local authorities in so far as it provides an opportunity to increase the number of local protected buildings. If, on the basis of this peer review, or otherwise, national protection is terminated, it will be mandatory from now on to examine whether the conditions for local protection exist and the value of that building, garden or other place for the local community. In addition, there are other proposals on the bill before us, the starting point of which is that, as we see in the international space and here, there is a high demand for cultural goods in the market because of their economic and artistic value. Accordingly, the European Union should prohibit the introduction into the customs territory of the Union of cultural goods unlawfully exported from third countries and Member States should therefore be able to intervene in the event of suspicious consignments and take all necessary measures to seize those cultural goods. On this basis, the bill also includes a supplement to the provisions on the inheritance penalty. This is preceded by EU Regulation 2019/880, which regulates in this context. Member States should introduce effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions in the event of a breach of the provisions of the EU Regulation and ensure that uniform checks on the introduction into the customs territory of cultural goods apply. The authority of cultural goods should be able to impose the inheritance penalty on discretion in the event of a failure to inform auction houses and auction organisers in the event of a protected cultural asset. [[22.10]] In the auction notices, auction houses regularly fail to indicate the existence of protection in the case of protected cultural goods. This not only misleads customers and renders the required customer notification obligation irrelevant, but also makes it very difficult to track protected cultural goods. In this case, it is quite clear that protected owners, although they may act in good faith, are not aware of the special requirements for protected cultural goods, including in particular export restrictions from the territory of the country. Therefore, in the event of non-compliance with this obligation, the authority's sanctioning powers should be strengthened. The proposal includes XLIX of 2018 on state tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration. law, the amendment of the so-called Budapest Act, which would be accompanied by a new chapter under the proposal. This new chapter states that Citadel fort and its immediate surroundings, the also state-owned Citadel promenade, must be used, maintained, demonstrated and restored in the public interest. In our view, the development and restoration of Citadel fort and its surroundings is a priority public task. This bill gives restoration the highest importance and public interest status that was given to the reconstruction of the Buda Palace quarter at the end of 2018 and which allowed the national Hausmann programme to start, the first results of which are already visible. The bill clearly states that, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to emphasise only this way of exploiting Citadel, which can only be used in a way that is in the interest of the public and worthy of the protection of the world heritage. This in itself also excludes the possibility of exploitation that is not worthy of historic status. This is a key issue, as KSH estimates that the number of foreigners visiting Budapest for tourism purposes is talking about pre-coronal virus epidemic data at an estimated level of 4.5 million per year. If we add more tourists coming from the home country to Budapest, about one million people, then we can say that nearly three quarters of all tourists visiting the capital are visiting the Castle District and we can count on similar data for Citadel. The exclusive owner of Citadel property is the Hungarian State, the national property of national importance, under the National Property Act, and has been under world heritage protection since 1987. This historic and world heritage protection is complemented by the current bill, which sets out the directions for exploitation and renovation. The bill states that no change or construction ban can be imposed in the area, the Citadel Fortress building is currently dangerous, the concrete elements of the bunker building are not structurally stable, the walls of the building are damaged in many places. It would be necessary to complete the reconstruction of the property only in the interest of preserving the monument, but given, as I mentioned, Citadel is one of Budapest's number one tourist sites, therefore, the unworthy situations there, which cover both the built heritage and the green areas, must be abolished, the built heritage must be restored and the green areas renewed. These would be the provisions on the bill briefly, and if any questions arise, I will be at your disposal. I would also like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-03-209	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, L. Simon László, can speak his thoughts. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-210	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have faced a very serious dilemma in recent years, namely the fact that the legal protection of the Hungarian monument really provides sufficient guarantees to keep the monuments in the right state or to persuade their owners to keep them in the right condition, or to prevent them in some cases from actually renewing our monuments. This is an apparently strange question, but it follows that, unfortunately, in the last three decades since the change of regime, we have to face the fact that we can no longer simply blame socialism for the fact that the Hungarian monument has been destroyed to such an extent as we can see rural monuments and not a capital monument today. In fact, we have to say that although it was an immense barbarism, the way in which cooperative offices, schools, hospitals, social institutions and Soviet war warehouses were forced into rural castles, manor houses, see Gödöllő and we could continue, but at least the maintenance of these buildings was done because they were in it, they lived in it. It's possible, in fact, in many cases we've experienced that the marble drinkers have been thrown out of the stables, just think about, say, the Fortress of Komárom. It is possible that the beautiful frescoes were covered with tiles or oil-based paint, all of which were immeasurable destruction and barbarism, but at least the properties worked, at least they were forced to renovate the roof, prevent leaks, replace the broken tiles. Indeed, at the moment of the change of regime, we had an old desire and wish: the Soviets moved out of the castles, went home at last, in the case of a number of institutions the hospital and the social care institution ceased. We were hoping that these buildings would reclaim their old patina and serve the community. Many positive examples can be found, and even in the last decade, since we have been in government, the processes that have been welcome under the national castle and castle programme have been launched, and the national Hausmann programme also allows major renovations to take place in the Buda Castle, and even reconstruction works have been carried out. But overall, the image is alarming. How does all this relate to this bill? With the fact that, in the previous period, even when I was the State Secretary for Heritage Protection, we started the simplification work to review the Hungarian monument stock, to see that there was a real justification for protection in every case, or to create a legal environment in which it would be easier to renovate these properties, especially in the case of owners with a lack of capital and lack of resources. We do not think that this is only true, let us say, for properties recovered in some way in the compensation process, but also in the case of ecclesiastical and municipal property, we have often experienced that it is the lack of resources that prevents the professional renovation of the property. There is, of course, a remote problem. Let us not forget that if we look at rural castles and mansions more about this because it is one of my dearest areas and themes, then we can see that one of the most serious problems is that the kind of life form and the kind of property structure that has resulted in the creation and completion of these properties. Obviously, I am not crying back to a lost world, but I am just telling you that in order to say that in Eszterháza, such an immensely patinatic and beautiful castle could be created, such as the wonderful highlighted state monument dreamed and built by the Esterházy princes, it took a huge estate, it took culture, it took an attitude, it needed income, from which it could always be maintained, expanded, its park looked after. These estates aren't here anymore. And this is true not only in the case of large castles, state-owned monuments, but also in the case of small castles or mansions, to which, let us say, tens of thousands of acres of estates belonged, but only a few thousand acres of estates, or even a few hundred acres of farms. Obviously, the size of the economy was the size of the building itself, the castle or the mansion. However, they provided cover for the continuous preservation, maintenance, modernisation and expansion of buildings. With the disappearance of this world, the state has the primary responsibility for preserving historic property, and obviously the state is also considering what it can and cannot provide resources for. [[22.20]] So if we start from this, then I think it is very timely that we continue to simplify the category system, it is very timely that, in the case of certain properties, we also relax the protection of monuments that restrict renovation, and allow monuments to be restored with modern architectural solutions. I note that in the 1960s and 1970s, many of the technical solutions used in the spirit of socialist monument protection were extremely serious and harmful in themselves, but the point is that we must strive to help and serve the renovation of the property in some way, not only by giving money to the state for their renovation, but also by shaping the legal conditions in such a way that, if necessary, it loosens it so that the owners can really renovate their monuments as easily as possible. However, sanctions are very important. The merit of this bill is that it does not loosen or even clarify the responsibilities of sanctions at all. Therefore, it is possible for those who, despite their potential, neglect their protected buildings to be fined, if necessary, in the current legislative environment. This bill, I think, has the merit of rethinking the issue of state pre-purchase, that it makes it clear that it is not always necessary for the State to act as a pre-buyer or to act as a pre-buyer, and we can even see from the practice that, in the event of a change of ownership from 100 historic properties, at 99 the state does not exercise its pre-emptive right at all, there is no need for it to exercise its pre-emptive right. I think that the rethink of this has been timely for a very long time. The sale process itself is slowed down and complicated by waiting for the state to make a statement. We can say a lot of cases, when the state does not even comment, but can proceed to the legal procedure only after the limitation period, which obviously leads to a senseless limitation of owners' rights. I think that rethinking the historic environment is very important, and thanks to God, the bill before us also deals with this. I have often suggested before that, even in the case of a significant monument, what belongs to the historic environment, what is also to be protected in the environment of the monument, just because it was once a protected monument, we could give a very, very many examples of this, that the committee of experts drew too far a circle in the protection document for no reason. Property, land that had otherwise achieved nothing else has been protected but limited to the property space of the owners, but otherwise, for a very, very long time, for many decades, these areas have been separated from the former historic centre, so it is unnecessary to protect them. I also believe that the rethinking of this is timely. Let us honestly admit that when we started the internal professional review and the reclassification of monuments in 2015 at the beginning of the previous cycle, this work was not completed, so that is why it is justified to simplify the categories and look again at what must remain a monument. A very old question is whether or not the Historical Advisory Board should exist on its own. The bill before us provides that the Historical Advisory Board will be integrated into the responsibilities of the National Architectural Planning Board. I think it's necessary. So when the Memorial Planning Board was terminated in 2015, if I remember correctly, and replaced by the Historical Advisory Board, it was already felt that it was a temporary solution. This is much more logical, and besides, although there will obviously be people in the historic profession who say that, now, the architects are subduing the monumentists, but I have also said in recent years that these two areas cannot be separated from each other. So it cannot be said that there is contemporary architecture and the current construction authority process, and then there is a historic process regardless. I think it is a good thing that we approach the two together, along with the fact that it is justified to maintain the special redeployment regulation of historic buildings, but there is no change in this matter. The bill, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, also addresses the issue of protected artifacts. This is a very old problem, and I think we are moving in the right direction. It should be noted that the problem here is not just what the Secretary of State said: namely, let us say, in some auctions, there is no indication that someone sells a protected artifact or does not. Thanks to God, we see at the big auction houses that they take this seriously, and the auctioneer always knows that. I always go through every gallery on Falk Miksa Street once a month, and I always look at the current auctions, the auction items. I could say the galleries where, in addition to the images, let's say, besides the images placed, the auction, not only the starting price, not only the name and the name of the creator of the picture, but also the name of its creator, but also the fact that it is a protected artifact is clearly indicated in the catalogue, which means, for example, that the state has a pre-emptive right, for example, that it can only be carried out with the permission of the state. But let's be honest, there are many art collectors who are fully aware of this, and many art owners who are fully aware of this, but the lack of compliance is also a serious problem. I could tell you a number of cases from my previous practice, when we were faced with the fact that artifact owners deliberately wanted to circumvent the legal regulations and smuggle their valuable artifacts out of Hungary, or with the aim of selling them, because the state did not consent to their artifacts being exported. We also know of such things, and it would not be an example here, when someone supposedly wanted to take his artifact out with the aim of taking it to an exhibition, and then it turned out during the licensing process that it was actually just a cover story of selling the artifact abroad. However, it is obvious that, in the case of an artifact, protection also makes the rights of owners more difficult or limited, and, where appropriate, the State should also help to ensure that if a person wants to divorce a protected artifact, he can really do so under market conditions. One word to amend the Budapest Act. I am very pleased with this amendment. As Secretary of State at the time, it was my job to prepare for Citadel's takeover. A very difficult and very messy, legally, financially, from every aspect of the situation, we managed to get here. I think that we can all be proud of the fact that, in fact, a high-value, high-profile monument has been restored to public interest, which, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, is one of the most frequent tourist attractions in Budapest. For a very long time it has been timely to renew this collection of monuments, to fill it with content that can be interpreted for tourism as well, but also to highlight the special historical identity issue that it was a fortress that aimed at our nation's regulation. So we hope that the corresponding content and program will be added to Citadel, but we are really talking about a property with very good opportunities, which, after finally getting back into the property of the Hungarian State after a long lawsuit, I think it is worthy of being protected and renewed under such legal frameworks, just like the Castle of Buda. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So we support the Fidesz faction's bill. If questions are still raised in the debate, I will comment on them later. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-211	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács, notary of the Parliament, lead speaker of Jobbik is the next speaker. Here. [[22.30]]
u2020-06-03-212	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have always considered the protection of the built environment and the protection of artifacts to be a very important issue, as our party feels, and I can tell you in this brief speech that Jobbik will always be a partner in protecting our built heritage and protecting artifacts. And, of course, you will be a partner to all of these, in a reasonable and non-corruption framework, without partiality, so within a reasonable framework that can be undertaken with a good heart. In essence, this is one of the most important things that we can agree on, and we will, of course, be able to answer any other questions during the debate. I do not wish to add any more words to those that have been spoken before us. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-213	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of KDNP is next. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill sets out amendments to protect monuments and cultural heritage. Monuments belong to our national identity, which is particularly protected so that we can preserve our national treasures for future generations. On the hundredth anniversary of our largest national tragedy, this bill is particularly topical, because we are a country whose national cultural heritage is largely over the border, so we, the mother country, also have the task of taking care of the Hungarian national heritage of the Carpathian Basin, which is undivided and divisible, and protecting it for ourselves and for future generations. We must do this work, which is not only a task for us, but also a historic mission. For a nation who has lost so much, the remaining areas, our cultural heritage, are much more appreciated. We need to take better care of these, we need to make even stricter rules, but without the Hungarian heritage of the separated areas, we can never talk about a complete national heritage. For us, it is natural to talk about Hungarian national heritage only in the sense of the reunification of ten years above the borders, which includes the Hungarian cultural heritage north of the Danube and east of the Olt, as well as the monuments of the Lowland and Transdanubia. In recent years, the Hungarian government has renovated a number of significant Hungarian monuments in addition to the locations in the motherland, also in cross-border areas. The renovation and preservation of high value monuments, which play a decisive role in the life of local Hungarian communities, is a national interest. In the framework of the Rómer Flóris Plan launched in 2015, some 150 Hungarian monuments beyond the border have been renewed in whole or in part. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. L. Simon László, also played a major role in the development of this programme, so thank him. The preservation and renovation of local churches and monuments contribute significantly to the survival of the Hungarian community and to the survival of their Hungarian identity. The aim of the current bill is, on the one hand, to change the categories of monument protection, to protect monuments more effectively in order to remove practical difficulties in the application of the law and to simplify the regulatory system for the protection of monuments. Currently there are nearly 15 thousand uniquely protected monuments in Hungary, which are now listed in three categories of values: Monument Category I, Monument II. Category 1 and monument value registered as general historic protection. In the case of damage to monuments, there are also different levels of inheritance fines for each category of value, but in many cases it is not able to provide the deterrent force that can protect monument value from damage. To this end, the bill focuses on the value-based protection of monuments while maintaining the level of protection related to cultural heritage. Accordingly, instead of the previous three categories, two categories are created: from now on, all protected structures will be registered as monuments, the most prominent national values need to be created with enhanced protection, with the designation of monuments, while the rest will be classified as non-priority monuments. The purpose of the bill is not only to protect the highlighted monuments, but to protect all monuments, but to protect our outstanding monuments belonging to our national identity according to even stricter rules. In the case of our most important monuments, the State has the right of pre-emption by law and, according to the bill, the property concerned would be protected with its accessories, components, furnishings, and the plot of its location itself, and would belong to a designated historic environment. The bill also favours municipalities, local authorities, as it provides an opportunity to increase the number of local protected buildings, which bring value to the life of the local community and create a community. In addition to the protection of monuments, the bill places two extremely important historical sites in Budapest as a public interest investment, where rehabilitation and large-scale development work takes place. One of the sites is the Buda Castle District and the rehabilitation development area affecting the Buda Palace District. In recent years we have seen a number of renovations and reconstructions in the Buda Castle, which I think the whole country can wonder, and tourists, when they come back after the virus, I think it will also be a priority point for the country from a tourist point of view, but all Hungarians can also be proud of those renovations. The other location is Gellért Hill, the Citadel fortress and its surroundings, in many places in unworthy condition. The Buda Castle and Gellért Hill are visited annually by millions of tourists from both domestic and foreign countries, so large-scale reconstruction, renovation and spatial planning work also greatly enhances the tourist attractiveness of these sites, which can bring a new boost to tourism, which will further strengthen the Hungarian economy. On the other hand, the two historical world heritage sites, which define our national identity, like Kossuth tér, are a common Hungarian treasure and a national treasure, which is worth visiting at least once in life. I think it's an important initiative, including schoolchildren without limit! they go across the border, students from across the border come to Hungary, and all Hungarian schoolchildren can also visit the historical sites in Budapest. In addition, the two locations in Budapest are also a popular resort for the metropolitan people, a cultural center, whose refurbished renovation will also improve the quality of life of the people who live here. It is in the national interest to use and maintain these important World Heritage Sites for the renewal, protection and maintenance of their value-added and development purposes. Therefore, their renovation will be carried out through cooperation between state and municipal bodies, churches, professional and civil society organisations. In our view, a successful and strong nation cherishes its own cultural and natural heritage, which is in the interest of citizens and also contributes to the growth of the economy. The KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-06-03-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, head speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-216	[[He can't pick up the mic.]]
u2020-06-03-217	Microphone! It's okay, Congressman, we'll count you in, put you in a good place, and we'll count the time frame.
u2020-06-03-218	I lost the part.
u2020-06-03-219	It will be much more pleasant if the system works well. Take your time. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-220	Thank you very much. I'll return your bell ringer to Deputy Group Leader, I promise you, your clip. Mr President, Dear House, The fact is that we may agree with Congressman Nacsa on our ground. It is also important to preserve the heritage of monuments, and it is also important to mention this here, obviously, before the Trianon anniversary, that this heritage can only be assessed by treating Hungary as a whole and even the contexts of the wider region. And although this is probably a surprise to Congressman Nacsa, there were programmes before 2010 to save and support these monuments. I think it's good that we agree on that, and it's good that we have a common goal. However, there is already a gap between the two of us in the assessment of the bill, and I see that from this point of view, the Secretary of State and Secretary of State L. Simon were more honest when they said relatively openly that the aim of this proposal was to remove all the complications and difficulties faced by the owners of historic buildings. For example, you said that Congressman L. Simon should be taken to prevent the rights of owners from being restricted by the protection of monuments. This bill is against it, no doubt. It would take me a relatively long time to analyze the systematic method of dismantling and eliminating the institution system of historic protection since 2010. The last stop of this was when the Deputy State Secretary-General's Heritage Protection was terminated. It seems to me that this is about the last step now, although I may be too optimistic, and they may still have other ideas. [[22.40]] The Advisory Council for the Conservation of Monuments will be terminated, which was an advisory body of monument conservation professionals dedicated to this purpose before the decisions concerning monuments. I'm a great admirer of architects, of course, but the planning council can't replace him in this role. How do you want me to put this? I was interested in building a new building, not protecting monument values. Without questioning personal goodwill, there is obviously a different look on a construction site than an architect whose job is to create a new building there. I must say, therefore, that this obviously results in a weakening of the professional level of protection. The situation is similar with the reclassification of monuments: the intention to significantly reduce the number of publicly protected monuments is hardly implied. The Secretary of State also said that we will, of course, understand this matter on a strictly professional basis here, what it will mean for you, what it will be, what it is and what it is not, and what is not a state-protected monument, will be given to the municipalities, who, by the way, will not be in the financial situation of referring to our previous debate, so that they can spend on these monuments, by the way. So, in Hungarian, the problem of having protection is that there is no source for preserving monuments, it is shifted by the government itself to the municipalities themselves. To this end, Mr Simon, undersecretary of State, the state also abolishes the right to pre-emption in many cases, it is necessary to provide for a separate provision. Again, it's just a defence weakening factor. I must say, therefore, that the clear purpose of the historic protection part of the bill is what you have been talking about, that you have spoken to the owners here about how good it will be for the castle owners to be able to build there, but it will be easier to build there, and it will be harder to protect these monument values. That's what I mean. During our government there was such a struggle, of course, there were many kinds of lobbyists, some who did not like the fact that the protection of monuments would resist if they wanted to destroy monument values, only the fact is that we resisted it, Mr. Secretary of State, and you are in bed with this kind of lobbying interest, and from that point on, the question is which government is protecting national interests, and which one is subjecting national interests to business interests. You can say that this is just an empty speech, it's just a talk, only if you look at the cases of the past period, you can clearly see what is happening, it's enough to give two examples in Budapest to the public bridge or to the Heinrich Court, also known as the Vasudvar, in Budapest, one of them has been removed from the monument protection in this way, the other in a different way, and allow investments to be made by destroying the monuments or significantly reducing their value. What about the other important element of this proposal? Let me tell you what we agree on first. Basically, we agree with the rules on trade in monuments... [[L. Simon László: Art.]] Art trade, thank you; they're fine. The trade in monuments is another genre. We agree with the rules on trade in art, they're okay. We arrive at the other neural point of this bill: the same model that is so successful in the City Park that the various ideas and intentions of the government can be realized in the interest of the city dwellers, the same model being used for the Buda Castle and Gellért Hill. Congratulations! The renovation of the Citadel is indeed a long-standing task, and it is good that we can make progress on this. It's also good to find a source for that. What is not good is that they want to do this again by kicking him out of this system, denying the opportunity to say anything to those elected in Budapest and being elected at XI. in the district. I understand that you don't like the fact that there's an opposition mayor who might not be dancing by the taste of the government, but is looking at the interests of his constituents. I understand that this is a problem for you, but this is the case, and I think you should live with it. In such cases, the solution is not to take away the possibility in a law from the district or the capital to have a say in the management of important monuments, but to sit down and agree, however tiring it is at times, and no matter how much they do not want to do so. The situation is very similar with the Buda Castle. In other words, these two bill proposals came up when they lost District I, Section XI. district and Budapest, that's when it was important to settle this. In the past, there was only a rule for City Park because there was an opposition council. I think it doesn't make sense, it's not a good culture, and it's just the example of the City Park that shows how decisions of this type lead to situations that I don't think will, in the longer term, serve the investment that you plan and like, but, how should I put it? They lead to an unforgivable war. All in all, I can therefore say that this bill cannot be supported by the Democratic Coalition, on the one hand because it weakens the level of protection of monuments, contributes to the loss of national heritage due to commercial interests and, on the other hand, because of the fact that Article XI. In the case of major renovations and significant changes affecting the district and the I. district and Budapest, it does not allow the representative bodies elected by the electorate on the spot to discuss these matters. We cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-03-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill before us is another chapter in the frontal war on municipalities initiated by the political community of Fidesz-KDNP. I think that this attack in this bill is not even about achieving some kind of power-technical goals, it is simply about serving the needs of economic interest groups in their political community unscrupulously. We can see it exactly. If Sigmund Freud were sitting in this room, I think he would have fallen or fallen off the chair. Allow some quotes from the speech of my fellow Member, Mr László L. Simon, lead speaker at Fidesz: the rights of the owner have been restricted by the protection of monuments; the architects subdue the protection of monuments; and with which my fellow Member began to believe that protection was justified in every case. It is possible to draw the very simple conclusion that a significant number of them are trying to get rid of these monument protections. And indeed, what my fellow Member said: in the constituency, the 8th floor. The Heinrich Court is in the district, which has been a clear victim of this, and this investment is under way by using our common value, honourable Member, to build Airbnb accommodations. With all due respect, is that the great national common goal? ! Really, my fellow Members, my fellow members of the Government, my fellow Member Nacsa, is this the national common goal? Is that why we're sitting here in the National House? So I think that what this bill means will result in loss for all of us and in a predictable way, and, of course, in the way we have been accustomed to doing so. I would just like to quote the relevant section of the bill: if the municipal regulation contains a requirement contrary to or incompatible with paragraph 5 it shall instead apply the provisions of paragraph 5. In effect, this law bypasses the local regulations that are still in force at the moment, and I cannot, indeed, reject the image that my colleague before me spoke about, that simply as a result of the autumn municipal elections, they are forced to bring such laws before the House, because otherwise they cannot enforce the objectives of economic interest groups behind you which may be called lobbyists. [[22.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the medium to long term, the people who live here will clearly be the losers of this law. And that is why I am not an individual Member; I would like to point out that I am also an individual representative of District I, District V, and we will not be able to support this bill. Once again, they're doing what we've been accustomed to doing, to expropriate us, to introduce rules that specifically force local governments to do your bidding, to make decisions. And of course, it can be said that the municipalities are not good owners of these protected values, but I would like to note quietly that the municipal funding system in which we are and I know that the answer is once again that we have taken over the debts, but the municipal funding system created after that, the task financing system created by you on the basis of task financing, does not allow and only in the recent few weeks and, in some cases, in the legislative proposals that we have been looking forward to, this type of room for manoeuvre is further reduced for the metropolitan authorities. I think that we should consider whether the regulators that have not actually been brought against you by a local government should be bypassed. And I think, beyond the Heinrich Court, I could give at least ten examples from the inner districts of Budapest, where there was no other purpose for these circumvention maneuvers than for the companies and groups behind you to benefit. I'd be ashamed of myself if I were you, and I think you can do the same. Unfortunately, I suspect that this will not happen, but obviously this bill will not be supported by the Group of the May Other Political Group. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and now we are going to have further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman L. Simon László, Fidesz Group.
u2020-06-03-224	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's late, but we're gonna have to deal with a few things because I didn't think we'd be arguing about culture this late at night again, but we can't miss a few things. [[Gergely Arató: Tell the Speaker! Antal Csárdi: We did not put the agenda together.]] In particular, following the speech of my fellow Members, Mr Arató and Mr Csárdi. Although my fellow Member, Mr Harvesto, I think he has now made an explicit effort to be objective; My fellow Csárdi, I don't know what you're talking about. The Citadel is a state property, and I say to my fellow Member, Arató, that it came back to the state in 2014, after four years of fighting, after being played out to a company of socialist interests: the socialist leadership of the district government resorted to tricks that the state could not actually recover this property. It was a very long fight, I suppose, known to everyone. The situation is exactly reversed, as my fellow Member Csárdi said: it was our government that got the Citadella back, and it is our government that wants to renovate Citadella. Nobody lives in the Citadel, by the way, my dear fellow Csárdi, it's not a house, so I don't even know what you're talking about. But let's go through some important things. First of all, my fellow Member, Mr Arató, says about the plan council that the historic experts look at real estate in a different way from architects. I would like to inform Mr harvestó that the renovation of monument buildings is also planned by architects, and the renovation of monument buildings is also conducted by civil engineers, and the same masons are working on the renovation of a monument building as they are building a new building. There is no conflict of interest here, honourable Members. It is well-trained and excellent Hungarian architects who plan the renovation of the historic buildings. Our aim is to avoid a conflict of interest, and otherwise, in the case of a city, the city of new buildings and the city of old buildings can grow organically side by side. We can give many examples of this when this did not happen, especially during the period of socialism, when such excellent architects and the, for the sake of the record, excellent architects, such as the architect who designed the load distribution, which was still interestingly protected by ICOMOS in the Buda Castle, were responsible for the Havana housing estate, or the Lenin settlement in Székesfehérvár, after socialism and after the changes in the system, the Kálvin Square glass palace, with which we managed to hide the National Museum, but also thanks to him the wonderful building of the MTI in Naphegy Square, with which we have finally managed to degrade the Tabán, which the Socialists had been burged by. So I think everyone should be sweeping around their own house when it comes to how many monuments have been destroyed or how many monuments have been saved. I would like to say to reassure my fellow Member, Csárdi, that I personally did not initiate the declaration to be a monument in the case of a property, where it was justified. I'm talking private property, because I thought it was worth preserving them with historic protection for posterity. At the same time, as Secretary of State, I have initiated, more than once, that for certain properties whose historic protection is completely unjustified, we should remove the immunity from them. This is not a constant thing, honourable Members. And in my speech as a speaker, I also spoke about the fact that the fact that some property is on a list of monuments does not guarantee the preservation of that property, or does not mean at all that the property will be renovated or recovered. It is very important in this bill, in the speaker's speech, that when we look at the monument stock, we must take a special look at the properties of the last seven and a half decades, the period since 1945, which are placed on these lists in some interest. Speaking of the freight distributor in the Buda Castle, I don't think there's any reason to protect such buildings. We should be aware that the life span of certain works of contemporary architecture is much shorter in aesthetic sense, otherwise technologically speaking, than, say, the lifetime of a building built 200 to 300 years ago. In aesthetically speaking, it certainly is. I don't think we're opening a debate here between the fact that the buildings of the Havana estate are beautiful or not beautiful. I think you're saying on the other side of the parliamentary horseshoe that it's not nice buildings and it's not time-proof buildings. I could say a lot of socialist office buildings and monstrums, concrete buildings that you probably think aren't pretty. I would also like to recommend to my fellow Member, Mr Arató, that he reads the writings of the great architectural theorist of the socialist period, Mr Trautmann, which clearly shows what social and aesthetic considerations lie behind, for example, panel architecture. When my fellow Member, Mr Arató, says that narrowing down or regulating the right to buy state pre-emptions actually means eliminating a defence, I am sorry, my fellow Member, that is silly. I was just talking here in the speaker's speech about slowing down the sales process in a series of cases, because in 99 out of 100 cases, the state does not exercise its pre-emptive right at all, nor does it say anything about it. But I'll give you a lifelike example. Budapest, let's say, VII. district, or your constituency, my fellow Member, Csárdi, District V, condominium with historic facade. In it, let's say, 150 apartments are small studios and all the rest because the house is a monument, so the apartments are also protected from monuments. The sale of these apartments is done by selling the 35 sq m apartment in District V, say, to me, and then we wait for this apartment to be in a historic condo, so that the state can declare whether it is living or not. And that's why the sale's been going on for a long time. You can't get your money, and I can't get the property, and I can't move in there. It is pointless, in such cases, that there is absolutely no need to strictly enforce the pre-emptive right, but this does not mean that the bill shows that we want to abolish the state pre-emption right. Because I also think that if a beautiful 300-year-old castle in the countryside, which is privately owned, and, where appropriate, it can be married to a foreign owner who may pose national security risks, and the state wants to exercise its pre-emptive right, of course, to live. [[23.00]] We must add that it is not certain at all that it is good that most of the monuments are in the state, because the state is not necessarily able to renovate monuments with so much wealth. I remember one time when I went to the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. and told the CEO to know that at the tási windmills Bakony, in case they didn't know where the uncle sitting on the port of the small family house was selling the 200 HUF tickets on which it was printed that Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt., i.e. not yet Zrt. was written on it, but only Rt., because otherwise the windmills are owned by the Hungarian State and MNV Zrt. He's running them. This is also unviable and nonsense in itself, and it would obviously be much better for us to give it to a local NGO and then they would use it. Stay state-owned because the windmills are very beautiful and important from an industrial historical point of view, but that their operation should not be carried out by the state's large asset management company, that's for sure. When there was a debate on the national wealth law here in the 2010-2014 cycle, I raised it, and I still hold it to this day that, even in the case of highlighted state monuments, it should be handed over to private owners for 50 and 100 years for free but not for property. We can also give a positive example of this, see the castle in Fehérvárcsurgó, which is managed by the foundation of the family, and is being renovated as former owners, since György Károlyi, the founder's grandfather, József Károlyi, was the owner of the castle in Fejér county, and the communists took the castle from them after World War II. So the granddaughter's family foundation operates this castle, using national, EU and own resources to renovate it, and it's a matter of his heart, a matter of his soul, so that his grandfather and his great-grandfather's castle can be fixed up and kept in good condition. You're gonna have to leave. It's beautiful, it's fine, and thanks to God, the state's help will continue to renovate. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we should also consider that these incredible state-owned monuments, which the state cannot do, may not be good if we do not give them to private owners, not to property, but to asset management, who otherwise renovate and exploit them. [[Antal Csárdi: This is not in the bill!]] See how the castle tours work in Scotland. If, in the case of castle tours, you go to visit a castle, or go to France, and look at the castles along the Loire, in most cases you will enter a private castle for admission. They can't look at the private suites, but they can look at the library, the hall, the reception area, the stairwell, even the kitchen, and we could do that. I could give you a list of high-value public properties that we haven't touched in decades, and we probably won't have enough resources from the national budget or the EU budget to renovate all of them. Local governments. Well, my fellow Member, Arató, it is a complete misunderstanding what you are saying that the state shifts responsibility and puts the burden on the municipality. Well, that's silly. In fact, this bill will provide an opportunity if we accept that local protection will be even stronger and that local protection will not be underestimated. I'll give you an example. When I was not a representative many years ago, I worked on the book on the grape and wine culture of Lake Venice, together with László Lukács, professor of ethnography and my friend Lajos Ambrus, and for years I took pictures of the old press houses and cellars in the vicinity of Lake Venice. What I did was I took pictures of them in the fall, and then in the winter, and then in the spring, in different seasons and in different situations, and there was one on the former protected basement row, which the VÁTI used to take in the '70s, and there was a crooked cellar, I don't know, this concept tells you something that I photographed in the fall, and then in the spring I went to photograph it again in good weather, and the cellar wasn't there. I called the mayor and said there was a big problem, Mayor, this and this cellar were gone; I knew the serial number because I had the VATI's survey drawing in front of me. The mayor called me back 15 minutes later and said that Laci, it's okay, everything's okay, because they had permission to tear it down. And I'm telling you, Mrs. Mayor, you misunderstood me, so that's the problem, that this basement didn't even have local immunity; it would have been the mayor's and the municipality's responsibility. In this respect, the bill that we are proposing is more room for manoeuvre for the municipalities, and we hope that the municipalities will take advantage of it. A range of values should not be protected by the state, but by local protection, by the local community or by the local community, can decide what really needs to be protected, and not by all of them the state should be burdened with. We're not pushing responsibility, we're handing over the opportunity to protect their own values. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that there are big, big misunderstanding here, and especially what my fellow Member Csárdi said, are political lounges with such air, which are boringly said to be the service of our economic interests. No, my honourable fellow Member, we are talking about the possibility of renovating the monuments, and there are still very, very many Hungarian monuments in a fatal state. Believe me, my fellow Member, this is not about, for example, relaxing on historic rules in certain cases, it is not that we actually want them not to be renovated, but that we do not want the owner of the monument to be prevented from otherwise renovating his property in line with his options, his wallet, his circumstances, the technological processes in question. I think today, since we're getting to the point where, for example, in the case of rural mansions, the roof structures... you can go through Somogy County. Take a look at the Somogy County mansions. Take a look at the Ormans, see what buildings and mansions there are. Look at the state of the Hungarian folk monuments! It is no coincidence that we launched, as we heard from my fellow Member Nacsa, the Rómer Flóris programme across the border, we launched the folk architecture programme at home, we launched the national Hausmann plan, the national castle and castle programme. All these are programmes which make a significant contribution to the renovation of the monument stock. During the socialist period, ladies and gentlemen, when you were in government, my honourable fellow Member, Arató, we saw the destruction of the monument stock. Over the past ten years, we have spent much more on preserving monuments, not only in the state but also in private monuments, than in the two and a half decades before. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-226	Thank you very much. The fact is, honourable Member, that in some cases there is indeed a serious debate between us, and let me highlight perhaps three of them. The first concerns the fact that, unlike you, I do not think that you or I should say that the protection of a building's monument is right or wrong; I would leave it to the professionals. That's exactly what you just said that you disagree with the historic protection of which building in the Castle. It's not your taste or my taste that determines which one you like and which one you don't like, whether you're entitled to some historic protection or not, and it wouldn't be good if it were, I think. [[L. Simon László: Unbelievable!]] My second point is that, and perhaps there is a misunderstanding here, I am silently suggesting that at the time, Citadella was imagined to be used by the local government, and then it did not prove to be such a success. Once again, it is good to finally know what to do with it, but here is the big difference, Mr Secretary and Congressman, that it is one thing that the state is the owner, but another question is who regulates it. This is about removing the right to regulate from the hands of the municipalities. Where I live, I'm the owner of the house, but I can only build what the city building regulations allow. You are taking away this opportunity with these key central investments, so that the municipalities can talk about what is happening in their territory. And while Congressman L. Simon argues long, enthusiastically and correctly that it is right for the municipality to have a say in the fate of the monuments, while on the other hand he is pleased that this does not apply in the Castle and Citadel. Finally, I would like to correct a modest material error. You said that socialist architecture destroyed the Taban, didn't you? Special was the breakdown of Tabán between 33 and 37; then there was no socialism in Hungary, dear Secretary of State, so let's be a little more careful about that. The socialists are also responsible for everything in retrospect, but specializes in breaking down Tabán less. Finally, you can regret the housing estates, Congressman, I just have to say that the 700,000 families who moved in there often had this first comfortable apartment. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] For them, this was a very serious step forward; it is true that they did not come from the former and the current castle owners.
u2020-06-03-227	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-228	Thank you very much. I would also like to start with what my fellow Member Arató has already said before me: it is not ownership that is interesting, but the circumvention of the regulatory environment by various techniques. [[23.10]] We have seen an example of this, and this bill before us offers the possibility of bypassing the current regulation on a platter. I think that you spoke very nicely, my fellow Member, Mr Simon, but the facts, let's just say, are not in favour of my fellow Member, because the avoidance of immunity in the Heinrich Court is certainly not in the public interest. Nor does my fellow Member seriously believe that about 80 apartments in Airbnb are in the public interest, as opposed to the value the Heinrich Court otherwise represents. And a quiet, quiet remark: my fellow Member's remark that we should give it to him in private is very nice, not in ownership, but in asset management. Just show me the part in this law where it's written. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-229	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. I give the floor to Congressman L. Simon László. Both buttons are pressed, two minutes away. [[L. Simon László: I want normal.]] Normal time frame? [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-230	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The only reason I asked you to speak is to clarify that before you remain as my fellow Member Arató said in the minutes, I did not feel sorry for the panel people for a second. I've lived in a panel apartment with my wife for years. I know exactly what it's like. Many of my relatives have lived in panels for decades. I'm always happy to come to them with love, there's no such thing as pitying one person for living in a panel. I didn't say that. I didn't even say that I felt sorry for the panel buildings themselves, but I don't even understand what it means, and I merely said that from an architectural point of view, let's say, the panel housing plant that Csaba Virág designed in Budapest, Fehérvár and elsewhere doesn't necessarily create the living conditions that would otherwise be expected and positive in today's time, and that would be soul-shaping and soul-building. However, for many people, the ability to live in panel apartments under normal conditions is very good. I would also like to point out that even Tamás László was a fellow Member, who was the former member of the XV. The district had both the mayor and the representative of the district, and what a serious struggle he had fought between the walls of this House to renew the panels. And otherwise he not only fought hard to renew these panels, but also built a New Palota church among the panels so that there would be spiritual content and food for the people there. But neither can you, my fellow Member, say that it is a relief that many people live in such residential areas, and that would be really good. Plus, it wasn't like you said it was a great rise for many. Many were forced into the panel apartments, many were brought up to Budapest in the spirit of great socialist industrialization by truck, and almost forced into these apartments, as they took away their old houses, old estates, and then told them that it was possible to build such good Kádár dice buildings. And then there were people like my great-grandfather, who took away their own farm buildings and houses with their own hands, where my grandmother was born, and then they could be moved to some shack. And there is much to say, but, in any case, my fellow Member, I would like to make it clear that for a moment I did not regret those who live in a panel apartment, and once again, I have lived in a panel apartment myself, and still live in my close relatives and relatives' panel apartments. I've probably misunderstood about Taban. So I said that the horror of the period of socialism is decorated there in Naphegy Square, at the highest point of Taban, the MTI headquarters also designed by Csaba Virág. So you are right about that, my fellow Member, because we know that it is already the 19th century. At the end of the century, Tabán had been demolished, and they had not yet seen the value that we would see in those buildings today. So you are right about this, my fellow Member, and thank you for clarifying my speech on this issue. Along with how happy we would today be to have a little Hungarian winzig or something in the Tabán area, what value it would be. But this draws attention to a very important problem, honourable Member. And what is really the greatest paradox of heritage conservation is that, in fact, we often cannot decide which condition is authentic and which is worthy of preservation. Until the 1870s, there was no institutionalised conservation of heritage in Hungary or even in Europe, and Rómer Flóris was a pioneer in the establishment of the institutional system. If we look back now and argue, let us say, about what we should restore in the Castle of Buda, about the condition of a castle during the renovation that we have to display, in a wall survey, we see the layers stacked together, and not even the art historian can often decide whether the 17th century is an art historian. At the beginning of the century, the 17th century. Mid-century, 18th century. 1st century or the 19th century. We'll reconstruct the early stages of the century, reconstruct it. And in addition, we encounter numerous cases where a baroque fresco has another mural on it, so the mural has been covered with another mural. Therefore, once again, this is the greatest paradox of institutionalized heritage conservation, that we often cannot decide which condition is authentic, which one needs to return to, which one should be protected. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to think about, let us say, the modern utilities and comforts that can be expected between our living conditions today, if they cannot be built into a historic building, then who would want to live in a monument? It can be admired in museums, see if there is a Trianon anniversary tomorrow, although not in the Great Trianon Castle, but in the Castle of Kis-Trianon, there is the toilet that tourists of the world admire and look at how some centuries earlier during the Sun King's time, just enough to read the XIV. The books of Louis'day life form, in what way and under what conditions they lived. Ladies and gentlemen, We can say that no one today wants to live in this way, live in these conditions, enjoy the achievements of the modern age, want to have a normal bathroom, want to have a normal kitchen, want to have a suitable, modern heating in your house. It's a XV. All of this was not available in the 20th century building, so whether you like it or not, the monument protection aspects must be combined with modern architectural aspects in some way, and this cannot be done in any other way, just by giving you the opportunity to rebuild and transform the monument building in some way. So this also shows that, while, by the way... and here, we must once again clarify a concept: when historic protection limits the rights of the owner, it is a completely natural, not something from a devil. I didn't say it was some kind of crime or trouble, the whole point of conservation is to tell the owner that you can't do anything with your property, you can't just rebuild your property. You tell the monument owner that you can't sell your property in any way or to anyone, you can't arbitraryly break down your property; while there are no such restrictions in the case of non-historic property. Although there are restrictions on new buildings, as the construction regulations say that you can't build anything bigger, you can't build a building of this color or type of building in a protected street view, and you can't go on with it. And that's where I'm gonna end up with the Citadel. Ladies and gentlemen, You, I think, are struggling with your own demons, and you are constantly trying to prove that we are creating such rules as we did in the Citadel or the Buda Castle, because there is opposition leadership there, and we do not actually want to take into account the needs and opinions of local people. I note that the same accusations were not made when Gábor Nagy was the mayor of the I. district, and at his time many questions - perhaps I know that, because I was working as the government commissioner responsible for the renovation of the Buda Castle, and I also fought quite a lot with Tamás Nagy when the Várbazár was renovated. These were good moods, healthy, but also serious debates. Then, interestingly, they didn't say that, and they could have said that, because the debates were as deep as they are now, only these were professional debates, and otherwise, they said that if the state were to carry out a renovation or investment of national importance and even beyond, it would have the opportunity to highlight a coherent area from the local construction regulations and develop it independently. This is true everywhere in the world, by the way. So let us not pretend that this is not the same in France, Britain, Germany, and that the government does not have the same opportunities and licenses. [[23.20]] I would like to suggest to you that, starting from the development of Berlin's museum island, there are many examples that support my arguments. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches again. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, please.
u2020-06-03-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not in the Tabán debate, what the Member said covered most of the truth, but the final destruction took place in 1945, and reached its final state in 1968 when the renovations were carried out in connection with the construction of the Elizabeth Bridge and the construction of Döbrentei Square. However, I think we can admit that in the area of historic protection and in the state of the monuments of Hungary the greatest damage was caused by the communist regime, I think we could agree on this, both in Budapest and nationally. In that, my fellow Member, Mr Simon, is absolutely right that the rules on monuments cannot be against buildings, against owners, so that there is nothing sensible to do. In particular, my fellow Member has also spoken here about the fact that it is not determined on what conditions it is possible to make a rational renovation, but on a large number of places it is virtually none. For example, in the Balaton Uplands there are small, historic-protected press houses built in the 1700-1800s, with which the owners cannot do anything, they cannot be used rationally, preserving their beauty, and therefore their consistency is deteriorating, because the owners are unable to make permanent investments. Obviously, we're not talking about state property in small press houses, small buildings, because the system is too bureaucratized, that's what the system is all about: simplification. But the protection is always important, and the protection of all buildings must be fitting, but this way we can renovate the Hungarian monument stock to a much greater extent, with such facilitations, but, of course, by keeping it tight enough, than if it were hindered by unreasonable, over-bürocratic or years of prolonged procedures. That is why this is necessary. Go away! We are not talking about the largest monuments, obviously, in small monuments, small mansions, in Somogy County, in the Balaton Uplands, and in many other places precisely this regulation would help to renovate. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, please.
u2020-06-03-234	Thank you very much for the floor. I just want to tell you that I don't fight any demons, so there's no reason for me to. I will tell you who I am fighting, my fellow Members: I am fighting with the investor of Heinrich Court, and I am fighting with Mr. I'm in the district with the Ukrainian investor Erkel Street, who destroys protected values. I think, and in both cases, I can prove what I'm saying, that wouldn't have gone without the support of your political community. I think that there is no debate between us about the incredible, often irreparable damage caused by the communist regime on this issue. However, I would like to signal to my fellow Member, Mr Simon, that he should not be too concerned about the reappearance of the Kádár cubes, because the change of regime passed thirty years ago, the 21st century. The chance of this reappearance in the century is relatively low. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-235	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members will be speaking in a normal time frame. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, MSZP, please.
u2020-06-03-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not want to comment on the debate, but I now feel that as a representative of the MSZP, I would also like to say a few words. So the problem is not, we agree perfectly, I myself experience that in many cases the rules on heritage protection are very strict, and in some cases the owners, if they wanted to, would not be able to renew very much, because otherwise these regulations do not allow it. In this, I think we all agree. The problem arises here in the context of this law, which comes from the second part of the two laws, as it happens in connection with the renewal of Citadel, which, according to the Secretary of State, and according to all of us, is indeed state property. But at a time when they wish to remove municipal powers from the area of regulation, they do not expect us, fellow Members, to be able to support this! We are constantly talking about, by the way, there will be another agenda here today, on the last item on the agenda, which is again about a reduction in the powers of the municipalities. Don't expect us to do so when laws are being brought together in some cases and we are talking about a continuous reduction of the powers of the local authorities, and we are here to support this with a good heart! You would not be happy to support this, and therefore we cannot support this proposal either. Thank you.
u2020-06-03-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman L. Simon László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-238	I promise, fellow Members, that my last speech will be. I just want to give you two examples. I am no longer responding to the Citadel thing, because my fellow Members simply do not want to understand what is going on. So here we're just talking side by side, it's pointless to keep this up. You constantly assume malice about us and talk about the withdrawal of municipal powers, and we approach this issue in a very different way. I don't think that can be understood, but they obviously don't want to understand. I would like to make two things clear, just to make it clear and realistic. I have also tried to give you life-like examples of where the boundaries of life-like monument protection are, and how long it is possible to talk about whether there is any point in protecting something or how long it serves to preserve a building and its long-term sustainability. Just think, ladies and gentlemen, what would have happened if, during the period of construction of Andrássy Road, the rules on the protection of monuments were in place in Hungary, which are now in force. Would you like to go on Andrássy today? Would you be in Hero's Square today? Would there be beautiful, otherwise already protected monument palaces on both sides of Andrássy Road? I suppose it follows from my question that they would not be, because the buildings that were then demolished in order to create new avenues would have been protected by institutionalised heritage protection. So I'm just saying this so that you can reflect on the boundaries of reason and lifelikeness. I would like to say one more thing to you, because we have discussed the Venice Charter a great deal in professional circles in recent years and its timeliness. When we were working on the reconstruction plans of the Diósgyőri castles, I bumped into weeks and even months of struggle to break down the structures built into the ruins of the castles, or not by the historic protection of the 1970s. Monumentists and art historians have said that they are unbreakable, because in the last decade they have become an integral part of the monument. Imagine going into the non-existent courtyard of the Gothic castle, because most of the time, everyone knows what the Castle of Diósgyőr looked like before the reconstruction works began, and we see a gothic arc of concrete made in the 1970s, and time has already started. And the academic art historian says we can't destroy that gothic arch imitation, iron concrete imitation. Do you think it's lifelike? And partly refers to the Venetian Charter and partly to the Hungarian monument rules. Do you think it's lifelike? And is it more unviable, by the way, to rebuild the original structure by using the existing structural elements revealed and documented by archaeology and art history? Obviously not. That is why I am saying that we cannot, otherwise, can not be perfectly regulated on paper, but we are asking you, fellow Members of the opposition, to at least assume good intentions on this issue. Members and representatives of the Conservative Government are here in Parliament on this side of Parliament. I could say that our existence includes the preservation of monuments of crucial importance to our identity, these tangible impressions of the existence of Hungarians, and the possibility of being visible to posterity. At least they appreciate this one, honourable Members. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-03-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if they would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said in this debate. [[23.30]]
u2020-06-03-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for your contributions and constructive dialogue. As I listened to the bouncing speeches here about heritage protection and the monument, one thing became for me... [[Gergely Harvestó: Why is it bouncing?]] In a good way, I say bouncing speeches. So I listened to these comments, and one thing became quite clear to me is that the philosophical depth of this debate is actually at the starting point. If we can resolve this philosophical difference at the starting point, then it is clear what needs to be done from then on and then the debate on the text of the bill becomes secondary. The starting point that we have to answer is whether everything is okay now, the heritage protection and the monuments in Hungary are okay. As I listened to the opposition representatives' speeches, I concluded that, in their view, yes, and that everything should remain as it is now. [[Sándor Szabó: That's not what I said.]] Yes, the lines of the MSZP and Jobbik came in the opposite direction, but the opinions expressed in the lines of DK and LMP were in line with this line. So the way this thing is now, it's okay. The 15,000 monument values that we have recorded are managed at their local value, properly maintained, properly scheduled for renovation and care. It is true that if we accept this starting point, this bill is not necessary. But we think that, and as I understand it correctly, the opinions from the ranks of the MSZP, Jobbik and the governing parties have also pointed in this direction, and the government's position is that this is not all right. The reason why this is not right is because the regulation seems to meet the constitutional requirement at the moment, with the current regulation, to preserve the existing state, but preservation is also an excessive limitation of the possibilities for change. So this regulation is suitable for conservation, but it is not suitable for normal, reasonable, XXI. Renewal and renewal of the 100th century, respecting its heritage, should be carried out smoothly. We are proposing to launch a series of large-scale review procedures because this bill is actually about the government and heritage protection taking a deep breath and then examining these 15,000 monuments and trying to re-categorize them and, according to the new categories in the bill, allowing them to manage a normal, sober and manageable one and in accordance with the original goals and the requirements for the protection of cultural heritage. I believe that this proposal is thus, in this context, eligible, and I ask Members and their fractions who make critical voices to reconsider their basic position, and, as they say, to stand on the right side, and in this context, to leave the dark side. I'm sorry. I'm tired, too. It's probably because of that. But the joke aside, the other side of the coin is the Citadel. Critical sounds that have been formulated in connection with the proposal are basically limping. One or two factual clarifications have already been made in the debate, but I would also like to make one more factual clarification. Mr Csárdi and Mr Arató also said that, just as we adopted the regulations relating to the Palace Quarter after the municipal elections, we would like to apply this model to Citadel now. But it is clear from the title of the bill that the law that we are proposing to amend now, which also includes the rules for the Palace District, and which would introduce the rules for Citadel, well, look at the number of that law. It's a 2018 law. We didn't talk about any municipal elections at the time. The special rules for the Palace Quarter have nothing to do with the result of the municipal elections, just as the regulation on the City Park and the regulation on Citadel now have nothing to do with the municipal elections. Moreover, this is precisely the reason for the special regulation, which is specific areas where it is possible to refer to the fact that elected representatives represent the interests of the residents, but, as Mr Simon said, there are no declared residents there. I don't know if he's a resident of Citadel, Palace Quarter or Palace. Although I must be honest, I am bluffing, so I should check this out, but I am sure that the masses of voters are not announced there, whom Mr Csárdi should represent in combat here. These are special areas. They have always been, and the state can carry out the task required by the country in a special, united way, by creating a separate regulation. Because it is indeed about the state in which the City Park was in 2010, in the condition in which the Palace District and the Buda Castle were in 2010, and in the condition in which Citadel is now, the whole is simply not worthy of Hungary and is not worthy of its capital Budapest. So it is in the interest of the Budapesters and the voters to continue the renewal of the Városliget, to continue our development in Budapest and the Hauszmann programme, and the interest is that we can finally settle the Citadel case in a similar way along similar lines. The plans for this will soon be made public. It is not easy, because, as Mr L. Simon also mentioned, this is a historically loaded part of the city, and it must be dealt with accordingly. But it is clear that both the built heritage and the renewal of the green areas cannot continue to take place. I live near Tabán, and I run on Gellért Mountain a lot. It is not the image of the most touristly frequented attraction of the capital of a proud Central European country that the greenland stock meets there during a morning run. So these situations must be dealt with. We can be naive and say onionous things, but at the end of the day, it's still the case who else could do this than the state. Do the municipalities have a source for this? No. And it is not because the government is taking revenues from the municipalities, as you so much like to say, but the municipalities have never had their own resources for large investments of this type, for investments in the public interest, which are of particular importance to the national economy. These are public investments in all normal countries, so the state has to take care of this, and the state makes sense to retain regulatory rights. We can talk about a change ban. To give you a specific example, it is really about Citadel that we are fighting for the purpose of the XI. district government, if you want, can you order a change ban on Citadel? Do you think that is the Hungarian interest? It would be in Budapest's best interest to include the provisions of Article XI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, The district government finds out that it doesn't support the state's plan for the Citadel development and green area renewal, starts blackmailing the government, and you're telling And then nothing will happen again for decades, just rotting down our most important tourist attraction and its green environment. Is it really the protection and chimbrandt of the local government that we are fighting for a ban on change that a normal-thinking municipality would never order? Because they also have an interest in making that development, that investment. [[23.40]] Precisely, as has been said here in previous speeches, also in previous investments of this type, which have all restored built heritage, it is simply inevitable that cooperation between the state and the municipalities is absolutely inevitable, regardless of party policy logic, and regardless of the right to impose a ban on change, who has the regulatory, norm-setting options. So what I can promise you is that the discussions on this matter, just as in the case of other investments, will be done here... [[Gergely Harvestó: In the case of the City Park.]] The City Park, thank you for mentioning that this is also the case with City Park. Buildings that are not supported by the Metropolitan Assembly and the Mayor of Budapest are decided by the Council of Metropolitan Public Developments, despite the fact that we would very much like to build them, because they would be important buildings, but we do not build them. The ban on change, which was imposed before the decision was taken, was good for one thing: that we cannot increase the proportion of green areas in the City Park, because that means that if a change ban is imposed somewhere, there is no grass growing. We would also like to build buildings, but we understand and acknowledge that the capital does not support this, so those buildings will not be built, but we also want the grass to grow in the City Park. Therefore, maintaining the pointless ban on change does not make any sense. So I ask you not to fight demons, as has been said here, or to fight for meaningless things, nor to support them, but to support this investment in contrast, and please participate in the development of this concept. Thank you very much for the word and support. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-03-241	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws to the name change of Csongrád county will follow until closure. Government referral T/10755. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-06-03-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, In its content, the trial of a short, yet more symbolic bill in terms of our historic heritage and obligations is now beginning here in Parliament.2017. On 3 October, the House decided without voting against to change the name of Csongrád County to Csongrád-Csanád County from 4 June, so in this context we are already obliged by a parliamentary decision. By renaming the county, and with this date, the Parliament sends a message: it sends a message to all our Hungarian compatriots on the border and beyond that they are part of the Hungarian body, and any historic decision or political attack affecting our community cannot separate them from us. Thus, while we remember the 100th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, the National Assembly also expressed and can now express, by adopting this bill, that it is a worthy memory of historical Hungary and considers all Hungarians to be part of this nation. The bill itself contains only four amendments to the law, replacing the name Csongrád in the law with the name Csongrád-Csanád. At the same time, allow me to talk in a few sentences about the history of Csongrád and Csanád counties, about the symbolic events that justify the decision of the Parliament, which we hope to make now. Csanád County looks back on a millennia of history, it was established in 1028 when the former Csanád army leader, who served Ajtony after the battle of Nagyős, defeated Ajtony, organized the area into an administrative unit now as the rep of the county and as an ally of the king of state. At that time, Csanád's county included a large part of the country: it reached deep from Szeged to the east and to the south, and it was part of the regions of Toronto, Temes, Arad, Krasov and Keve in some areas of today's Csongrád and Békés counties. The county of Csongrád is of ancient origin and was also established in the age of István. Originally, parts of it were stolen far south. Its most important settlement is Szeged, already mentioned in a diploma from 1183. The two counties, Csanád and Csongrád, flourished side by side in organic unity, and over the next period they had experienced numerous border changes or historical tragedies. The county settlement in 1876 was an important sectional barrier for the counties, when the districts with special status were abolished and the county counties were made the sole form of public administration. The county list of the period of dualism included Csongrád county with Szentes centre and separate Csanád county with Mako headquarters. The county settlement in 1876 remained in force until the year 1918; with the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy and the birth of the Trianon peace dictatorship, a completely new administration system was established. The new scheme is set out in Annex XXXV of 1923. It's been filed by law, and the country is divided into 25 counties. According to the law, Csanád, Arad, Torontol has been born an administratively unified county, whose seat remained Mako, but the borders have changed somewhat. The temporary border changes of World War II affected this area, of course, but finally the name of the county Csanád-Arad-Torontal was simply shortened to the county of Csanád in 1945. In 1950, Mátyás Rákosi and the party state abolished the traditional Hungarian self-government, its historical bodies, including the county system, and introduced a system of council instead. As a result, the administrative territory of the country was divided into 19 counties and Budapest instead of the former 25 counties, 14 cities with legal rights. This county settlement abolished Csanád County, part of which Békés and part of it was integrated in Csongrád counties. Only a part of the Maco, Central and Nagyláki districts were taken to the county of Csongrád, the former part of Torontol, and the district of Ázkovácsház and the district of Battonya were given to Békés. The territory of today's Csongrád county consists of three former historical County identities. Annex XI is amended as follows: Csongrád County, founded by St. Stephen in the century, and Csanád County, the XIII. In the 20th century, the territory of Torontol Castle County is situated between the current borders of Csongrád county. While the National Assembly has decided to return the historical names of several counties since 1990, for example, the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Győr-Moson-Sopron, Csongrád and Csanád have not done so in the last 30 years. At the same time, the memory of Trianon now gives us a worthy opportunity to honor the historical heritage of the historical Csongrád and Csanád county and, in general, the unity of Hungary, the Hungarian nation and its common inseparability. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-03-243	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-244	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. The purpose of the bill before us is to make the necessary legislative amendments to Csongrád County in accordance with the resolution 19/2017 amending the Parliamentary Decision No 67/1990 on the counties of the Republic of Hungary, the name and seat of the counties. The proposal to rename our county was made on the initiative of my fellow Member, János Lázár, which I myself, as a Csongrád county, made clear my support. Of course, I think it is my job to continue to support, by all means available to me, the preservation, strengthening and efforts of local identity in the future. In Hungary, the European Economic and Social Committee, the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Economic and Social Committee. Because of the events of the century and the thousands of years left behind, the names of the places have a historical message. As we know, our country's administrative arrangement has a thousand years of history. [[23.50]] The establishment of Csanád County, as said in 1028. Szent István's head was named after this county, which is also the oldest diocese center with the bishop of Csanád. This natural, organic administrative development ended in 1920, which meant that the county of Békés, Csongrád and Csanád became the edge of the country from the middle of the country. I believe that I do not need to explain specifically to my fellow Members what the situation is like socially and economically and even from the point of view of life when someone lives in the middle of the country for a while and suddenly finds himself on the edge of the country. I believe that the socio-economic relations established there cannot be separated from the fact that, as a result of the order of peace of 4 June 1920, the national border and the administrative border have been changed, so that the performance, work and patriotism of these people have not changed. As is known, after Trianon, during the period of consolidation, the government attempted to maintain the administrative system of Csanád County and Toronto County temporarily, but this was abolished after the Second World War, the remaining parts of Csanád County, which, by the way, represented some tens of thousands of settlements, and the remaining few settlements of Torontal County remained only two percent of the ten thousand square kilometers of the former Toronto Castle County under the name of Csongrád County. I believe that this act was an immense destruction. In addition to 1920, the 1950s Council Act and the new Council system clearly show that it was not only about the mutilation of the country, but also about the mutilation of Hungarians. Because there was an external mutilation called Trianon, and there was an internal mutilation during communism, when people were deprived of their national identity, and they also took away their local identity. If a local community has the power, capacity and need to rehabilitate the local community where it has lived for a thousand years and whose traditions continue to prevail to this day, it is the responsibility of lawmaking and executive power to create the necessary frameworks. Dear House, In its decision of 30 June 2017, the Csongrád County General Assembly supported the proposal to change the name of the county, and the National Assembly took this decision as required by law. I would stress that this renaming cannot have a negative impact on the functioning of the territorial administration, but can only have a positive impact on the lives of more than a dozen settlements where there is not a Csongrád county identity, but a Csanadi identity. These settlements bear not only on their behalf the fate and past of this region, the community's cohesion, but also culturally another community. If such a change of county name has already taken place, I think we will not take anything from anyone, on the contrary, give something to a community. There is no harm in calling Csongrád County Csongrád-Csanád County in the future, because the people of Csanád had problems not living in Csongrád County, but having had problems with the fact that the Csanád identity was completely wiped out and impossible, because the very shocking situation was that settlements a few miles [1,000 years] together had no connection after Trianon 100 years. Destroying identity, eliminating it, I think is visible, measurable, and there are consequences. It's not an administrative matter, it's a symbolic matter, and I think it's a symbolic message to those who, over the last hundred years, have felt the need to live on the edge of a truncated society in a truncated country. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the proposal before us, the process of changing the name of the county will take place, so all judicial, administrative and other administrative bodies and territorial units will be the new, but I could also say that they will be called the old-new name. With what has been said and the Secretary of State before us, I am united in the Fidesz Group and support the approval of the proposal myself. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-246	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Without reopening the debate, which, if I remember correctly, took place in September 2017, which, with its original aim, actually aimed to put a kind of memento for tomorrow's day into the division of the county of Csongrád, the county of Csanád and the county of Toronto, was part of it, so without reopening this debate and obviously trying to be careful about it, because I am Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, a large part of my family has been living in the Nagykunság County, and we have had the privileged, lucky situation that in the life of our own family we did not have to experience what it was like when they split up a settlement or a county belonging to a unit, a region, an area, I see behind it, and of course we have to agree that if this proposal had the opportunity to help a dozen settlements in the life of the Csanadian part, then there is a region, a region, an area behind it. It also makes sense, and even if we are trying to repay an old debt in connection with the torn or torn part that was eventually part of Csongrád and the county itself. I asked my fellow Members, who are from Csongrád County, how they feel about this, because although Karcagon I can think a lot of things about it, and I can tell by looking at the historical facts that this is all right, but they, who live in Csongrád County, are speaking of my acquaintances in Macedonia and Szeged, have seen this a little differently. I would add this to the debate only to the extent that if we have a task, and if the government has an opportunity to understand it, or if the representatives of local communities, and even the representative, and Sándor Szabó, the other parliamentary representative of the district, must be able to understand it with the locals, the Csongrád County, or to make them see it, or to solve the problem that in some way they felt or lived on the ground as a bureaucratic overrun. Perhaps the effect that this has caused in some people is much worse, and it may not even be in a few people, but in many people it is the renaming itself, as important as it is not only in its symbolism, but also in reality this draft legislation. I think that politics may have been too dangerous for him, perhaps in life, in many factors, in terms of orientation, in terms of names, in terms of official names, in terms of the habit of this, the resulting frustration that man may or may not name, also causes a frustration. What I wanted to say about this is that if we still have a job to do, beyond adopting such legislation, beyond the fact that it will come into force, and with regard to tomorrow's day, it is to help people and the people living there, the Csongrád County, to experience this experience, to help them live it, to see this legislation as their own. Because, unfortunately, that was really the primary reaction, and I was shocked at it myself that many people actually saw a bureaucratic, identity-disrupting reform behind it, and it was very bad to hear that, because I had a completely different concept for the whole proposal. By the way, I can't decide who's right and who's right. I trust that historically it will be right that we must also express our solidarity at the level of legislation, that we must give space to the historical fact that Hungary has been mutilated, and that from Csongrád County, Csanád County and Toronto, they have actually made the country's border from the middle of the country, but we may even need to find an additional way to understand that, make it their own, and be much more positive about it. I can't decide who's right about this. At present, I believe that this legislation can be supported with a calm heart, and I will propose to my fellow Members that we naturally support it. However, this will not end the way for the legislation itself and for Csongrád-Csanád County to adopt this legislation now and to go beyond the debate in 2017, but to reach as many people as possible with the authority to say what it really is about, and really understand the union, not only its symbol but also its positive impact on everyday life. Thank you very much. [[24.00]]
u2020-06-03-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2020-06-03-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the year of national cohesion, on the 100th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, Csongrád County will also bear the name of the historic Csanád County. The historic Csanád County, founded by King St. Stephen in 1030 in 1920, has become the southeast edge of the country from the central part of the country, as we have heard. In 1920, the Mako-based Csanád county remained largely part of Hungary, while a small part of it was transferred to the current Arad county in Romania. Csanád county ended at the Rákosi county settlement in 1950, when its largest area was attached to Csongrád county and a small part was attached to Békés county. The current name change does not affect the territory of the county, the territory of Csongrád-Csanád county is the same as that of the former Csongrád county. Restore the name of the Csanád county, which was abolished by the Communist dictatorship 70 years ago, I think it is our historic task. I personally have a family connection, as I am a macoon on the side of my grandfather, my grandfather, as the president of the company of the people who came from Mako, urged this even earlier with Minister Lazarus. He felt it was a historical task, so we, as a family of Macedonian origin, thought that there was a historical justice to this issue, and it is important that the identity-forming name of the part of Csanadi should also appear. I agree with my better fellow Member that obviously all kinds of bureaucratic changes are often accepted by people by alienation, but I do not think that this is the fault of this Parliament, nor is it the fault of any of the Members sitting here, but of the former system which did not do so when it was the place to do so, and when the name of the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, for example, was created in this way, or when the name of the county in Győr-Moson-Sopron was thus established. I think the mistake of the power at that time is that the name of Csongrád County was not included in the name of Csanád County. Therefore, now that we make up for this decision, obviously there is a little fear of change, but I think that can be overcome quickly. According to the parliamentary decision of 19/2017 this year, the name of Csanád will also appear as historical justice in the name of Csongrád-Csanád county, which is an important step to strengthen the identity and community formation of people in the Csanadi part of the county. The county's name change was also supported by the Csongrád County General Assembly's decision of the 39/2017 General Meeting. This is a symbolic way of restoring the devastating destruction of the communist dictatorship 70 years ago, and we are proud to take on the heritage of St. Stephen, the traditions of the thousand-year-old Hungarian administration. This is a tribute to our past and a return to the identity of the Csanadian communities, because we believe that strong Hungarian nations can only be formed by strong communities. And the Hungarian nation can never be complete without the strong Hungarian communities beyond the borders and the unification of nations above the borders. The population of the county has nothing to do with the change of name, the bill before us contains the necessary legislative provisions. Where earlier the name of the county appears as Csongrád, this will naturally be changed. Csongrád-Csanád county is therefore symbolic, symbolizing the thousand-year-old Hungarian past and the survival of the Hungarian heritage in the next thousand years. As a representative of Chanadi origin, I naturally support and the KDNP faction supports this bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-249	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, head speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to talk for long, because, in fact, Mr State Secretary, Mr President, my fellow Member from Csongrád County and the other Members have already said everything that could be said about the renaming. However, a few things may be allowed to be said briefly in this regard. Obviously, the law is before us because in 2017 a parliamentary decision decided to change the name of the county. I am proud to be the first representative of Csongrád-Csanadi, because it is past midnight, and in connection with the Trianon Memorial Year, from today we call the county Csongrád-Csanád County, and I, as a representative of Csongrád, think that this will be an unforgettable moment for me. When this law was discussed, Congressman Lazarus argued that, in fact, with this gesture, he said to the Csanadians within and outside the borders of Trianon that the county recognized the work done by the city of Mako in the leadership of Csanád and respected their role in history, giving back to a thousand-year-old community the respect and respect that the people there naturally deserve. By the way, as we do then, we agree, and as we did then, I will obviously support this bill, both for the Socialist Group and for my part. But allow me to make three comments. Here, too, it has been said several times that in the territory of today's Csongrád county there were three different entities in the modern age: Csongrád, Csanád and Torontol counties. By the way, if we are talking about gesture politics and symbolic politics, then we can obviously see that the majority of the present county is from Csongrád county, which was joined in 1950 by the part of Csanád and the small part of the former Torontal County of almost 10 thousand square kilometers. If we were consistent, then, like Győr-Moson-Sopron, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, we would not be talking about Csongrád-Csanád County, we would be talking about Csongrád-Csanád-Torontal County. I do not know why this has been missed, if the Secretary-General and the Members of the Council have already spoken about this, then I think that the name Toronto should be included in the title, and then the picture would be complete. My second point is what the Member said at the time, and last week, the Government spokesperson, too, has done that, in fact, this does not actually mean a cost for the population, since the documents do not contain county names. In fact, the name change, the website of the government office will be the same, the postal address will be the same, the stamp and business cards of the authorities will have to be replaced, and obviously the names of the authorities that exist in the county. Another point that perhaps was best expressed by Councilman Luke. I asked a lot of people about Szeged when the law was adopted in 2017, and I didn't just ask my parents about Szeged, by the way, if I look strictly at the Csongrád county section, they live in the Csanadi section, how they stand on the name change issue. Yeah, I don't necessarily have to say that I don't like it, because it's not a good term, but they didn't really understand why it was necessary. In this, Congressman, I think we have a job and a responsibility to really explain it to the Csongrád County. Because if I asked him what they thought was important, that Csongrád county should be Csongrád-Csanád county or that the Southern Bridge should be built according to the government decision also in 2017, then there was no question that they said that building the Southern Bridge would be more important for Csongrád county than changing the name of Csongrád county to Csongrád-Csanád county. So we have a job and a responsibility in this. By the way, the people there don't really feel it yet. It may be a narrower part, the Csanadians really feel it and feel it, I'd say so, but not the whole of Csongrád County. So I, along with Mr President, think that this is what we have to do and our responsibility. But, of course, as I said earlier, in 2017, I and the Socialist Group support the bill. Thank you.
u2020-06-03-251	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: No.]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday; by 4 p.m. on Friday. [[0.10]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the measures necessary for the establishment of the rust zone action areas until closure. The government referral is T/10746. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-03-252	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us, which addresses the measures needed to create the Rusty Zone Action Areas, is an important bill and aims to remedy a decade-long problem. Rust zones are areas that I do not now use the definition of law that were on the edge of cities decades ago, but have become transition zones with the growth of cities. These are typically, essentially, well-placed, good transport areas, including public transport, industrial activities, transport facilities, large warehouses, and possibly old residential homes. After the change of system, this original activity ceased to exist in most of them, and they have been abandoned or barely used for years, and can be regarded as one of the stains of the settlement in any settlement. Rehabilitation of rust zones is therefore one of the most important and youngest areas of urban development and real estate development in the developed Western world, not only in Hungary, but also in all areas that have undergone industrialisation and urbanisation. The use of abandoned areas is central to integrated, sustainable European territorial and urban development, and in the case of Hungary, we have to make up for decades of delays. The development of these areas cannot function without an adequate legal and economic instrument system, the success of which lies in proper coordination, which is precisely the purpose of this proposal. The potential of rust zones is an extremely important role in the development of a city due to the values and opportunities of their location, and their rehabilitation is a necessity. Of course, the rehabilitation of these rust areas cannot be interpreted on their own. If we talk about the development of Budapest later in the debate, or about urban development in itself, then it is worth managing investment and development in unity, but I will tell you the details about this later if the debate is mixed up in this direction. In our view, the bill that has just been tabled can address three challenges in the context of what has just been said. The first is to build high-quality, new-built apartments in Budapest and in rural towns as well. Second, the decaying zones within the city are finally rejoining the city's life. Finally, the third challenge is to reinvigorate the economy and strengthen the construction sector, and, of course, I am talking about the relationship with the corona virus epidemic. The aim of the package of proposals is to free under-used urban rust zones from their current competitive disadvantage by developing housing, thereby putting development and, in particular, housing development practices on track for the state and society in a more rational way than at present, in a way that serves sustainability objectives at the same time. If adopted, a framework for the renewal of urban rust zones will be established to ensure that the construction of homes with adequate prices and location can be launched at national level in several thousand hectares within the framework of the so-called urban home creation programme. Meanwhile, we all know that in the last five years, housing prices and rents have increased considerably. One of the biggest growth in Europe was in Budapest. The supply was scarce, the price of apartments of small and average size with good public transport connections increased. This results in a significant reduction in the chances for many young people and families to create their first independent home to move to a suitable apartment for their needs. I say this despite the fact that in recent years we have been able to support families' access to housing through a number of government programmes and have achieved results. But this phenomenon, which also exists, has led to a move from the capital to the agglomeration, while these people continue to go to work in Budapest, to school, so they spend a lot of time traveling instead of relaxing, and car transport increases traffic and pollution. Consequently, the proposal also seeks to widen the supply of real estate in this context and to reverse this negative trend. One of the consequences of a coronal virus epidemic is that it has negative effects on the housing market in addition to most economic sectors, and therefore the bill also supports the objective of economic recovery. Promoting the development of urban rust areas by supporting housing and, in the longer term, the development of urban-important rust areas could be key to reversing negative developments in the real estate market. In the event of the adoption of the bill, these zones would be renewed with environmentally friendly urban planning, environmental and climate-friendly residential buildings, stimulate the economy, stimulate investment, and the government will support the preservation of jobs, the creation of new jobs, and the stable functioning of businesses. Basically, in the proposal, we would distinguish between two large groups of action areas in the rust zone. This simply serves the purpose of mapping the existing differences between these two types of areas. There is no need for significant preparatory work in the so-called spot rust areas, the designation of preferences and actions as a programme, the designation as an action area, and the introduction of improvements immediately. The other type of area is more difficult, because there is a need for complex, multi-annual preparatory work, because in such areas, environmental remediation, demolition, demolition or infrastructure development should be carried out prior to the start of the development. The bill is LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. By amending law, it would define the concept of urban, so-called brownfield areas at a legal level, while at the same time establishing that the government will assess and designate these zones by seeking the opinion of the competent municipal authorities. Finally, a key part of the bill is the amendment of the General Sales Tax Act, which aims at catalysing developments in these areas and introducing a reduced VAT rate of 5% for the construction of new flats with a useful area of up to 150 square meters. So finally, in summary, I can tell you that the government objectives of housing and quality of life are also supported by this Government proposal. It seeks to make up for a decade of debt by finally creating the framework conditions for the decaying rust zones within the city to rejoin the city's life, to be renewed, and the third point is that in the period affected by the coronal virus, the re-launch of the economy, the strengthening of construction and the protection and creation of jobs are key tasks that this bill clearly and clearly seeks to help. I would therefore like to ask you, and I trust your support. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[0.20]]
u2020-06-03-253	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-06-03-254	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a forward-looking and well-prepared bill in our hands today, but, as I see it, my fellow opposition Members are obviously here because they don't think so, but we will argue about it. I am convinced that the Hungarian government has taken a number of measures over the past ten years that have been targeted at helping an economic area, a sector, and has submitted legislative proposals that have obviously tried to improve people's quality of life, the everyday lives of people. He tried to create the steps of the welfare state, the possibility of these, and obviously, when there was an economic crisis, the government took measures that were criticised by even many opposition parties and opposition representatives at the time. But after all, it turned out that, thanks to these measures, Hungary finally came out of the current crises and managed to overcome them. Why am I saying this? Even from the point of view that this bill serves both social policy, economic development, urban development and environmental protection objectives. Mr Secretary of State has spoken quite in detail about what this law contains, and I would only mention them with a touch. As we have heard, this amendment actually concerns three laws, the amendment of three laws, and the core of the whole, the central element of the whole, is the rust area of action, which is defined by the law. And it is also worth mentioning here that the government has thought of both the short term and the long term in this regard, since the text of the bill shows that there is an immediate area of action in the rust zone and an area of action in the mid- and long-term rust zone. Obviously, both of them have different roles in this regard. The immediate rust areas include areas where the preparatory work needed to launch the desired works can be started relatively quickly, with less effort. Obviously, in the medium- and long-term parts, a larger preparatory work will also have to be carried out, obviously the recultivation of these areas, remediation and other infrastructure development, in order to make the investment necessary for the construction of residential buildings and apartments. It is important to say this because this is obviously the central element of this proposal, because the proposal is about, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the way industry has been transformed in Hungary, and this proposal obviously affects Budapest, affects cities with large county rights, affects larger settlements, county seats, cities have grown, life has been formed, so obviously one industrial plant, one area now called rust zone, has actually ceased to function. In many cases, they were either military or industrial plants, which were seriously contaminated, and therefore, as they require extraordinary resources to settle them, no one has touched them for decades. We have also heard that there are obviously many examples of this in Western Europe and Europe, and I would not go into them now, Mr State Secretary. They say that they may say that England is the most successful in this regard, because decades earlier, they started such programs in the 80s and 90s. Obviously, in Hungary it was necessary to establish this regulation according to the local specialities of Hungary, and as a result, the government will clearly determine where these zones can be designated in brownfield areas, seeking the opinion of the municipalities and local authorities. Which, of course, may not be enough for too much in itself, is obviously to put the state aid that will make this a sustainable, well-functioning investment, and I will tell you here what we think is the point. The most important element of the law, as it has been said, is that when housing below 150 square meters is sold, 27 per cent of VAT is reduced to 5 per cent, and in the future, the provisions on the implementation of investments of particular public interest must be applied to these areas, thus obviously speeding up administration, hopefully making investments cheaper and faster. And why is it important to present this bill? I believe that at least four points can be summarised as the positive points of this proposal. On the one hand, because, as I mentioned in the speech, this proposal is suitable for the healing of current city wounds, the rehabilitation of rust zones. In addition, these zones generally have good transport links due to the expansion of the city and are essentially well connected to the city's fabric, provided that these investments are clearly made. The second point is also important for environmental protection, as they help to achieve environmental and climate protection objectives by using environmentally friendly and climate-friendly construction technologies, i.e. in Hungarian: otherwise, the renewal of the ageing and poor energy efficiency housing stock. In the third point, I would like to highlight cheaper housing for families and young people in the city. I would like to mention this in particular, because I think it is worth giving some further thought to this. In the fourth point, it is at least as important, as the Secretary of State said, to protect jobs and support the construction sector, since, in fact, from the second quarter of 2019 on the construction and real estate market, the increase in housing prices has stopped, and in fact, this may even have been a welcome fact, according to the data of the 19th century. It is quite certain that the number of sales has decreased already in 2019 and that both the number of sales and the prices have fallen at the beginning of 2020. Obviously, the economic problems caused by the corona virus epidemic have put a number of shovels on it and caused problems both in the construction sector and in the real estate market. Obviously, the aim here with the 5% VAT would be, as I have said, to be able to create or create within the city investors' homes and residential properties with good accessibility and good transport conditions, which, under the current circumstances, will be able to buy at lower prices than the current ones, both families and young people. This is particularly important in a city the size of Budapest, because current trends show that a significant proportion of young people, family members, have moved to the agglomeration, and this obviously does not mean that they do not go into the capital. This must be an extra burden for both the capital and the agglomeration. So, if possible, the goal of integrating these rust zones and renovating them within the city should also be exploited. As I said, this is particularly important for Budapest and for cities with county rights. I would also like to mention that the active generation, as Budapest is also an ageing city, as its population is running out and the average age is rising, so obviously moving active young people and families to the agglomeration can also be a problem, as the lack of active, lively economic and cultural life causes labour shortages and competitive disadvantages in these settlements. [[0.30]] So this bill, at least the result of this, if it is obviously the case, can partially remedy these problems. In addition, as I mentioned, over-growing agglomeration settlements require continuous investment in infrastructure and, in many cases, over-heating, over-enlarged, over-enlarged agglomeration settlements are created, which are not necessarily good. We could go into the housing situation here and the development of housing prices in Budapest and in the countryside, but I think there will be a debate here anyway, so thank you very much for listening. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-06-03-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-256	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First, let me start with what has been described in advance and which is Jobbik's position, and then let me say my own personal opinion on this, which has been raised here in the debate. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Both will be united and integrated, my fellow Member Nacsa, but the fact is that unlike you, I do not know everything, although I have an opinion on everything, and I do like to take the position that is, by the way, a rational position. Fortunately for us, a representative of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, Dániel Z. Kárpát, is the representative who has been dealing with the housing crisis, the housing situation since 2010, I believe. He also drew my attention to the fact that the government's current proposal is in fact largely in line with what Jobbik may have said a few years after the 2010s, and which was already aimed at putting the market in motion and keeping it in momentum by means of a preferential housing tax, but in his view, this proposal is essentially a liquid version of this plan. This is also because the experience of the past period has shown that the discounted VAT on newly built real estate has essentially not appeared in market prices, it has been swallowed up in a very large part of the investors, and that the price explosion of the past period has virtually migrated into their pockets as an extra profit, and has not been used where it really has to be used. On the other hand, a 5-percent discount tax is our idea that the launch of a public housing scheme could actually be facilitated. The former and also mentioned plants, residential zones or parts of the city could be built out of nothing, otherwise suitable for this purpose, which would offer apartments for young people or even for the elderly for a third of the market price, who could then buy the property after 5-6 years. We talked about how attractive it could be and, moreover, the previous Member, László Böröcz, said that young people prefer to move out of the city to green areas, obviously bearing the extra financial burden, as we can see that there has been quite a price explosion in the agglomeration settlements, especially in the case of real estate with gardens. So a rent-apartment program could give young people who are moving out of the country tenuously to choose life in the city after all. Jobbik therefore had three proposals: a 5-percent preferential housing tax with its extension to public properties; on the other hand, a state fund should be set up to support troubled tenants when we are talking about housing problems; and the third proposal is to launch a public housing scheme. Now, in our view, it is indeed a good time to prepare for the end of the existing and otherwise imminent housing crisis, and it is also capable of dealing with the untenable rent market and the prices that will be released there. As far as my personal comment is concerned, I have repeatedly referred today to the fact that I am a rural person, and when I am talking about a Budapest or metropolitan real estate development and this is a classic way of integrating the priority area, i.e. an immediate or later area, in my vision and in my mind, it is always the first most important question, in fact, that the built-in area or area intended for incorporation can, for example, ensure fair transport for residents, because as a rural area, but I also think the people of Budapest will simply experience it as a torment when travelling in the city, Budapest or in the big cities. And the more crowded we make it, the more we support construction projects where not a thousand real estates are built, but three thousand, or not only two hundred or three hundred properties, whether twin houses or garden houses, but also condominiums, as happened, for example, in Újpesten or other Budapest districts, where ten-story buildings, built in virtually each other's throats, and having a view of nothing, are served by this quality housing issue? I may not know, Mr. Secretary, and I may not know exactly this legislation, but is it possible not to build buildings here that offer mostly foreign investors, for example, apartments for rent, which are suitable for Airbnb dwellings, but also for tourism? Is it possible to build real estate that is now built on the outskirts of the city or, where appropriate, in the agglomeration, residential parks where people actually have a living space? Because it is also a matter of 35 square meters for a family, for example, not living space, and there are a lot of new-built apartments built with such parameters, precisely because they know that building an 80-90-square-square-square-square-meter apartment on Budapest will cost a family that can't put together the money they need at the same time, or that a loan will become a debt slave for a lifetime. So the question here is that there is a way and opportunity, on the basis of this, to eliminate these landscapes or these otherwise useful, but timeless, entrepreneurial areas, so that a living community can be created and liveable housing or living, I don't know how to put it, to create residential communities. As a countryman, that's my first question. Believe me, I will probably never be a resident of Budapest, so I raise this with good intentions from the point of view that I also think of our fellow countrymen here, because I feel their problems. I went to college here, and I know exactly how bad it is every day, like being in a very crowded place, or how it is possible to live a full life where it is, for example, in a coronal virus epidemic; what a burden it was for those people in the metropolitan city whose coronal virus epidemic restricted their personal freedom. There are many aspects to consider, fellow Members. So, the main goal, I think, is that the location, although it was said to be well-placed, should also be good transport; on the other hand, it should be avoided that it should essentially become an Airbnb zone from a rust area, precisely because of good transport or easy accessibility. And I would also welcome it if, where appropriate, in this debate, it could be said, for example, in Budapest or in metropolitan areas which are now specifically suited, and, for example, give us the opportunity to start an immediate project or to start an immediate project, because it might still be worth considering. My fellow Member, László Böröcz, is right to say that this has been started in England, because of the changes after the industrial revolution and the relocation of industrial plants, they have started in London and in large cities the thoughtful redesign and construction of new house projects or housing projects, and in London, yes, you can see a lot of new buildings, newly built buildings, which spring into stem and industrial areas, rehabilitating rust zones. However, I have seen, as far as I am concerned, that these built-in properties of new and rusted areas have contributed to the fact that both in London and unfortunately, Budapest are on this road going unconsciously to launch the prices of real estate both from the point of view of property and housing, so to rent. If we have the opportunity and think carefully about this legislation, and there will be some regulatory or regulatory method to do so, then we must avoid that the rust-zone installation should not be the next engine of the escalating property prices and rent prices in Budapest, because then we are on a straight path to making life priceless for people in Budapest and most of the large Hungarian cities, and under Hungarian income conditions we will have to spend a disproportionate amount on housing. That's all I wanted to add. Thank you very much. [[0.40]]
u2020-06-03-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-258	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, CHAPTER XXI The technical and technological development of the 20th century, the new industrial revolution that is taking place today, has brought about a significant change in many areas of life: new types of jobs have been created and former jobs have been lost, which have also affected the lives and structures of cities. Factories, industrial facilities, slaughterhouses and warehouses, once on the edge of cities, have lost their former function over the last decades, and have become obsolete, desolate, neglected, dangerous areas, so-called rust zones. The new industrial activity now takes place in the outskirts of cities, in industrial parks. In the site of the former urban factories, office buildings and department stores have been built in part, but most of the rust zones are still untapped and parlag. These rust zones are the ugly wounds of cities, but they are located in an excellent area from an infrastructural point of view and can be developed to create new, valuable urban residential areas and office buildings. The aim of the bill before us is to bring about the necessary legislative changes to make use of rust zones. The bill introduces three new concepts: the rust-zone action area, the immediate rust-zone action area and the mid- and long-term rust-zone action area. The development of the rusty areas of action is in the common interest of all of us. In the development of areas that are often contaminated and also used for illegal landfills, the public interest objective is to improve healthy living and working conditions, to take into account environmental and nature protection aspects, to make optimal use of infrastructure resources, to make rust-zone action areas suitable for the provision of housing conditions and the integration of urban fabric. With the development of rust zones in the city, new construction, energy-saving, high-quality apartments can be created to counterbalance the process of suburbanisation. If quality, green-zone, affordable housing is available in cities, it will be a real alternative for many families instead of moving out to pre-emptions, thereby reducing the environmental burden in the absence of commuting. This bill serves the development of settlements, it contains general national provisions, and it also includes the obligation that the government may determine the delimitation of the areas of action only by seeking the opinion of the local government concerned or, in the case of the capital, of the district municipality concerned. We hope that the opposition will not start the usual hysterics and moods again, but that they are exceptionally pleased that we are able to hold a meaningful debate on a bill that greatly contributes to the development of settlements, which can have a positive impact on all municipalities as well. The exploitation of rust zones also contributes to the protection of nature and the protection of the created world, as new residential areas can be created using environmentally friendly technology, which can be easily accessible by public transport, taking into account green aspects, from previously contaminated waste areas. A reduced VAT rate of 5 per cent for the sale of new flats based on rust zones would be introduced up to 150 sq m in order to boost demand and ensure long-term construction demand for the re-launch of the economy. The simplified rules, the reduced VAT rate of 5 percent, aim to encourage the construction of new apartments at prices available in rust areas. Newly built, energy-efficient, heat-insulated, well distributed, livable, quality apartments are also needed in cities. Rusty-zone housing can also boost construction, which can also be an important factor for boosting the economy. According to Magyar Nemzeti Bank estimates, the construction of ten thousand new apartments will increase GDP by about 1 percent and create some 25 thousand jobs. At the same time, the bill provides a solution for the valuable use of rust zones, the construction of quality new homes, economic recovery, the creation of new jobs, and contributes to environmental protection, a healthier, greener urban environment. In view of this, the KDNP fraction supports the proposal and I ask my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-03-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, head speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not the usual tantrum that the opposition is or intends to conduct, my fellow Member, Nacsa, because I think that here, together with my fellow Members, we all agree that we should involve the abandoned areas in the pulsating life, in order to develop there, to shape the living space in line with the challenges of the environment. Let us say our concerns, however, because there are plenty. This bill happens to amend three laws. One is the law on the formation and protection of the built environment, in which action areas defined by the Secretary of State are established. I do not wish to list them now, and the Secretary of State has done so. On the other hand, I would like to say that the definition of the Rusty Zone Action Area, the immediate Rusty Zone Action Area and the medium- and long-term Rusty Zone Action Area are laid down in a regulation by the government, the municipal government and the competent district government in the capital. And let's stop here. I've been a congressman for six years now, and I've spoken a lot about municipal matters. In many cases, I have expressed not necessarily my opinion, not necessarily the party's opinion, not necessarily the opinion of my fellow opposition Members, but, let us say, the professional opinion of the local authorities. I have made a number of amendments. I want you to tell me how many times you have accepted any proposals that the professional associations of local governments have made. ? not an opinion, which was already written down. By the way, if we try to look at this widely, then the attic is actually full, because no matter how many opinions have been expressed, either by the local government associations or by us, in your reading, in your proposals, in your legislation, I think that they have been hearing deaf almost the whole time. And let's face it, because that's true; often, even if, by the way, you might not say it here, but let's say, out in the hallway they say that we would have basically agreed with that, but see, we can't do anything about it, the law is right, and our faction and so forth, and, well... but maybe the next time, then we'll modify it the way it's supposed to be. Why couldn't it have been written in this law, instead of asking for his opinion, that with the agreement of the municipalities? Because then we would be one jump ahead, and then there would be no difference of opinion between us, that we would happen to be seeing again in this matter, as a problem, that the trend of the last few weeks, the local government powers, the withdrawal of the powers of the local government, should continue; let us start from the law on the special economic zones recently introduced, where, otherwise, they want to implement laws in the background of local governments. There's only one request for an opinion here. What will cause you to follow the opinion of the local authorities, by the way? And, by the way, if you don't mind, let us start with the assumption I just said that you have not actually adopted any opinions from us, let alone from professional organisations in the last six or ten years since you have been able to govern them. That's one of the things I wanted to tell you. Secondly, it amends the law on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments that are of major national importance. In this respect, it can therefore be said that, in the case of investments of particular public interest, the Government lays down in a regulation the specific procedural rules for the location of the investment of particular public interest, its immediate environment, the implementation of remediation, the discovery of facts, and more. Thus, it will be possible to derogate from the rules on settlement planning and construction laid down by the government or even from national settlement planning and construction requirements, and to implement different rules. All of this wrapped up in a public interest objective [[Antal Csárdi: He called me a public interest...]] ; yes, as my fellow Member says, I said it was wrapped up because it is a public interest objective. What is the public interest objective? I do not think it will be if you, by the way, define such areas of improvement as a priority economic area. Once again, the government gives itself authority and sets out the priority objective of public interest in a regulation. This is our second problem, which I think we would expect some answers from you, because if it really is your goal to work together in some way, then this is the second thing I would ask you to answer. [[0.50]] The third thing, the third law, contains an amendment to the Law on General Sales Tax. This has already been the case, and what we are talking about here is that the bill introduces the 5 per cent VAT rate for construction works in the field of action: the 5 per cent VAT is for the sale of all apartments with useful floor space not exceeding 150 sq m, which is an important item for me. One problem, too, was my fellow Member, Luke, who suggested that young people really have housing problems, and it is really very difficult for them to get a place. If, by the way, there were areas in which, with the agreement of the municipalities, these investments would not necessarily take place in a priority investment and in the mandate of the government, do you think it is realistic that a young couple could buy 150 square meters or even rent? Even if I understand that this is the top ceiling, but we are assuming that we are talking about young people who, by the way, want to get an apartment, whether it is a sale or a rental. So I have little in mind of young people who, by the way, could buy or rent apartments of this size. Thus, we have a number of questions in mind. Who will then limit the government's plans for these brownfield investments if, by the way, you will only accept the opinion of the municipalities? How will it be possible to build in such a way that, in the heart of the city, in areas with favourable location, local authorities cannot actually interfere in these constructions? I'm sorry, but it also comes up when you're talking about high-profile investments, and there's a government mandate to build apartments here, who will build these apartments, if it's state-of-the-art investments. Unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State, as strange and smiling as you may be, the experience of recent years has shown us that, indeed, this is a small group close to the government, who otherwise participates in these construction projects. So, overall, what we see is that there is a bill before us, which could actually be a good one, because I really think that something should be done with the old brownfield areas, let's just say, but here is a proposal in which you actually have to ask for a blank check to build whatever the government wants anywhere, at any time, at its own discretion, because otherwise, the municipalities will have little say in this. If you can rebut these questions and answer them in substance, then I say that it makes sense to talk further about the possibilities of otherwise filling these truly unused areas or areas that have been fought down with life. If not, then it's really a blank check that in our case the MSZP can't support. Thank you.
u2020-06-03-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-262	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. In fact, I could say that at times I enjoy watching the government start on matters that seem to be a great deal of food, and if they can solve them, then in a sense it would deserve recognition. But then I always realize that sooner or later, they do something and they do it in a way that they smuggle in solutions that make it completely useless. I am looking at something like this again: while we should solve a problem that has existed for decades, they are moving in a direction that is unacceptable in itself, otherwise unconstitutional, and I can honestly say that it does not meet our expectations in line with our European standards. So it really is very missing and important that at least once in a lifetime in itself, and this case should have given us a good opportunity to prepare an impact assessment of what is really going on here. In hindsight, you will have the territories, and then you will be able to learn and try everything afterwards, but I think that, in accordance with the legislation you have passed, this law calls for an assessment of what you are going to do at all. I would also like to add right here at the beginning that I do not know how many years you have been talking about solving the problem of housing, because at times you are dissociating from it in order to start a meaningful rental program, and the government is involved in this and to support such a program. This will shut you down, and as a consequence of the increase in property prices and the increase in rent over the last few years, otherwise, the chances of independent housing are somewhere in the Moon today. Here in Budapest, not in the downtown, but also in the outer district, there is a limit of 150 thousand forints, for which you can rent an apartment with one and a half rooms. I hope you know precisely that this is the case, this is the market price in scale, and, by the way, I see in the municipalities that this price has been raised ever higher in recent years. So, yes, the housing problem is real. If they want to launch such a large project and not only paint the possibilities, and then in the end it turns out that some of these elements will be realized, we can even name who will build it today or who will get the opportunity to do so, it will look different. So my first lack is that there has not been an impact assessment that really shows what the benefits of this are, what the risks are, what are the most important areas that need to be addressed, how much the question of environmental protection can prevail here, since we already know that there are such areas. My second point is, in fact, from this, because it is not honest enough what you have just presented to us here, and I can therefore safely say the difference between us. It is undoubtedly a fact, as I said before, that there are such areas, but in these areas there are municipalities that should have given you the opportunity. See, there has been such a thing, even within the framework of the integrated urban development programme, and you could think about how these have been implemented, for example, what their experiences are. I will say one thing: an important element of the integrated urban development programme is that it draws attention not only to housing but also to services there. You already had a project like this, when you caught it, designated the area, thought you'd solve it, and then, by the way, people evicted from foreign currency loans were moved to Ocsa, where there was nothing, and they couldn't even organise transport. It also cost the country billions of forints, but it did not provide a solution. [[1.00]] On the other hand, it's right in front of you, get out on the street a few hundred meters from here, almost so I can say, the XIII. In the district there is an organic development, and over the last decades it has been proven that brownfield investment is constantly developing on a market basis... and otherwise opens up with growing opportunities. Otherwise, if it were to conclude that this process should be accelerated rather than intervened by the State, that these processes, in which the municipalities have experience, and are directly with the stakeholders, where I might say, I am telling you now on Újpest's example, people are lining up to get a rental because they have no other housing capacity, because they cannot afford it on the market, then this option should actually be supported and helped. I also understand the intention behind or in the fact that they are actually trying to help the construction industry as a form of crisis management. Only because it appears from the forecasts that by 2021 only a few more housing constructions have been planned so far than was otherwise built in 1944 in the war year. So it's light-years away from the 35-40,000 apartments you've hated terribly from 1 0 to 1 0 years ago. You are not proposing a solution to this, and in this way you are making a second mistake. So it's not enough that what you're doing is unacceptable, and in this respect, because of unconstitutionality, there's the next step to exclude the municipalities completely from this. In fact, I could say that according to your superior culture, they say that they will appoint, take and do it. Well, then do it accordingly, but I respectfully suggest that this form is not acceptable. There's the third element that concerns the risks. Contaminated areas can be surveyed quickly, and I think you are aware that this cannot be financed by VAT reduced to 5 percent, and therefore other solutions will be needed here. In addition, you are enthusiastically saying that we are talking about areas with excellent infrastructure, but again, because you may have information, and you may say so bravely, but I would not be surprised if the approach to these areas, the state of the roads, the state of the channels leading there, the supply of electrical works would require renovations of a magnitude that would otherwise have to be financed. If I add this to the fact that there is a risk that you, for example, here on the bank of the Danube, on the Kopaszi dam... are an excellent entrepreneur who was lucky enough to receive a gift of 15 billion forints to start building in the area, so it is not difficult to enter into business. Honestly, that doesn't take much knowledge. Otherwise, if you have to put all this together, then I see that there is a huge risk that you will continue to work with the selected ones, and those few large entrepreneurs, I would rather say that the national large entrepreneur who stands next to you will be the winners of this, and they will be born, not necessarily, but there will be such an opportunity for such an antiquity, in which people will suddenly see that they have stayed in a ghetto that you thought was right, and will only cause another problem. So my third big problem is that, due to the enormous corruption that has taken over Hungary, this is another opportunity in this regard. It must be mentioned in the section on municipalities, and I think that it is hypocrisy, I might say, impertinence, that it is now very graciously written here that they can express their opinion on something that is going on in their territory. Well, God bless you. The municipalities cannot give an opinion on this, they are the ones who are involved in this. The fact that you are creating a situation in which the municipalities are being excluded from more and more, is, in fact, pure political revenge, or, in fact, to put it aside for self-interest, profit, because otherwise you want to draw areas of the little Orbán kingdoms, and in this way you are thinking in a new map, these are the solutions that may actually be in your mind, but I think that this must be brought to the attention. It is infinitely annoying, and I conclude with this line of thought and what I have to say in this process, that, after all, they are ignoring, in this process, the opportunity to make a contribution to the beginning of young people's lives, and thus to break down the price-raising situation that has arisen in recent years, partly due to your economic policy, and, on the other hand, ignoring, as I have said, the launch of this rental scheme, in this form, as I have said, makes this initiative unacceptable in itself. I think that all of this does not serve the interests of Hungarian citizens overall. This law would still have to be changed a lot in order to really do something about it. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-06-03-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. [[For signal:]] Excuse me, Congressman. I'm asking for your understanding, but you weren't on the lead speaker list. [[Antal Csárdi: I signed it.]] I don't know... But of course, he pressed a button, has the same right and authority. Then there will be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-264	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, When I was confronted with the title of the law, I was extremely optimistic and happy: we are finally going to do something about the incredible amount of rust zones that are uglinessing in many places in the hearts of cities today. Unfortunately, this optimism only lasted until I started reading the bill. 'Cause what are we looking at? With regard to the amendment of the three laws also mentioned by the Deputy Minister, we see that this bill continues where, by the way, the law negotiated two years ago and, as we have seen it in the last few weeks and days, we have been constantly meeting him to discuss a bill for the purpose of serving the economic interest groups behind your political community again. [[1.10]] Why do I think that? I think this because although the recultivation of rust zones, the involvement of urban blood circulation, is an incredibly important thing, so, in this, the faith-balage, gives a horse in God's way, it can't be. It's thoughtless, professionally quite desperate. Perhaps I would like to start by saying what several of my fellow Members have said about the fact that the government in the capital, by seeking the opinion of the competent district government, lays down the municipal development and organisation powers in a regulation. I think this sentence is some kind of desperate scam. The request for an opinion does not oblige anyone to do anything, even though we know precisely that every district, the capital itself, has its own settlement plans, because they were asked to do so and were empowered to do so in the municipal elections. And then one of these laws works, of course, to settle the rust zones, but it's not subject to district regulation, but we'll ask you your opinion, then we'll do what we want, and really, it's based on your ten-year government. We know exactly how this works for you. This is a big question: if this law bypasses district building rules, how do you imagine such an investment? 'Cause how does it start? Will you get the transport infrastructure out of nowhere? You get the infrastructure for public services out of nowhere, garbage transportation, kindergarten, nursery, doctor, school? Will you have the infrastructure for public transport? Or are we gonna get the utility service out of nowhere? I think it's something quite incredible. Yes, I can give you a specific example: the XI. In the district, such a development has already started, where practically 40,000 housing parks and urban districts have been created, with virtually more than 25 percent increase in the entire potential population of the district, but they have forgotten to produce sufficient quality and quantity of public service, transport and public transport infrastructure. This works in the life of a local government and my fellow Member Böröcz, who was a deputy mayor in the city centre, knows precisely that the investor is entering into a contract with the municipality and undertakes to build these infrastructure elements. And, please, respectfully, we know about these rust zones where they are, as far as Budapest is concerned. I think how far they're not on the ground and in reality, it's shown by a lot of others. Such an area, for example, is the MÁV area between Central and Outer Ferencváros, the Scent Road, that only IX. I'll give you a district example, but there's one in the VIIIth, Stone Mine, a long list. I have a respectful question: how do we imagine these investments? Who will pay for the recultivation of these areas? It is not so long ago that we found the chemicals on the BVM site of the Scented Road, my fellow Members, have found the pollutants accumulated in incredible quantities that have contaminated the soil deeply, not locally, but in a very large extent. So it was a smelly road, but pollution was measurable even in the Attila József colony, pollution was noticeable and measurable in Pesterzsébet. And if you had done a little research because you were serious about it, you would know precisely that the recultivation of these areas requires thousands of billions of forints of investment, without one more brick being laid down, it's only recultivation. Ladies and gentlemen, Ask Mayor Tarlós how much the Recultivation of the Ganztelep cost, in what capacity it succeeded, in how long it took to complete it. And if we look at this, it's gonna come out fast enough that 42 days is not enough for the remedial procedure. These areas are typically severely contaminated, whether it is a defence area or an MÁV area, in particular, which is physically impossible to reactivate in 42 days. To this day, I cannot read from this bill who pays for the ferryman, who will pay for the recultivation. Or do we build on contaminated materials and risk the people who later live there? I don't suppose that's anyone's goal, nor yours. But then I would ask for a clear, fair, open answer as to how, from what source they intend to remedy these areas, because without it, a hoof cut cannot be made there. We know very well that, as in the Ganztelep, benzene derivatives have contaminated the soil deep on the Scenty Road, reaching the ground water in several places, I add. We know very well that the MÁV colony in Kőbánya is also severely contaminated. How do we intend to resolve this? I think that until there are answers to these questions, this law cannot be voted in favour. Indeed, it is the case, ladies and gentlemen, that you are trying to save the impact assessment, because it would quickly turn out that the state, the government, has an obligation here. You have an obligation that has not just been created, and it is not your clear, exclusive responsibility, the responsibility of the government at all times. The recultivation of these contaminated areas has been in the air for long decades, nothing is happening. I think that they will come here with a bill that will allow you to build on contaminated rust areas with cheap, 5% VAT, without infrastructure and everything. But really, if and if you don't want investors or the law to come up with a remedy, then these investments are unreal. I think it's amazing that this is prepped. Because what would explain the need for specific rules for this type of investment? What explains this? Why aren't the district building rules good? Why should the derogation be allowed? And I know, Congressman Böröcz, that you are shaking your head now, but the fact is that, in connection with the priority investments, we have lived countless times before that you have bypassed these rules, but by otherwise allowing this bill to comply with neither heritage protection nor urban, nor green surface, nor even fire protection regulations. You can just go around everything. And yet, as a Green Party Member, I dare say that the basic problem is the contamination of these areas, even if it is extremely valuable, but because it belongs to the MÁV, it is also the issue of the area that belongs to the rust zone. I think that if you were serious about this and really expected social benefit from it, you would want society, the sum of Hungarian citizens, to be the winner of this, you would not do so. Then they would do, please respectfully, an impact study showing which area... would not be to be designated, but to know which area we want to include in the Rusty Zone classification, the condition of these areas in terms of pollution, how long it would take to recultivate these areas, for what amount, and then, after recultivation, to start an investment package that can actually work. [[1.20]] But that's not what this bill is preparing right now. This bill prepares us not to recreate and not to solve these pollutions, but to cover it up. Only, ladies and gentlemen, if this happens by mistake, tens of thousands of those families who will move there will suffer. Ladies and gentlemen, Tell me, for example, how much the area around Scenty Road is covered in terms of public transport. How much is the same area normally covered in terms of transport? What does the availability of public services look like there? And it soon turns out that this can not be done without the municipalities, or very, very difficult. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's exactly what this is about!]] But there's not enough expression for that. There was so much courage in you that you didn't really think that this was the goal of undertaking, as my fellow Member said, with the agreement of the municipalities. We feel the difference between opinion and agreement, don't we? The opinion is like the smell of armpits, everyone has it, but no one wants to hear about someone else's. I think it's either the government's commitment or it's not doing anything. And as it stands, it is written in this law that he does nothing. In fact, we can see precisely that there will be areas where investors close to your political community will benefit very much through the 5% VAT. We've seen it on the coast of Rome, and we'll probably see something like it. I think that this bill is neither professionally nor politically acceptable, so the May Other Politics will not support it. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-03-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the series of speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-266	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said at this late hour. I am always happy to listen to Mr Csárdi's theatrical lectures here in Parliament, but I always feel that he swells, swells the story, and then somehow we are lost in detail. There is no reason in the bill that the municipal provisions of the municipalities should not be complied with in these investments if such an investment is to be made. Nowhere in the bill is it exclusively laid down that such investments could be made only in areas that are very polluted and problematic for several years. The bill states that there are areas in which immediate investment can be made, so there will be immediately rust zones and there will be areas of medium to long-term rust. The latter may, in principle, include areas where the area is more contaminated and therefore, it is clear that recultivations should be carried out there. But let's not confuse the two, and it's supposed to be possible for both. That 5 percent VAT is enough or not enough in terms of this type of investment will obviously be decided by life and the area in which investments and housing constructions can be carried out in this construction, and the areas in which it is not, will obviously be revealed, since the government will examine which brownfield areas are at all possible. Obviously, the government cannot solve all problems with this bill, but I think it is an excellent step to start dealing with the problem of these areas, which has not been dealt with in decades. I believe that you have something critical to say to Congressman Varju and to Mr Szabó, but you have not really started anything with these areas, even though you have eight years. Of course, it can be criticized again, but you have not had any proposals that have dealt with this problem at the very least. Regarding the type of economic policy the government is pursuing, you may have critical comments. We have already listened to these, but if we had listened to you in the last eight to ten years, Hungary would probably be in a lot of trouble, and I do not think that the country could have recovered from the economic crisis after 2010. After all, Hungary has achieved the highest economic growth in Europe in 2019. These are the facts, Congressman. You may not like the Orbán government, you may not like this government and this political approach, you do not have to agree with it, but there is a performance behind the government. And in many cases where the Hungarian state had decades behind, this government touched on them and began to rebuild the economy. For comments on the housing market, and to be a priority investment in the public interest, not a priority investment, well, as I said, there is no such thing as a government designation of an area in the bill, and it will not be subject to local construction regulations. The districts and municipalities will obviously be consulted by the government. It is worth identifying areas for which there is a realistic chance that investments will start there, whether they are privately owned or owned by a state or by a local government. In terms of the number of housing markets and housing, it is clear that the effects of the corona virus have not only caused health problems, but also very serious economic problems, and not only in Hungary, but also in Europe, in almost every country, and in Hungary, the construction and real estate markets have been seriously affected. I think it is a fundamental goal for the government to put the real estate market and the construction sector in a position, and if it can associate this with the rehabilitation of the rust areas that are mentioned in the bill, then the country will win double in this respect in this story. I believe that we could have all sorts of long debates on this, and for two more years we can argue about who will decide how to decide and on what basis it will decide which will be such an investment and which will be such a zone, but now we have this crisis, now Hungary is in a position to help the construction industry, so we need to take action now. As the Prime Minister said, practical steps are now needed, and this bill also includes trying to solve an acute problem, a decade-long problem, so that both the population, families and the Hungarian construction and the real estate market can develop. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a series of two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-268	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'd respond to a few things, too. I am not surprised that Congressman László Varju faked false surprise as if he didn't know what areas we were talking about. Mr Csárdi said a few minutes later that we know exactly what areas we are talking about in Budapest. Everyone who walks around the city can see what these areas are. By the way, similar projects are already under way, such as the Kopasi dam construction mentioned by you, or the continuous development in the vicinity of the Közlőhíd. By the way, the president of the National Association of Construction Entrepreneurs also said that their proposals were included in this proposal, i.e. in agreement with professional organisations. That's all I'd like to say to your professional criticism. [[1.30]] They also said that this was a major plan for 2030, as there are also mid- and long-term rust action plans, but, for example, the construction contractors said that this was the case in the third, IX, XIII, XI. In the district there are areas that can be started almost immediately. And you don't really think they're gonna try to put it in our mouths, so what they're trying to do is they're gonna boost, say, a residential park in the third floor. In a rusty part of a district where there will be no canals and electricity? 'Cause that's about the kind of criticism we're having right now. [[Antal Csárdi: Comprehension!]] That there will be no utility service, there will be no sewerage, there will be no different such services. By the way, there have already been several successful projects in the part of Fehérvári út from the Danube south of the Kopaszi dam, for example, and they also said that they can start immediately. So obviously, for example, the Scent Road you mentioned, which requires a much more serious recultivation, is probably not a project that can be started tomorrow, but requires longer preparation and a longer survey. This is why there is also immediate, medium- and long-term rust integration. Obviously, they should be assessed and separated when which can be achieved. But they have declared that there are areas that can be started immediately, and I believe that this is in the interest of Budapest and of the other cities, too, obviously, against what you claim. Thank you.
u2020-06-03-269	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-270	Thank you very much. The Kopasi dam is a good example of how to appoint a rust zone for an otherwise non rusty, but extremely valuable property, building land or area. So I'm glad to hear you say that, fellow Member. But basically, my question is very simple. You didn't deny that we're talking about highly contaminated areas here. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is!]] Sorry, I'll keep going. On what grounds do any of you gentlemen assume that an industrial area is certainly not contaminated, without otherwise being measured? Who will develop the infrastructure? Because it has not been said, my honourable fellow Member, that there will not be a channel, but I asked the question of who will develop the infrastructure. Infrastructure is not just a network of sewers, water or electricity. Infrastructure means transport infrastructure. Then think of it when the Kopaszi dam is ingested, and that part of South Buda will stop from a transport point of view because there is no proper transport infrastructure. And yes, infrastructure is school, kindergarten, and I could tell you more. So I didn't say it wouldn't happen. That was my question, and if you can answer that, I would like to thank you very much for who is going to create them, and most of all from what source. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-271	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-03-272	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I pushed the button because I wanted to respond briefly to Mr Csárdi's speech, because this debate is going in the wrong direction, or you may not want to say very bad things, but you are saying what you want to say very badly. Can't you seriously think that, let's say, an investment or investment run by a private investor is now in parentheses that rust zone or non-rust zone is not carried out with proper preparatory work in accordance with the legislation, with official permits and after appropriate settlement and spatial planning? This is how it always happens, whether it's a rust-zone investment or not. There must be no situation where any investment in contaminated areas is under way. He made references to this. I would like to ask you to stop this because you are taking this debate in a very wrong direction. Of course, you are absolutely right that these investments, especially when it comes to the type of investment that there is no living environment there at the moment, because there is a rust field there and we would like to bring a residential environment there, then they will have certain urban needs, transport, kindergartens, schools, health institutions, and all the service portfolios you mentioned are needed. This is precisely why we have this proposal before us, because we cannot determine it here, because every investment, each individual area, is different, and in all areas the state, the municipalities, several municipalities, for example, the metropolitan districts, plus the private investor, must cooperate and agree. The project must also be commercially sustainable and successful, and it must also serve the public interest. That is very clear from the bill. I don't understand why we're going in these crazy directions. There's only one excuse that it's 2:30 in the morning, but I don't think we're gonna use that as an excuse. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-06-03-273	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csárdi asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-274	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Deputy Minister, The thing is, it's 2:30 because you're in this law, which, by the way, [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: But it's not a problem for me that it's 2:30!]] It would be a real success story if it were well written and not so lousy, so you placed it on the agenda for this date. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This could have made a success propaganda, which, in any case, would have stopped. But the fact is that this law is about the designation and establishment of the rust zone action areas, and the rust zone is also included in the name of the rust zone, because there was a typical industrial activity there. And industrial activity, we know precisely that unfortunately, the previous system, because of the economic characteristics before the regime change, was in a way that was seriously polluting. And, yes, since the change of regime, there has not been a government that has managed to overcome these consequences. Yes, please, I very much sympathize with the approach outlined by the Deputy Minister, but I am sure that the zeroth step is that, for example, local governments or local authorities, instead of expressing their views, they have agreed to do so, because then I believe that the government is committed to not doing so against legitimately elected city management, let us say putting some or two in a position. Yes, as long as there is no answer to how my fellow Member Böröcz dares to state that none of these future, even unmarked, rust zones are contaminated [[László Böröcz: Who said that?]] We can't move on until then. There are two options. Either my fellow Member knows or part of what areas will be designated [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes.]] I'd like to see the test reports that looked into the contamination of the area. I don't think we expect miracles. There is a need for cooperation, indeed, in order to achieve a common goal such as the revival of rust zones, which would be quite natural in a normal world. But to do so, you should know that those extra developments that are otherwise missing from this law, including the right to be recultivated, are or will be implemented from what source, because I am afraid, and this reality on this issue is that it is not possible to profitably boost a city district, a residential block, if the area under it is to be recreated for thousands of billions of forints. Yes, my fellow Member, Nacsa, the fact is that when the contamination of the Scented Road BVM was discovered, it was also revealed that there were several such areas in the country. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: That's right!]] I just want to signal it. If I say the data correctly, I would like to ask Mr Deputy Minister to confirm that the recultivation of these areas would cost thousands of billion forints nationwide. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán nods.]] [[1.40]] I believe that the basis for a rust-zone development is indeed that I would like to see the area designation and the authentic test data for the designated area. I remember when on Scented Road it was government communication and I didn't tell you which government was there that there was no pollution. It's a long story. I remember because, in this Scented Road story, János Bácskai participated in the IX. The former mayor of the district took part and, among other things, thanks to him, at least the pollutants were transported by Krisztina Baranyi, current mayor of Ferencváros. And I think that, in this context, it is possible to see exactly what a serious failure there is for governments, and we also see how seriously responsible it is for, for example, the author of this bill, because there are no guarantees in this bill, but not only that there are no guarantees, but also that it does not impose obligations of sufficient weight on the participants; but it is very loose because it is indeed here in the bill that 42 days is sufficient for the remedial procedure. Well, I'd be surprised. Such an examination alone cannot take 42 days. And I think we should know what they're trying to base these plans on. As long as it hangs in the air, as long as there are no tangible answers to basic questions, the question of recultivation, the question of infrastructure or fair cooperation with local governments, I certainly will not, but the May Other Politics will not support it, because on the basis of this law, no one who is serious about the country or, where appropriate, the city's leadership will not be able to take on this responsibility. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-275	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-03-276	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure the problem is the way I'm talking about this thing, and we can't come to terms with it, so I'm gonna try to tell you something else that I just tried to say. What you're saying, I don't know, I'm very fond of a game called relation analysis, it's true, so statement A is true, statement B is true, but there's no correlation between them, so the lack of correlation is the problem at the moment. So what you are saying about the bill is true, what you are saying about the costs of recultivation of contaminated areas... There are many estimates, there are many impact assessments in many areas, these are very scattered things, but in terms of scale we are probably not far from the reality when we talk about the amounts you have mentioned. However, there is no direct link between the two things, because the bill is about the fact that there are areas where there is no such contamination, this is officially justified, there is a seal and there is a certificate that the problem you are saying is not there, but it is also a rust zone, and the investment can start. Here the investment must begin, and here the tax relief and the lighter rule system, which is a highlight for the national economy, is attractive for an investor. And then there's this other story that you're telling, but these are handled separately by the bill, right, mid- and long-term recultivation projects. There the problems you mentioned are raised, but they cannot be prepared in a dog race, because there it is necessary to prepare, there it is necessary to rethink, there it is necessary to develop a business structure that is suitable for the investor, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the state is involved. So it's a much more complicated story, so we'll be able to spend the next few years and decades here together. However, if someone would like to codify this distinction in a bill, which I have done, then it must be done in this way, because we cannot at the moment lay down more details than regulation, and the guarantees which you have mentioned are included in other sectoral legislation. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-03-277	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have a series of two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-278	Thank you very much. I also saw the light in the Secretary of State saying that Mr Csárdi did not understand this, or that what he said came down to me. So you're setting up this bill as if you're gonna have to start building a residential park on Scented Road tomorrow, yeah, no, 42 days from now, on the 43rd day, you're gonna have to start building a residential park on Scented Road. There have been many, several projects in Budapest at present, and this has been revealed by real estate developers in recent weeks, since Secretary of State Fürjes and Minister Gulyás talked about this project, which is already in the pipeline, which is already in the preparatory phase, only because of the crisis caused by the corona virus, these projects have been interrupted during the preparatory phase, where the impact assessments have already been carried out, the measurements have already been carried out, otherwise they are already in the planning process, and these are essentially immediately, if the Parliament were to adopt this law, if the government decree could be issued on it and the zone was designated, it could start immediately and contribute to this year's economic figures, but most obviously to the economic figures for next year. This is what the bill is primarily about, and this is the most important element that already exists in the tube, which can be started immediately, and these are public and real estate developers are talking about it. This could be an important tool. Then there are the more difficult problems that you have been talking about, but don't make it look like this is what this bill is originally about, or above all this bill, which takes longer time, will obviously consume a lot of budget resources, demand settlement plans, need local government cooperation on these issues, which will be difficult areas, loaded areas that can be solved. But there is, for example, what they have started before, for example, what the VIII. District previous, pro-government leadership of Sára Botond, the beach and thermal bath in the area behind the former Józsefváros railway station, you also know that area well. Such an investment, which was also prepared, was also well drilled, if I remember correctly. There are a lot of these projects going on, these will be the immediate ones. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And we'll have to find a solution to what you're talking about later. Thank you.
u2020-06-03-279	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go, Congressman, in two minutes.
u2020-06-03-280	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congressman Csárdi, I don't know where you got it or how you interpret my sentences. I do not want to repeat the words of the Secretary of State, but I said that there are two types of areas: one for which the immediate Rusty zone designation takes place, and the other for the medium and long term, and I did not say in one word that there are virtually no areas to be recultivated, you just said, you just said that. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] I really do not want to repeat the speakers before me here at 2:00 a.m., but I think that the bill is quite precise and clear, and that is what we have said for many of the time here that there are areas in which investment or preparation can be started in a relatively short time, and there are areas that require long-term, even multi-annual, even longer-term preparatory work to start any investment there at all. With regard to the construction of the infrastructure, of course, for each such project, as the Secretary of State said, the areas are so different, that it is necessary to examine separately how it will be economically rational, at all, to find a private investor, as I have already mentioned, who can do this under such conditions, and, of course, also to build the housing block, the residential area and the residents belonging to it. [[1.50]] Therefore, the conditions provided by law, the benefits provided by law, are included in it to involve these areas and to make investors interested in making these investments even if they are able to do so in a relatively easier way than immediate rust zones and even if they otherwise require greater preparation in the long term.
u2020-06-03-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi in two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-282	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr Deputy Minister, since the bill does not contain it, please give three examples in an area that is clean and can start the investment and which can be involved or will be included in this Rusty Zone classification. I think the question here is the guarantees. A lot of things can be said, if I remember correctly, Mr Deputy Minister said that there is a stamp on it that the area is not contaminated. I would like to know what limit values the government is working on, why these limits are not laid down in this bill, and if you already know which areas are affected, please inform me, too, because you would be very interested. I think that it is possible, in practice, to argue directly on such a proposal if we are all aware of what we are discussing. I say, and this is what my fellow Member Böröcz misunderstood, that where industrial activity took place, these are called rust zones, there is a very little likelihood that there has been no pollution at all. But I'm open, I'll take it if you say it's sealed. We just want to see what limits the seal paper can be accepted with, because seal paper is a matter of seal and paper, but we need more than that. We need guarantees, just as we need guarantees for cooperation with the municipality. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz... [[László Böröcz says no.]] The congressman doesn't want to speak. Dear Parliament, Then I would like to ask you once again that someone else would like to take the floor under the item on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Yes.]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-06-03-284	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Very briefly. So in the debate, it was agreed that these brown areas and rust zones, which, by the way, because of urbanisation, urbanisation, technological progress, have been in a position over the last century or a few decades in which they have been in a position, so the reconnecting of these areas to urban life is a public interest that makes legislation justified. In addition to the return of these areas to urban life, there are a number of arguments, since they are not located on the outskirts of the city, they are not located in the agglomeration, but in general on tissues close to the city and in other respects. They're outgrown by the city, so they're actually missed zickers, untapped opportunities. We see everywhere in the world that special rules are being established for these areas by the legislator or by means of special incentive mechanisms to support investment in these areas. In this general picture, the coronal virus epidemic has given the story another twist, as it is crucial to give construction and economic growth a boost, which is also appropriate as the proposal has been made here. I would particularly and once again stress the idea of reducing VAT. Several times in the debate, a little in response to the government's social policy objectives, how the housing situation stands. The government's position has been clear from the first minute since 2010: we do not want tenants, we want owners. Therefore, we are supporting solutions, and this is also at the heart of our policy of access to housing, which brings people to property rather than forcing them into a long-term rental relationship. In addition, in the context of our demographic objectives, we want to implement and implement these programmes in such a way that there are very serious and good opportunities in the otherwise international comparison, even if this is related to family-creation and child-bearing. The issue of both housing and rental prices alone will now be based on a demand and supply curve. It is clearly influenced by demand, in this context also by the virus and the attitudes of young people in the use of housing appear to be a serious factor. The income they have, so the average wage level, is important in this, but more importantly, the supply side. By supporting these investments, these investments create housing, so the supply will increase, which in itself will have a price reduction or price increase brake effect, regardless of whether the State intervenes by means of public authorities or not, as required by you. We do not want the State to intervene by means of public authorities, because we believe that the requirements of a market economy must be met. Mr Csárdi and I have long tried to argue about the fact that we are talking about areas that are contaminated and therefore require other types of treatment, or areas that are not contaminated and therefore require easier attention, treatment and easier investment. Congressman Csárdi claims or fears that it is only the first types of areas, so which are contaminated, he has every right to say that in this case it must be a recultivation for the first time, which has a very serious need for resources, and this is a decades of work. He's right about that. My statement is, and this is the bill 1. I think that we can resolve this contradiction, and my statement is that we are dealing with such areas and areas. Such areas, i.e. where recultivation is needed due to pollution, are central and long-term rust areas. For which there is no such problem, they are immediate rust areas of action. The problem, the disagreement, the side-by-side narrative may be due to the fact that Mr Csárdi and the opposition speakers who spoke about it did not come from the definition of the law when they talked about rust, but from the generally accepted meaning of the words, they connected these areas to industrial activity. This problem is real, so I accept that this is a problem that makes it difficult to talk to each other, because these terms, legal institutions, these definitions, that are rust zones or brown fields, have so far not been included in the legal system. So for the first time, let's read what it means to be a rust area of action in a law. [[2.00]] So between the common, generally accepted meaning of words and the definition of law, it is fortunate to have overlaps. I think there's overlap here, but it doesn't cover a hundred percent of each other, because if you look at Congressmen on 1st floor, § 1 (a) what is the area of action in the rust zone, it says that it is a residential area with a transport, utility and institutional infrastructure or which can be used in a sustainable way, typically including a brownfield area, which is suitable for other purposes, as defined in the Government Decree issued under the authorisation of the law, whether or not it has been delimited. So it follows that there may be such an area and there may be such an area. In an area where there is a serious discharge task, it is a whole other thing, I agree with the criticisms, this scheme is not suitable, it needs a separate government programme and support, but it does not need to be included in the law, because otherwise the legal guarantees on this issue are known to everyone, they are still in place and are available, so there is no change, so there is nothing to regulate in a new law. In areas where such problems do not arise, however, we can explicitly create an investor-friendly environment by reducing VAT on the one hand and, on the other hand, maintaining the regulatory capacity of local authorities, using the statutory acceleration path for investments that are of major national importance. So I'd like to make one last misunderstanding go away. There is no situation here that existed in our previous debates, such as the Buda Palace, the City Park or the Citadel. This is not a central investment in which the need for regulation and full investment to be carried out by the State itself seems justified, but these are precisely areas where the accelerated course offered by the law on investments of major importance for the national economy is generally available, but in addition, the regulatory options of the municipalities are the general rules, i.e. the rules used for general investments of this type. Therefore, there is no need to fear that if the municipality does not want such an investment, it will not be possible. Once again, as in the previous bill, I ask the question that it makes sense that Citadel, in its current debauched state, would be subject to a ban on change by one of the municipalities, and then again there nothing would happen for decades. I don't think that makes any sense. Analogly, this bill makes sense that there is a municipality, there is a state intention, there is a private investor who would like to invest in the brownfield, which is the shame of every district, every part of the settlement, would you like to put it in order on a private basis, and then one of the municipalities would say that this project is not supported by him, but where you know he is opposed? The Good God sees his soul, they can do anything to combat this type of investment if it occurs, but ultimately I think that the aim of such investments in cooperation is to enable the people of Budapest, the people of the city and everyone, the municipalities, the state and the private investors to move into the homes as quickly, as possible, as quickly as possible, as possible, as properly as possible and as possible. This objective is supported by the bill, so in this context I would like to ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-03-285	I thank the Secretary of State for his detailed answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of yesterday's discussion of our agendas. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member, who believes, won 100 years after Trianon. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2020-06-03-286	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As a politician and historian, I believe that there are two things that should not be done with the past: sweeping under the carpet and thinking about it. On the mourning anniversary of Trianon, we usually make these mistakes. I'm experiencing two typical attitudes, one of which is perhaps the most harmful, which says that it's been so long, why bother with that, that we should get over this whole thing, and we have bigger problems to deal with. And the other attitude is to find out who is responsible for all those who suffer now, who are responsible. If we look at the omissions, mistakes and sins that have occurred in the last hundred years, unfortunately, the list is almost endless. There is the policy of the age of dualism, the blinding, narrow-minded ethnicity, and there is the responsibility of Mihály Károlyi, the Republic of the Council, with the Hungarian army released to the wind, who could not defend the country. The mistakes of Horthy era leaders could be mentioned in the fact that the country has drifted into the second world burn, but there is also the Kádár era, which, in the spirit of brotherly socialism and the eternal friendship of the peoples, has simply renounced the protection of the rights of millions of Hungarian citizens. It is not possible to leave without a word from József Antall to Gyula Horn, under the responsibility of the political elite of the system changer, when these governments concluded bilateral interstate contracts in a manner that did not have minimum guarantee conditions for self-determination in relation to foreign Hungarians. However, it is also possible to mention the omissions of the regime-shifting opposition. Unfortunately, at two o'clock in the morning, the pro-government benches remained empty, but it was precisely 30 years ago that the representatives of Fidesz left this House, the Trianon memorial. Then there is December 5th, 2004, the mournful dual citizenship referendum, when Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány urged against preferential localization. And we arrived a hundred years after Trianon to the Orbán government, when, after the announcement of the system of national cooperation, we are now at the point where, in the spirit of national exclusion, Hungarians from across borders are being bullied against Hungarians from the border, that everyone is a traitor, everyone who is not fidesz is a traitor. Ladies and gentlemen, A hundred years after Trianon, we managed to get to the point where we could point back and blame someone for all our misery, except ourselves, of course. What if, for once, we examined not only who was responsible for the mistakes made in the past, but what we could do together for a better future? Because Trianon is not only our past, but our present and our future, and Trianon cannot be forgotten or exceeded. We could learn from it and learn from it, but unfortunately, every year we get further away from it. While on the right and on the left we are concerned about who is not good enough Hungarian, who could be, who else should be excluded from this nation, so that we feel better, we do not realize that every day we are living the everyday lives of the little Trianons. Each Facebook comment, when we question the Hungarianness of one of our compatriots, or because he is a Soros agent, or because he is a fidesz, or because he is a fascist, or because he is a communist, or a non-border, or a cross-border, we sign the Trianon peace treaty in our imagination each time, and unfortunately it has a serious cost. If we want to reunite this nation, we'll have to raise ourselves first, and if we can, then we can call anyone else to account for it. But what can be expected from the current Hungarian government? I believe that there are four things: smart diplomacy and cultural policy facing reality, which spans government cycles and seeks consensus instead of division. A policy that actively and proactively takes action for the right to self-determination on all existing international scenes. A policy that not only considers the 2-3 million voters who vote for it Hungarian, but everyone who speaks the language of János Arany and Lőrinc Szabó in the Carpathian Basin or anywhere in the world. [[2.10]] A policy aimed at seeking allies and not vassals, and where political loyalty is not a prerequisite for political agreement to belong to the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, This would be a national policy worthy of all the blood sacrifices of the last hundred years. It's the only thing worth working for, but it's worth working for. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-03-287	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group asked for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-03-288	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Looks like something's over. The current situation, i.e. with reference to the coronal virus epidemic, will have been reduced by 6 June at the Hungarian State Railways, a so-called epidemiological agenda will be in place. One of the stakeholders will be the line 103 between Tiszafüred and Karcag; the rail link, which connects one of the busiest railway lines in the country, the 100 line with the priority tourist region, the capital of Lake Tisza, Tiszafüred. It appears that one of the first victims of the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic will be the line 103 between Karcag-Tiszafüred. On the line, the so-called "little red" has made the circles with varying intensity, and what is left of it will be a morning flight, a morning train couple leaving Karcag at 6:30 in the morning, and returning from Tiszafüred to Karcagra again. The main problem with this is that the public transport option is essentially lost in the area. The opportunity to get to Lake Tisza relatively quickly and briefly will be lost, and an opportunity that will replace the roads in very bad condition, which are in the vicinity of Lake Tisza, very often will be lost. It loses access to education and work for a lot of people. Unfortunately, it is not unprecedented to thinn the line or suspend the line or cancel it. There was another crisis when another government in its crisis management decided to again reach the line between Tiszafüred-Karcag. What kind of crisis management is it that everybody starts cutting down here? ! On 13 December 2009, public transport ceased on the line, and now, on 6 June 2020, it will cease again, regardless of whether there is only one train pair left, just in the name of some kind of transport. This was given by the government, even though it was the same government, who then evidently profited from political gain and reopened this line not quite ten years ago, on 4 July. I know that because I myself was at the reopening when the residents were still hoping that there would be meaning and content in this railway line. And yes, we know the arguments, they were the same in 2009 as they are now: few use them, we have to switch to the road, because there is a more economical crisis, and the same arguments are coming from the government that came from the then, otherwise left-wing government in 2009. So where is the difference, my fellow Members? The tone. And then allow me to give you a few more thoughts on this. While Europe is developing public transport, this government is destroying it. This destruction in my district is Karcag 20,000 and The 14,000 citizens of Tiszafüred are victims, and the 12,000 inhabitants of the villages are affected. For 120 years there has been rail transport between the two cities, Berekfürdő, Tiszaszentimre, Kunmadaras, Tiszaszőlős and Tiszagörvény. It does so by not having any meaningful dialogue or real consultation with the local authorities concerned and the association of small regions. There is no evidence that it is more economical to replace the railway line concerned with bus services. The reckless political decision does not take into account the fact that Karcag's hospital is responsible for the care of 100,000 people. These words, ladies and gentlemen, are not my words, but those of Sándor Fazekas speaking from the opposition from 2009. Will we ever hear the voice of Sándor Fazekas speaking on this subject again? Would you dare ask your own party partner, the current minister or secretary of state? Ladies and gentlemen, The citizens of Karcag and Tiszafüred are the new victims of the government, and the nearly 70,000 who live by the railway line are also victims. There are only a few questions left: why does the government want to deprive the citizens of Karcag and Tiszafüred of the educational and employment opportunities provided by the railway? How to be flexible and competitive if the government connects them to a clot, restores transport opportunities? Looks like something's over. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-03-289	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda, with a message from Trianon. Here you go.
u2020-06-03-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Trianon can't, no, never forget. Hundreds of years ago, the new national borders made the lives of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots and Hungarian families miserable, and they were separated from each other by the borders. And from World War I demanding a great deal of human sacrifice, we suffered further losses. As a result, Hungary's territory decreased from 283,000 square kilometres to 93,000 square kilometers, and the population fell from 18 million 200 thousand to 7 million 600 thousand. One in three Hungarian brothers came under the rule of a foreign nation. Agriculture also suffered sensitive losses, 43 percent of our arable land and only 13 percent of our forest areas remained in Csonka-Hungary. Of the major railway hubs and of the largest rural towns of 100 years ago, Bratislava, Košice, Subotica, Brasov and Timisoara were all under foreign rule. And my family personally experienced the consequences of Trianon, for my father's father, my grandfather, was born and raised in Timisoara, exactly. And, ladies and gentlemen, the numbers themselves are alarming, but personal human fates are even more heartbreaking. How many of our countrymen have had to leave their homeland because of their Hungarianness, eliminate everything that their ancestors have done with the hard work of centuries, start their lives again, come with two suitcases because of the mistakes of Hungarian people and the decisions of non-Hungarian people? ! It is history now, but in the words of Ferenc Herczeg: !" The world can never turn away from our thousands of years of inheritance in our hearts. Just as we can't give up our memory after a hundred, two hundred, or a thousand years. And let us also think about what is happening, what decisions have led to our national tragedy. It is our shared responsibility to learn from the past and not to make similar mistakes. It's up to us, and it's up to us to get more Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. So let us remember Trianon and trust that the Hungarian resurrection will come again. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 'Cause the water runs away, and all that remains is the stone, but the stone remains. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-03-291	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its work at 10:30 today. Meeting day's closed.
