u2020-07-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love on this beautiful, warm day. The 2nd meeting of the 3rd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Do not be fooled by the fact that on the left the notary pulpit is empty, but Mr Bence Tordai has applied for a speech before the agenda, and I will give him the floor accordingly. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The subtitle of my speech before today's agenda is why Minister for Finance Mihály Varga voted in favour of the Budget Amendment Package for Dialogue on Basic Income, because that is what happened this week on Monday. When we were able to vote on some of the opposition amendments to the budget, then the basic income amendment package requested by the Dialogue - surprisingly not only the left-wing parties, so in addition to the Dialogue, the MSZP and the DK faction [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't the Dialogue vote for Brenner Koloman?]] I thank them, but Minister for Finance Mihály Varga voted for it on behalf of Fidesz. We are very happy about this unexpected development, and I would like to find out why. The obvious nonsense is that the Minister of Finance would have accidentally voted in favour of the largest package of budgetary amendments in history, which was submitted to Parliament in Hungary. We voted in series on opposition amendments, and they also said who submitted them. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Even he laughs at his own speech.]] , and yet the Minister of Finance will certainly pay particular attention to the votes on the budget. In fact, if you're not a Member of Parliament, I'll tell you that we have ten seconds to vote, the vote that matches the pressed button flashes, so you can even correct if someone accidentally pushed it aside. Mihály Varga, therefore, had a good reason to vote in favour of the basic income budget, and this is what we have to figure out. He may simply have seen, as a good finance minister, that this large reorganization does not increase the budget deficit, but increases people's safety and standard of living, and has a positive impact on society and the economy at the same time, and decided, in this way, as a finance minister's responsibility, by way of derogation from the "no" issued by the group's yelling man, that he would vote for it. Or maybe he's a good politician and he wants to see what people want, and we can see that even before the crisis, nearly 70 percent of people supported the introduction of basic income in Hungary. Now, in the economic and social crisis following the corona virus epidemic, 80% of those who support us to introduce the basic income in Hungary. So four out of five Hungarians would introduce the basic income. But Mihály Varga may have looked at the good international practices that spread in the crisis, but even before that, for example, the helicopter money of the Trump government cannot be accused of being left-wing, or the same solution in Hong Kong. He may have looked at the Italian experience of introducing the basic income, where this institution has been in existence for a year, and now it has been expanded, he has seen that the Spanish Government has made the basic income available to nearly two and a half million people from 15 June. Perhaps you heard the voice of the Prime Minister of Scotland, who asked the British Parliament to allow Scotland to introduce the basic income or to read the Irish government program, where three parties agreed to commit themselves to the basic income and to launch extensive experiments based on previous examples. In fact, he may have been looking at Finnish experiments, where it turns out that basic income, if not increasing or reducing the willingness to work, at the same time improving people's physical and mental health, increasing confidence in institutions in other people, simply creating a happier, better country, and from experiments in other countries we know that it reduces, for example, early school leaving rates, reduces crime and the associated stress. I'm glad to have the Secretary of State of Tállai, who will obviously be able to tell us why Mihály Varga voted in this way instead of the Minister. Perhaps Mihály Varga looked into an earlier speech of indiscretion when he said that the basic proposal for a dialogue would be helicopter money. It is not nearly that, but it is true that it will reach seven million people out of ten million Hungarian citizens, guaranteeing that every child will receive at least HUF 50,000 in support and at least HUF 100,000 in income for each adult, but it will also result in the net minimum wage rising from the current 107,000 to almost HUF 60,000, to more than HUF 166 thousand, and from four and a half million employees to three million in income and income. So, he saw that the basic income was not aid, but a civic allowance, entitlement, which is the budgetary equivalent of our right to life, which guarantees that no one really stays alone, no one stays on the side of the road, no one stays without nothing, vulnerable in this world. He may be moved by human good intentions, which can indeed be in everyone, regardless of political convictions or world views, because this is supported not only by the left, but also by many conservatives and liberals. So I am very pleased that Mihály Varga has finally lined up for our basic income proposal and supported it with his vote during the budget negotiations. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Schmuck is applauding Elizabeth.]]
u2020-07-02-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to respond to your proposals on basic income, which again proves that you want to introduce an aid-based system against a work-based system. However it is twisted, that is the case, because the point of this type of solution is that it does not bind subsidies to work. You referred to international examples, Member, but if you look at the example in Finland, you see that one of these has been introduced and then you have failed badly, because even the domestic press staff, who are not sympathetic to the government, report that it has cost a lot of budget expenditure while not moving employment. The point is that your proposals would not link subsidies to work. Moreover, if we look at your other proposals, they would also raise taxes, which would lead to lower employment and higher unemployment, a return to the era of the left where unemployment was 12 percent. We are also interested in watching their speeches from the point of view that they are speaking in the spirit of having nothing but no responsibility, whereas they are sitting in responsible positions in many municipalities, especially in Budapest. There, they would have every opportunity to take measures to improve prosperity. Two things are already quite spectacular. One is that they use the capital as a stepping stone for their own party political purposes. There was little they could show for their promises or their fulfillment, but the buzz is already about Gergely Christmas becoming a candidate for Prime Minister. Now, let's stop here for a second. Because their leadership and decision-making skills are all explained by the way they handled the Lanchid case. I'm bringing this up because it tells me everything about how far they extend when they have to decide, when they have to act. Let's look at the facts. István Tarlós handed over the cash register in Budapest with a huge financial reserve. The capital has 180 billion in sovereign debt. This is the highest amount in Hungary, and you now claim that there is no money to renovate the Chain Bridge. It's all a big political bluff, which you can see from the fact that one of the deputy mayors admitted that he had the money, but it's just that he didn't have the public procurement on him. So, it's not the money that's missing, it's the intention, or what's so terrible, the ability to go through a normal public procurement. It's as simple as that. Everything else is just party politics, which is not in the interest of the Budapest people, but in the interest of a political group. [[8.10]] I would add, however, that there was where they had acted, but there was not much thanks in it, because, for example, during the epidemic bus services were thinned, while keeping distance was essential, vetoing the super hospital, using the special legal order to raise the wages of their own, and while referring to the lack of money, they decided to renovate the City Hall billionaire. And which has a fundamental impact on everyday traffic in the capital, traffic-slowing measures have been taken, bicycle lanes have been developed in a dangerous way, which further slows down the already weak traffic. I would like to ask you, Congressman, that the Party Dialogue has asked anyone about this in advance. For example, did you ask the commuters from the remote districts how they felt about all this? Did they ask you once they're called Dialogues? And we are already telling you that the parking charges will soon increase significantly. They're being traced back by being taller. They're taller! There's a kind of car chase going on, not the action movie kind, but a punitive one. That's your policy. The only thing we're asking is, if you're pursuing a policy like this, at least don't pin it all on the government. To sum up, and this also applies to wages, to their suggestions on livelihoods, we think that by Facebook posts, asphalt painting, complaining, hesitation and constantly pointing to others, you cannot lead a capital, but not even a small settlement. Honourable Congressman, In their election programme in Budapest, they promised one thing, that they wanted a city leadership that sought the solution rather than the excuses. Unfortunately, the attic was full of excuses, but I could say the basement was full. But with excuses, no future, no city, no country can be built. I think the election honeymoon is over, it's time for them to change their politics. Well, go ahead. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Erzsébet Schmuck has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, During the epidemic and after the epidemic, LMP has often pointed out that the Hungarian economy is not crisis-resistant, sustainable, radical restructuring is necessary, green reconstruction, green rotation, we cannot continue where the epidemic has left us. In recent times, we have seen that the European Union has also put green reconstruction at the heart of its programmes, and that the Union's policy of support is also being shaped. Climate protection has become a driving force for economic transformation, aiming to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, i.e. to emit as much CO2 as our green surfaces can absorb. In the spirit of green reconstruction, the European Union has also announced a programme from Earth to the table aimed at producing healthy food and thus protecting human health. According to this programme, the use of fertilisers and herbicides should be radically reduced by 2030 and the proportion of organic farming should be increased to 25 per cent. Unfortunately, the Fidesz government said no to both. It says no to the restructuring of the economy, green reconstruction, and considers it impossible to significantly reduce the use of fertilisers and herbicides by 2030 and to increase the proportion of organic farming to 25 percent. The government's position on the latter was recently published by István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture. At the same time, it has also become clear in recent years how vulnerable the Hungarian economy is, since both the driving sectors, the automotive industry and tourism have practically fallen in. It follows that new and different economic policies are needed. It was enough in the assembly country when the government kept wages low for years, dumbed down the quality of education and training, when small and medium-sized enterprises were still in the business of running. Unfortunately, in recent weeks, it is clear that the government is still pursuing its economic policy of bankruptcy, and it has no idea at all what kind of change of direction is needed. It spends money on oligarchs, continues to support the automotive industry, unnecessary large investment and the development of luxury hotels in tourism, instead of strengthening local economies and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. Over the past few weeks, the government has given billions of forints to develop luxury accommodations, while we know that there is a little more capacity in tourism in Hungary than it needs and that it has spent the same amount of money on the automotive industry. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You forgot the pensions in your speech!]] Audi has recently received billions of dollars in funding, while last year it gained HUF 700 billion in profits [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Can you close the car companies?]] Which, we know, you've taken out a significant part of the country. And what is particularly outrageous and infuriating is that I am very annoyed by the government's construction of MotoGP, the motor racing track, which he announced. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Would you like to close Hungaroring as well?]] that he wants to build a motor race track in Hajdúnánás from HUF 65 billion by 2023.
u2020-07-02-6	Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-02-7	This money would certainly be needed in a lot of other places. The question is that, in the midst of a social and economic crisis, such an engine race path must be built. It's frivolous and funny! When announced, no details were given of the impact on the economic life of the region, the environmental effects it will have, the nature destruction it will have. Of course, you say it's good, but you haven't answered these questions. They did not make public what economic calculations were made, nor did they make public the environmental impact assessment of this. You spend money on unnecessary and such investments instead of protecting people's jobs, supporting people who have lost their income. We know that such a racetrack is similar to Formula One, actually a traveling circus. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Can you close that, too?]] You also love it and support it. We should consider this, which is why we have asked Minister Palkovic questions and we are waiting for answers as to why the MotoGP course is being built. These unnecessary investments are not needed; instead, a crisis-resistant, sustainable economy should be built. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is, he touched on a number of topics in his speech. Allow me to start by saying that the Hungarian government's commitment to climate change cannot be called into question, because many of our actions and many of our decisions show true commitment. In fact, the Hungarian government has put much more on the table on green and climate protection than a number of loud countries that try to make themselves green and put much, much more on the table than left-wing parties that have tried to paint themselves green in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Just because we call something green doesn't mean anything, it's just a game of words, it doesn't mean any progress in adapting to climate change, and it doesn't bring any advantage with it. It is also surprisingly strange when, over and over again, they try to turn such an important issue into a political issue in which they try to confront the Hungarian people, the various social groups, with the government, while it is a question that defines the future of our children, our offspring, and it would therefore require cooperation and cooperation. And, honourable Member, let us not forget that the fact that you, who call yourselves the Green Party, have demonstrated several times in recent times that you support a lot of things, but not the most important green issues. [[8.20]] They do not support turning the Mátra Power Plant green, turning it into climate friendly [[Erzsébet Schmuck intervenes.]] They do not support the development of otherwise climate-friendly nuclear energy, nor do they support otherwise environmentally friendly rail development. There is a long list of issues with which the Hungarian government will show how to build a climate-friendly economy, how to create improvements that will strengthen the economy, increase employment, create jobs, and otherwise contribute to the future from a social and climate perspective, and you are constantly sweeping down these issues. And the same is the case when we look at political issues. It was you who initiated a climate debate day, but then didn't come to it; it was you who initiated a climate law, but then didn't vote for it; it was you who initiated a parliamentary decision to take action on climate change, and then didn't vote for this resolution. What you can see is that you are constantly interested in trying to use this issue for loud political actions from which you will slowly withdraw. And if you look at it, the same thing happens in Budapest, where they had a loud political point on this issue, and compared to that, we see nothing, but nothing happened in this area in Budapest either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He also threw up on us why we support investments such as the MotoGP track. Allow me to inform you that this is an important development, a development that will provide work for 4000 people in the region where these jobs are needed during the investment period. And when this career is opened, we expect that it will only increase by 900 people because of this development, employment for many years or decades. In this region, Congresswoman, it does matter, it is an important development. It is also an important development because it will be a multi-functional, economically operated, modern, competitive track, which will be able to accommodate even MotoGP runs, but it will also be complemented by countless other developments and will also place this region on the world map of vehicle manufacturing. Cooperations and developments with the University of Debrecen that Hungarians do need, this is a serious opportunity for them, who live in the region. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Varju of the DK Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-11	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I see that here the pro-government representatives and the respondents welcome Budapest to their mouths, so let's see what you really are doing. Let us begin by saying that this is where the budget debate takes place, and, on the basis of your views and decisions here, money is apparently being taken from the municipalities, so that it will not remain for the support of the population. Health care is rejected in such a way that wage development there is essentially driven out of health care, or a proposal has been voted out when administering infectious meningitis or other similar vaccines which could cost a family HUF 300,000 and do not support it. Meanwhile, I have a small package in front of me under the title of public waste, and I need years of litigation in order to see what you spend the HUF 50,000 million spent on Felcsút. They hide and hide it from people, while making bad decisions on important matters that directly affect people. And in the meantime, what is ideology? I quote Viktor Orbán to you: "It was very difficult for me to make political decision-makers understand that this is more than money. It's not about collecting taxes, and then handing them back, and then chasing the local or national leaders. What is important is that the relationship between the business world and the five team sports is established quickly, which, by the way, has been built naturally in the last 50 years in the West. The way to help this is not to seek glory for the government, not for the local mayor, but to let and even motivate businesses and sports organisations to look for each other. The numbers are very encouraging. Orbán said. And the system began to work; this system bore 50 000 million forints on Felcsút, but now let's not just mention them, let's see what happened in Newpesten! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In the local hockey department, while the department receives Tao money of 60-70 million forints a year, so it spends public money on hockey clubs and hockey clubs, it pays the same clubs with families and children. They draw money from it twice: once, when it is not purchased directly from the manufacturer, it is a local entrepreneur who buys it, overpricedly sells it to the sports association, and then the sports association pays for these tools and jerseys with the parents. What an insolence this is happening here! ? Are you surprised that the parents were outraged and otherwise filed charges? And where's the result of the report? They're covering it up. That's what you do when you use public money. You have no right to hold anyone accountable and to condemn others as long as you do this institutionally and systematically. But that's not the end of the story. In Újpesten, a HUF 1 billion investment in the ice hall was started at the sports site near Szilágyi út. The HUF 1 billion investment in the ice hall became HUF 6 billion investment by Lőrinc Mészáros. This investment contains two halls, an ice hall, true, without bleachers and viewers, and a curling hall. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. At the moment, we're talking about no construction, no contractor, everybody's pulling out of there, abandoned construction, and one of the halls' contracts was modified by December, while there was no cutting of a hoe there. Is this how you manage? Do you think that this is the responsible management of public funds? And in a sense, let me, of course, return to the Hungarian sport that you finance in this way. What you're doing with sports support is infinitely outrageous, the greatest crime you've ever committed against children, putting them in such a dirty environment, and seeing how you're otherwise using these money. And, of course, there is the earlier quote; you can see that the fish reeks of its head. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2020-07-02-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You've touched on a number of topics, so allow me to disprove from point to point what you've brought up against the government. You said that next year's budget should be spent more on health care. Next year's budget will spend 156 billion forints more on health than this year, so you can vote for the budget tomorrow, honourable Member. If you compare it to the last budget you adopted, you'll find a 77 percent surplus in it for health purposes. You also claimed that next year the municipalities will manage less. This is an important argument that it is indeed worth a lot of work on mathematics education in Hungary, because this year there will be HUF 739 billion expenditure in the budget for municipalities and HUF 857,8 billion in the next year, which means that HUF 118 billion is more; this is a 16 percent increase, so it is not withdrawal, it is less in the budget, honourable Member, but a surplus. So much for math. In connection with Újpest, the mayor said that László Varju will discuss the local government work on a daily basis. Of course, there could be a positive side to this, but what happens in the Újpest municipality while you discuss it on a daily basis, as the mayor says? [[8.30]] Who became the head of the local practice? Ungár Klara. That, no, he was able to return, an old known politician on the left. And who, at first, seemed to be a person dealing with legal advice in the municipality, and then later they communicated that no matter how much he was an intern in a law firm, they were counting on his work as a communications specialist in the mayor's office? Márton Gréczy, Zsolt Gréczy, the son of your party partner, his former groupmate. That's how you've been doing things since you came to power, in Newpesten, putting old left-wing politicians and your own family in a fast position. You are the Che Guevara of the opposition movement against Tao. He speaks very emotionally both in the courts and here in Parliament, and he does call the camp of left-wing young Guards to battle against a non-existent problem from week to week, because there are both left- and right-wing Guardsmen in it, so at the head of the joint, united guard, you are fighting Tao Support as Che Guevara. But you're here in a vegan burger as a meatcake. [[Defiance.]] Because if you look around for a moment, honourable Member, if you look at the local government world or wink at Brussels with your left eye, you will also see that you are truly alone in this fight. Because what is the terrible trap in your anti-tao campaign over the past few years? What is the terrible trap in attacking the Tao system for small-time, short-term political gain? And that's what happens when we open up the perspective a little bit. You've been attacking the Tao system for weeks, months, years. But what do the municipalities do? They don't trust anything else about their own sports development, when they have to renovate a local sports hall, renovate local athletes' dressing rooms, or renovate the field, or when they have to offer young people a vision of their future, and they want to achieve better results in sports either in the county championship or in the national championship, everyone does nothing but gathers tao resources; the mayors on the left too. And they're taking photos of them on Facebook showing how they've collected Taosources for local sports associations like this, smaller or larger. All your local politicians trust is that they can develop from Tao. The system you're attacking here, posted by your mayors on Facebook, wherever you can, is being used, exploited, because that's how you can help people. A person who has direct responsibility for people is much more in favour of the Tao system. The other half of this veggie burger is Brussels. Honourable Congressman, Brussels has authorised the Tao system for six years. How can it not be transparent? How could there be any kind of violation problem with him if your close ally, even Brussels, couldn't get involved, and you said it was a transparent, regular, legal system? You will allow six years under this scheme, honourable Member. So this is a pretty strong trap situation in my opinion, and short-term political thinking shows that there is no perspective in the long term. As far as the specific issue is concerned, honourable Member, what you have mentioned in Újpesten, and let me say that this is not a problem relating to Tao subsidies that you raised, but you have acquired resources from Tao support, so far the part of the Tao system has been closed, and then it is suspected that it has not been dealt with properly. But it's not a Tao issue, it's a simple, federal or association management issue, that after what they got from Tao, they've been legally accounted for, they've closed the Tao section for what it was used for. They're actually investigating this case, but it's not related to the Tao system. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-02-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the MSZP Group, Ms Zita Gurmai applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-02-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. All over the world, more and more attention is given to preventing and eliminating violence against women. As a woman, as a mother and as a politician, I feel it is my duty to treat this issue in accordance with the weight of the Hungarian legislation. The reality is that if it were up to the Fidesen, no one would talk about the violence of relationships. I ask you, why? Unfortunately, tragedy has to happen in order for the public to notice this problem. Such a tragedy was the case of a woman who had a mate, who was mutilated by a doctor with corrosive fluid. Such a tragedy was last August when a 35 - year - old man in Buda killed his partner and their four - year - old child. A man in Győr strangled his 13-year-old foster daughter and his ten-year-old son last December. A few days ago, we read that another man assaulted his ex - wife during a dispute and tried to stop him from calling the police and then smashed his cell phone. I didn't self-indulgently classify these terrible cases, but to keep them from being forgotten. And these are just the ones that got in the papers. There are many more cases that no one will know about, not the authorities, not the media, not anyone. In this situation, we simply cannot remain silent! I do not dispute that steps have been taken against domestic violence in Hungary as well. Under pressure from international events and opposition, the government has really started to deal with the issue. The year of victim support was announced, relations violence in the Criminal Code became a stand-alone fact, conditions of conditional release were tightened, and the number of victim support centres began to increase; it was handed over in Pécs, Minister, who spoke about it yesterday. But you also have to see that this is far from enough. We can see that the number of cases of violence has not decreased in recent years, but has even increased during the Covid period. This proves, however, that the measures taken are far from enough. Many in the pro-government benches believe that everything is okay, and domestic laws provide adequate protection. That is a misconception I would like to deny by fact. Hungarian legislation discriminates between people who are not yet living together with their partners and those who are no longer living together. There is no basis for this, and there are even harmful consequences. Authorities often force beaten women to mediate. What reconciliation is it where victims are punished, as opposed to those they fear. The institution of distance does not provide adequate protection. And it is tragic that the abusive parent abuses the right of contact, which is used for intimidation, revenge, or simply does not pay child support for revenge, which is one of the common types of economic violence, giving the Hungarian men a bad look. The Hungarian legal order cannot handle these situations. What's the solution? It's right in front of you. During the debate on the Budget Act, I made a proposal for an amendment, and we also consider it important to establish a system of women's and family protection based on the child protection signalling system, listening to the professional proposals of civil society organisations. What do you need for that? We need to eliminate duplications, dysfunctions of jurisdiction. The responsibility of the members of the signalling system should also be strengthened and the failure to signal should be subject to strong and secure sanctions. Let's consider this a threat, as it is. All this requires an anti-violence coordinator who develops the concept of extending the signalling system and puts the relevant bill on the table of the government and Parliament within four months. We know that if Fidesz wants it, he's already passed a two-thirds law in one day. So don't tell me that's not enough time, please, you want it. The coordinator's further task may be to remedy the problems of cooperation between the guardianship office, the court and the members of the signalling system, or, in the case of legislative amendments, to negotiate. The coordinator may also have a continuous role to play in the development, organisation and control of educational, training programmes for members of the signalling system. This is the only way to reduce domestic violence, the anti-violent coordinator in the budget and in the public administration, to be placed under the Equal Treatment Authority. This programme can be implemented with a budget of HUF 3 billion. The question, my fellow Members, is that it is worth it to you to prevent further tragedies. Hungary is eager to hear their answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2020-07-02-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Gurmai Zita, on behalf of the Government, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you very much for listing in your speech the results that the government and the current Parliament have been able to achieve since 2010; so that in the Criminal Code, this Parliament, this government, has introduced the facts of the violence in relations, offering increased protection to victims and giving the perpetrators more serious punishment. [[8.40]] The construction of the victim support system has also been mentioned. Indeed, this week we handed over the fourth victim support centre in Pécs, which serves regional development. The Minister also announced that, in the foreseeable future, we would like to create such ones in every county seat, so that we do not have to present their own grievances to the victims in an official forum, but that they can be informed in a more informal form of information about the possibility of using police or victim assistance in office or government office, what opportunities they have in relation to children, in connection with the regulation of contacts. Here, too, significant progress has been made in the past period. The congresswoman mentioned the unfortunate cases of serious injury, even death, which really shocked the wider public in front of the press. It can be seen that we have also tried to give immediate answers to these, that Parliament has recently adopted a re-regulation of communication in such cases, how to better filter the signal system in time, by the time such a perpetrator comes out, the topic of communication or even the issue of distance control will be fully regulated. Working groups have been set up to analyse these cases with the broad involvement of civil society organisations, for example within the framework of the Human Rights Task Force, to collect proposals on the part of professional organisations in this matter. We know that the meeting itself could not be continuous because of the Covid epidemic, but the written communication was continuous, the deadlines were lifted, so everyone could make their proposals without a deadline. I very much hope that there can be a substance from this that points in the direction that the Congresswoman has also suggested on how to eliminate duplication, interference with cooperation. We also have before this House the bill for tightening conditional release, which we will be able to discuss and accept in the autumn, which also serves to limit and narrow down these situations. Unfortunately, there are indeed situations, human behaviours that inevitably bring such acts with them from time to time, which need to be narrowed down as much as possible; of course, I would also like to talk about their elimination, but unfortunately we cannot be naive, unfortunately the human factor cannot be eliminated in these cases. There have been some references to previous cases, such as what happened with the corrosive fluid. Just this week, we have read that the Curia has assessed this case at the highest level, has not eased the punishment, so strict punishment and criminal policy can prevail, and in all such cases there will be appropriate punishment. The congresswoman mentioned that the police make a distinction as to where the violence begins. One thing we can rest assured: that the Hungarian Criminal Code provides adequate protection to all Hungarian citizens or even foreign citizens in the event of every violent crime, so even if the relationship cannot be established, no acts of violence can remain without punishment. The reason I wouldn't get involved in these professional details is because obviously law enforcement authorities, the prosecution, the court, have to decide on these things, and every case is different. I very much hope that the work that is still going on and I say that it has been going on intensively since 2010 will lead to the greater results. I can also confirm that we are competing in all kinds of international comparisons and that we endure those comparisons, that we have introduced all the measures that are either in the other Member States of the Union, and that our statistics are not worse than anything else, and that there is no significant correlation in the context of the various international conventions, but how internal law regulates these issues. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Péter Jakab, Head of the Group, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, With regard to next year's budget, the Minister of Finance recently said something that even I would have been happy if I didn't know he was lying. The Minister of Finance said that the Hungarian Government does not believe in austerity, but that the burden of Hungarians should be reduced. Very good. Then why don't you reduce it? We, Jobbikos, have suggested that Hungarian workers earning below average income tax be exempt from the payment of personal income tax, which could leave up to HUF 40-50 000 more in the pocket of Hungarian workers. That you don't support it, we're used to it, but not even your own proposal? Last November, the Minister of Finance spoke about the fact that in 2021 a large-scale tax reduction could occur in Hungary, meaning that personal income tax would be reduced from 15 percent to 9 percent. Now, that's what there's no sign of in the 2021 budget, everything's going to be the same, so let's just tax the Hungarian, right, Mr. Secretary of State? Have something to renovate the hotels of the Butchers for 77 million HUF per room! What you people are doing is absolutely amazing, fellow Members. Meanwhile, wages are only planned to increase by 7 percent, by 7 percent when food has only increased by 9 percent in one year. This is going to be very thin, fellow Members, very thin! Not to mention pensions. Three percent pension increase? Plus a week's pension? Is this your glorious retirement policy? Before the elections, vouchers and potatoes, and after the elections, three percent increase, is this how the elderly solve the shopping, the overhead, the medical bills, and the rest? If pensioners were important to you, there would be a differentiated pension increase in your budget, and there would be a programme for men 40, so that men can retire after 40 years of work. What is more, in the current situation, they could also retire those over 60 who lose their jobs because of the crisis, but you are not even able to do so. You expect someone on the street at the age of 60 to come in line in front of the employment centre and then find a job; if you don't, you're going to be a public worker or a soldier. Very humane, very Christian, I can tell you. They're tightening up the local government. Austria, which you always refer to as a positive example, allocates EUR 1 billion to local economic recovery between municipalities. You are doing the exact opposite, you are taking money away from the municipalities, you are taking money away from the authorities; obviously, above all, from the opposition, because we see that the pro-government settlements, such as Kisvárda, can be helped by various extraordinary state aids. Let's just say that there is nothing else here but that you are punishing by budgetary means the settlements that dared to say no to you in the municipal elections. By the way, from this failure, you could have come to the conclusion that you might want to steer normally, but you chose to punish me instead. And, of course, they're still stealing thousands, now not just money, but parts of the country, see Balaton! You eat public money, eat the country. Why? That's because they can. Because they can. The European Commission has just published a survey of corruption, which shows that 90 percent of Hungarians believe that corruption has ensnared this country, simply saying that Hungarians think that you are stealing this country. That's a very devastating conclusion. What is even more devastating, however, is that only 38 percent of Hungarians are really disturbed, and this is truly disappointing to me. Because when the news is that you are pocketing billions of dollars through all kinds of overpriced public investment, you are actually doing nothing but literally taking money from Hungarian employees, taking money from Hungarian pensioners, taking away kitchen money from those who need every single forint to survive. That's why there's no money to raise pensions, raise wages, health care and education. Thirty years after the change of regime, we are saying that we Hungarians are the second poorest nation in the European Union, and that our government is the second most corrupt of the two, obviously there is some connection, because the Hungarians' money is there for you, and will remain there until only 38 percent of the Hungarians are disturbed. One thing is certain: we, Jobbikos, are deeply disturbed because we say it is a sin to steal, especially from the poor, and that is exactly what you are doing: they are robbing one of the poorest nations in Europe, they are looting Hungarians as Hungarians, and that is what there is no forgiveness for, especially not in ours, not in the besties. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-02-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[8.50]]
u2020-07-02-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, I sense that in the last six months, you've been in charge of the work in your party, because you made the most impossible allegations. This has been the case in the last six months and so in his speech before the current agenda. Allow me to share some facts with you both in relation to the budget, the situation in the labour market and the policy of the government that you mentioned. On the one hand, we must note your criticism of the budget that thanks to the good Lord, the Hungarian people deserve to be praised, because, we think, the successes that the country has been able to achieve over the past ten years could not have been achieved without the performance of the Hungarians. I would therefore urge you to be cautious, although it is not my place to take a stand on this issue when you criticise Hungarian citizens and voters. In addition to disagreeing with you, I think it may not be a good political strategy. In any case, we believe that the successes of the last ten years are the success of all Hungarians, and this has created the opportunity to start a stable economic basis in the control of the coronal virus epidemic. We believe that in the control of the Crown Virus, stable economic funds must be used to prepare for the later stages of the control of the disease, because, in addition to the success of the first phase of the disease control in international comparison, we must be prepared to see that it may be difficult later. Therefore, this budget should be a budget for the control of the epidemic, a budget for protecting jobs and re-launching the economy. If you look at the data, it's pretty clear that's what this is about. We spend more than 2500 billion forints on economic protection, protection against epidemics, health care, health insurance, 3000 billion forints. You may think that families, pensioners, simple entrepreneurs, employees are not part of the Hungarian nation, but are some sort of right-wing oligarchs, because in fact, your speech creates something like this, but we believe that the Hungarian government and the budget adopted by the Hungarian Parliament should support these social groups. Retirementes, family members, people in need, people in wages and salaries, small and medium-sized enterprises. See if you can find all the relevant items in the budget. For example, we spend the most on family support across the European Union in proportion to GDP, now we are 4.5 percent of GDP. Health spending is also rising, spending in the future, so education expenditure is increasing steadily, which is an increase of HUF 784 billion since 2010. It may not mean anything to you, but we believe that the millions of pensioners who live in this country are important that what the leftists have taken away from them is the left who is currently in opposition and to whom you have joined, we can give it back to them. We therefore consider it important to rebuild the 13th month pension. The budget funds for this are also available in the next year's budget for HUF 77 billion, while the budget funds for the payment of the pension premium for 2020 are also worth HUF 53 billion. So we think these are important items. In addition, the tax reduction policy will continue. You may have missed your notice, but the amendment that meant a reduction in contributions and, in fact, a further 2 percentage points of contributions entered into force on 1 July. In practice, the employer's burden has fallen by half compared to 2010. In addition, we provide wage support for Hungarian businesses, not on the basis of one or two entrepreneurs and not on the basis of political colour, in connection with the protection against the coronal virus, but we provide support for all entrepreneurs, thus protecting over 1 million 300 000 jobs. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience. If I may, I would only suggest that you stop faking news production and retransmission of false news, because believe me that both the Hungarian people and the remaining better voters would appreciate this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-02-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Földi, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a speech from the KDNP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Because it's plastic. Anyone who has lived more than fifty summers, like me, remembers this boring television commercial slogan from the late '70s, from the early '80s. Plastic was then a symbol of progress, usefulness, reliability and modernity in general. Compared to other traditional materials, it opened huge horizons. Without plastic, there would be no countless products, tools, machines or services that make our lives safer and more comfortable. However, this is only one side of the coin. The second is that it has become apparent over the last 30-40 years: the excessive production, distribution, purchase and use of plastic products causes an unbearable environmental burden. Single-use plastics, therefore non-recyclable, immediately become waste. The solution is clear: it's the best garbage they don't make. And pollution, like viruses, knows no borders, and therefore the global problem needs to be matched with a global solution. A Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council was adopted in 2015 and 2019 which states that the number of lightweight plastic carrier bags and other plastic products should be reduced. It's not because there's going to be trouble, it's because there's trouble. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's Government and Fidesz-KDNP are committed to EU membership, Europe's values and environmental protection. I would add that, unlike the so-called green left movements, we do not regard this topic as an identity-forming force, a self-adjusting political product or a simple communication catch, but as an obligation under the Fundamental Law. In accordance with the European Union's directives, the Government is asking us to prohibit the placing on the market of a number of disposable plastic products, taking into account the environmental aspects and labour market factors within the time limit set therein. I believe that in the case of these products, not only recyclability, but interchangeability is also a key issue. There are, of course, plenty of products to be banned, the use of which is not, to say the least, a prerequisite. Ear-cleaning sticks, plastic cutlery, plates, straws, and could still be classified by sunrise. However, there is, of course, a strong demand for these, which, according to the basic rules of the economy, creates supply. There is a production base behind the supply, so ultimately tens of thousands of people's jobs in design, production, transport and commerce. We have no right to endanger them, especially at a time when the coronal virus pandemic alone is causing enough trouble in the labour market. I believe that the government wisely recognised the exceptionalness and seriousness of the situation, and therefore changes the originally planned deadline and content of the ban on disposable plastic products in Hungary. [[9.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Environmental protection, sustainable lifestyles are ultimately not a matter of laws and sanctions. We need a social shift here. To access the road that started with the TV reclamation of plastics and ends where we don't buy unnecessary plastic products. Because if we don't buy it, they won't produce it, they'll switch to other products, and we can say that we've kept the jobs, but we've also preserved the values of nature. They're both important at the same time. It's hard to decide that it's equally important, but it's important at the same time. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Schanda Tamás, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is important for the government to protect our created world, to protect our environmental heritage and to fight climate change, because we all want clean water, cleaner air and a more bearable climate. Our basic law also includes the idea that we must protect the natural values of the Carpathian Basin, and that we also have responsibility for our offspring, so we protect the living conditions of the generations after us by using our natural resources carefully. That's what our Fundamental Law says. The government acts in this spirit and is aware of it. We're working to make our country the winner of changed circumstances. Honourable Congressman, The protection of the created world cannot be a question of political fashion, although we see an attempt on the left to do so regularly; it is a sound of words, the re-painting of old colors with green, the dressing of purely professional questions in political robes, and nothing of action. We can see that the left did not take part in the debate day itself, before which he prevented the work of the Parliament, and that Gergely Karácsony announced the climate crisis in Budapest, but did not take any concrete measures, but we see no meaningful action other than the speeches. It has already been said today that the Parliament has recently passed the Climate Protection Act. This bill was submitted by the opposition, and finally it was not voted by the left. The Parliament also adopted the parliamentary resolution on non-deferential tasks arising from climate change. This was also submitted by the opposition, but the left did not vote for this either. Therefore, allow me to thank the KDNP and Fidesz fractions for their support for the adoption of this decision and the bill, which demonstrates the commitment and stand of these two political forces to protect the created world. Honourable Congressman, The adoption of the Climate Law has confirmed that the government is acting in the fight against climate change and is doing much to protect our created world. This is also demonstrated by the measures taken so far and the Energy and Climate Policy Strategy adopted this year, as well as the announced climate and nature conservation action plan. Honourable Congressman, As part of the climate and nature conservation action plan, we have started to develop the necessary measures to rationalise the waste management sector, to eliminate illegal landfills and to establish an authority that will be responsible for monitoring the waste management sector and for setting strict penalties for polluters. The bill on banning the placing on the market of disposable plastics, as you said, lies before the Parliament, its implementation may begin in the summer of 2021 following the adoption of the bill. The aim is twofold: on the one hand, by reducing plastic waste, it serves the country's environmental interests, and, on the other hand, the Member has also referred to this, he also contributes to the fulfilment of the EU's obligation to harmonise legislation. The bill also proposes to ban the placing on the market of a number of single-use plastic products, including plates and glasses, as well as measures to reduce the use of plastic bags and bags. It prohibits the placing on the market, with the exception of biodegradable carrier bags, of lightweight carrier bags with a wall thickness of between 15 and 50 microns which are single-use and which lose significant quantities each year, but there are other substitute environmentally friendly products. Honourable Congressman, Hungary is an example of the fact that it will adopt more stringent provisions than the mandatory provisions imposed by the European Union. I therefore call on the Honourable Parliament to support the bill later on. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, To speak before the agenda from the Fidesz Group, MEP László Horváth applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It would be best if my speech were not topical if there was no actuality of school violence. It would be best if there weren't any school violence, but unfortunately, there is. One of the teachers of a school in difficulty in a small settlement in East Hungary said to a TV crew in the last few days, literally, that in our school, fights are commonplace. Extremely underprivileged, over-age children who kill each other for the slightest harm. As we arrive at school at 8:15, until 2:00, 2:30, until the hours are up, we can't sit down, we can't go to the bathroom, we can't smoke, because if the bell rings, we run after them to get to the yard or the hallway faster than they do, where, in which corner there's going to be a fight. Recently, in a physical education class where the teacher was alone, one of the eighth graders threw his partner to the ground and became a very serious injury to the upper arms and forearms requiring several surgeries. A little girl was beaten so badly by a boy with a bruised face, a skull contusion, and a crack in the nose reported by the teacher. He says separation takes the most time and energy, and he thinks it's necessary to protect the children's security. In order to protect the children, we need school security. Not a month ago, during the exam at Hajdúhadház, an exam student attacked his teacher, kicked him twice in the upper body, and then forced the teacher to escape from the classroom with a chair held over his head, and the police had to prosecute him. In this school in Hajdúhadháza, the school board also says that there is a need for school security to protect teachers. These two examples show that those who are there, where there is trouble, who live their daily lives, who work and study where there is trouble, say that there is a need for school security. And those who are not there, and here I am thinking of left-wing politicians and experts from their moonyards, so that there is no misunderstanding, and they have been attacking the government from the very first moment and attacking the need to set up a school guard. They're back on the horse again. They're not taking sides with the victims again. Again, they do not start with them, but, ignoring the victims, they try again to absolve the perpetrators, again trying to make a passport for the perpetrators. It is well known that there is no place or place for violence at school. Where there's violence in a school, there's no teaching or learning. And the institution where there is neither teaching nor learning is no longer a school. We also know that all teachers and students have a fundamental right to respect their human dignity. Every student is entitled to the right to a relaxed learning, and every teacher is entitled to the right to a relaxed teaching. And every family has the right to keep their children safe at school. These are fundamental rights which the Government of Hungary grants and, if necessary, protects. And if you have to, you will definitely set up the ban tree, because there is a zeroth school requirement that all parents who are schooling their children will have to do before they go to school. [[9.10]] It's like bullying, threatening, assaulting a school teacher, a student is strictly forbidden. This is a standard that everyone must respect, no matter what his social situation is, what his origin is. Violence has no business at school. The Government of Hungary now, as in other cases, begins with the victims, is on the side of the victims, guarantees their rights, guarantees the majority the right to a calm learning, the right to a calm teaching for all teachers, and where they need it, they need school security; where they need school security, because the locals say they need it, they need it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-02-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Breakers of laws can never be preferred to law enforcement, as is the case with school violence. Any violence at school as a teacher or student should immediately be given assistance to the state, because it is unacceptable for anyone to go to school scared of being a student or a teacher, because he is afraid that someone will beat him, abuse him, act aggressively with him, constantly be subjected to physical or verbal aggression. On the one hand, this is not a worthy way to go to school, not as a teacher, not as a student, and on the other hand, it makes it completely impossible for someone to teach or learn at school. Unacceptable! And that is why it is unacceptable that this bill, which the Parliament will discuss tomorrow, which will introduce the school guard on the one hand, and I will tell you later how many other measures will be attacked by trade unions and left-wing politicians. This proposal protects precisely the 500 schools that will volunteer to seek such help, teachers who cannot teach. Because if students do not listen to the teacher in a classroom, there is no teaching in that class, the future of those students is lost. Because anyone who can't study at school, where there's a class community, twenty-some students, two or three of whom have been afraid of others, or prevent them from physically, by force, so that the teacher can take action in substance, so that the teacher has authority to have order in a classroom, then the future of the other members of that class has been taken away. You're not gonna get a degree, you're not gonna find a good job because there are some students who can physically threaten both the others and the teacher. That's why it's important for them to act. This is not the first measure taken by the government. We have already done a lot to prevent such situations from happening for crime prevention purposes, and we have done a great deal to punish such situations more strictly. On the one hand, we have tightened the sentence of attacking a teacher or teacher already in 2012. We have launched training courses for teachers in conflict management where they can prevent this situation, or they can act in such an unexpected situation by considering in advance with professionals what needs to be done in their own interests and in the interests of the class. There was mental hygiene and basic training for educators, ENABLE program and other. More than a thousand educators have been involved. We have doubled the number of school psychologists in order to be able to provide human, spiritual support and support to students who are at risk of acting aggressively. So anyone who has the opportunity to try to help him with a school psychologist, to fit in better with the class himself, and not to be aggressive, can now be helped by twice as many school psychologists as a decade ago. That's why we wanted the children who come from home and receive education that endangers the education or physical integrity of the others at school... they're being helped by double the number of school psychologists. There are already 2,000 school policemen, 200 high school crime prevention consultants help us prevent such acts. These were what we had done so far, precisely to prevent such situations from occurring, but we see that various external circumstances are obviously involved, but the number of these situations has not been zero and has not fallen to the level that we wanted to achieve, so we have also tabled a new legislative package here in this House. One part of this is the renovation of the school guard. They will arrive at the schools where the school asks from September 1st; of course, in consultation with the maintenance staff everywhere. They can use physical coercion and handcuffs in case a teacher alerts them. We would also like to develop a mobile app as soon as possible so that they can tell the other teachers and the school warden that there is an aggressive situation in one of the classrooms. And if they attack the school guard, so the student attacks the school guard, then he can use a chemical device or a police rod in self-defense, and these school guards won't have a gun. They will also receive special training, pedagogical, psychological, police and crime prevention training, and can only take action to the extent necessary and proportionate, but in these cases they will have to act, because it cannot be possible for a small number of aggressive people to intimidate the entire class and even the teaching staff. The law package also lowers the age of criminality, as many young people have been able to escape criminality because of their youth. Criminal costs can be charged to parents if the child is convicted or school support can be suspended for 12 months in the event of a final conviction, because the parent also has a significant responsibility if the child is not raised to listen to the teacher and the other students are not disturbed or aggressive at school. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-02-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. A joint debate on the proposal to amend Act I of 2004 on Sport in relation to Olympic Benefits is now taking place in an exceptional procedure. The presentation submitted by Erik Bánki, Tünde Szabó, Máté Kocsis fideszes, István Simicskó and Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP colleagues T/11085. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. However, before I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, President-elect, I would like to inform you that you have a timeframe of 25 minutes and what you are now using as an exposure, there will be so much less left in the box. [[Dr. István Simicskó: The TAB, isn't it?]] I play my own script, everyone has one. But it seems that Congressman Gyula Budai will be the one... [[Dr. István Simicskó: A TAB. The Legislative Committee.]] Sorry about this little intermező, but Gyula Budai will, according to the script, be acting as rapporteur for the Legislative Committee, so as a double. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Only the TAB!]] I see. So we're just saying that the congressman didn't know what script order was. So, therefore, let me give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, on behalf of the rapporteur, as I have said, asking for a careful 25-minute schedule, with respect, for the two parts. Here you go, Mr. President-elect, you have the floor.
u2020-07-02-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I initiated the amendment of the Sports Act with my fellow Members, Mrs Tünde Szabó State Secretary, Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of Group, Lőrinc Nacsa, because a unique case highlighted the legal vacuum in the Sports Act. A tragic incident has made us realize this, and of course it is about the death of Tibor Benedek, our three-time Olympic champion, whom we all respected, loved, liked, thought to be an excellent athlete and a great family father. Of course, we do not change laws in this House, in the House of Lawmaking, in a very rare case, at least, but it is certain that this tragic case has highlighted the lack, the legal problem that we must remedy in any case due to humanity, our cheerleading behaviour, as well as the responsibility of the legislator, because of our parliamentary representatives. [[9.20]] I believe that the sport-friendly Hungarian society is happy to support and welcome this, and I trust that all Members of Parliament will vote for this. However, in a brief introduction, I would like to say what sport means to Hungarian people. We often hear that the Hungarian government is a sport-friendly government, and this is not an unfounded statement. Indeed, very large improvements have been made in the major sports sectors, there has been a significant increase in the replacement base, more and more children are playing sports, and more and more adults are playing sports, and not only our competition sports are growing and there is a growing career, but also our society. So there are a lot of running races, there are recreational sports events, and this is joyful, because the great goal is to build an athletic nation. Hungarians are incredibly talented in various sports, we all know that. After all, if we look only at the number of Olympic gold medals, we have 177 gold medals at the moment, let us hope that we can continue to increase our gold medals and medals in the Tokyo Olympics postponed for the future. This is a gold medal from the winter Olympics, 176, which is a gold medal from the summer Olympics. In this line of nations, we are in the eighth place, so in the first ten we are there - unique talent, unique coaching, athletic will, intention and success, and, of course, behind this there is Hungarian society, there is the education and education system, there are Hungarian families and everyone who can add, because our young people in sport are members of our society and members of our nation. This is no coincidence, because by the way, if I summon Wolfgang Berringer here for a sentence, he says that sports are nothing but a key to the way society works. So through sport, we can see how a country's society works, what human relations are, what standards of conduct there are, what kind of people are basically, and through sport we can see the very, very important value that athletes carry, the spirit of fair play, the sportlikeness, if we can show this more and more strongly in our society, with personal creeds and examples, then I am sure that we can improve our community co-existence, our human relationships. It is necessary, I think, that when we look for a common denominator in this rebellious, rushing, globalised world, then a sports competition, a sporting success where Hungarian athletes win Olympic gold medals, or even at the European Championships, World Championships, wherever they bring success to our nation, we can cheer together and cheer together. This can and must be a common denominator in this world, and always has. So this is about an athlete, Tibor Benedek, who set an example for many, many young people. In addition, as a family father, he has three children, two of his younger children remained half orphaned, and his wife remained widowed. Turning to the essence of the amending proposal, with which we can express our attention and compassion, and if any other such case happens to any of our athletes, God does not give it to us to happen, but if such a case happens, then, of course, these rules will stand for him, and we can provide an exemplary solution to this situation, as far as such a difficult period can be arranged financially. Where are we now? Under the current rules, we can say that Tibor Benedict's widow is not entitled to a widow's allowance. By the way, according to the current rule, it would take ten years to get married, in August of this year they would have been ten years old, married ten years ago. Their two children: Mor and Barka, teenage children, need financial security to raise them as well. According to the current rules, the Olympic allowance is HUF 367 800. The fact is that if we make this decision, this is a negligible amount of money in the budget on an annual basis, so I have the total sum of 13 million HUF per year, so it doesn't cause any serious burden to the budget if I look at it from this side. The current amendment concerns the fact that, instead of ten years of marriage, the total amount of widow's allowance is still five years, so it is not only half of the amount that the Olympic allowance would be paid under the current legislation. This goes all the way to the age of children, and of course it is on request, at the request of the widow. But if we accept this, then I think it is important to be able to respond to the crisis of the law, the fact that life does, unfortunately, produce such surprises, such tragedies, such changes. Indeed, the legal system must be stable, but predictability is also important in the interests of law-abiding behaviour, but it is certain that we must make legislation realistic, and this is a life-like problem, a life-like problem that we need to remedy. I often quote Kolping as a Christian Democrat politician, who is the 19th. In the century, he first served poor children as a shoeboy, then as a priest, and presented them with the opportunity of a life course and career in the crafts, who asked God only to ask God for one to know the troubles of his own age and to give him health and strength. So in such a spirit and such a mission, we must do our job, recognize the problems of our time, recognize the legal gaps, the legal problems, look, look, we must apply lifelikeness, and through this we can remedy a very serious problem, and express our compassion and humanity towards the family of Tibor Benedictek. So I would like to ask you to support this amending proposal, and, of course, from the expo time, it is also possible for my fellow Members to comment, including Lőrinc Nacsa and others, who have tabled the amendment with me. We thank the Secretary of State very much for paying attention to this current problem and trouble as a secretary of state at these tragic, difficult moments, and the intention and desire to help will be revealed in this way. Thank you all very much, thank you very much, fellow Members, for listening.
u2020-07-02-32	Thank you very much, 8 minutes and 50 seconds were the time frame used, so from 25 minutes, the 8 minutes and 50 seconds will be reduced to the time frame available in the closing room. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó, with all due respect, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Madam Secretary, I would like to say that your timeframe, which you are not using right now, is 15 minutes you can use at any time during the debate, but there is no way to say it in the closing word. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The sad events of the past few weeks have refocused on the question of our shared responsibility and obligation to honor our athletes, as the Olympic participation, victory, honest standing or a good result, placing not only the athlete, but also the whole country and nation can be proud and proud. The whole life of these athletes is a parable of the superhuman achievement behind each Olympic, world championship or European championship medal. After all, the successes of our competition sport support our national self-esteem, increasing our country's visibility, attractiveness and growth. This is well demonstrated by the fact that Hungary is 11th place on the medal table in view of the distribution of medals in summer and winter Olympics, while if you look at the summer games, it takes the eighth place, and if you look at the number of souls in proportion, then our country ends up in the podium. [[9.30]] Of course, we must not forget that the outstanding results also direct the attention of ordinary people to sport, support the spread of a culture of regular exercise, increase the number of young people who want to play sports and want to play, as my fellow Member has just said. Because of our legends in the Olympics, hundreds of children are interested in sports, a sport, adults or older people are starting to play sports again. It is therefore essential that we honor our outstanding athletes, since they honor our entire nation with their accomplishments. This is the purpose of providing an Olympic allowance, which, if we look at it, has been amended several times for up to 20 years, as needs and time have shown that the amendments were indeed necessary. For example, the circle of beneficiaries of annuities with medalists and coaches and federal captains has been expanded, and the number of sports events that qualify for the Olympics is added, for example, to the paralympics and the deafly lympics, as well as the amount of the allowance corresponding to the number of gold medals has been introduced. Thus, our multiple Olympic medalists were entitled to the full amount of the medal fee for each medal, recognising the exceptional performance of sportsmen behind all the medals and appreciating the impact of the results on the nation as a whole. In addition, the institution of the lack of merit for the Olympic allowance has, of course, been introduced, as a result of which an Olympic allowance cannot be granted to those who have a criminal record or are subject to a trial. The sad events of the past period, such as the death of Tibor Benedek, have once again led to a situation where we feel obliged to amend and supplement the rules on the Olympic allowance. T/11058 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in relation to Olympic Benefits, submitted jointly with my fellow Members. Bill No 1 concerns the regulation of widow's allowance for the widows of athletes who receive an Olympic allowance and primarily provides assistance to families where the deceased has remained a minor child or children. Under the current rules, the widow is entitled to a widow's allowance equal to 50 per cent of the athlete's Olympic allowance, under the legal conditions. The bill provides for the possibility that, if the widow has a minor child with the deceased athlete, the widow will be entitled to a widow's allowance equal to the Olympic allowance for the athlete until the child becomes an adult, provided the conditions for living together are met. In addition, the bill reduces the duration of cohabitation at the time of the death of the medalist from ten to five years as a spouse required to qualify for a widow's allowance. This has been mentioned by my fellow Member Simicskó, and I thank him very much, because it is not possible to emphasize our shared responsibility enough and we find it very, very important that we appreciate our outstanding athletes, because they bring glory to our nation with their achievements and often devote their whole lives to sport. In addition, I think it is also important that, if, after the death of the athlete, the widow takes care of their common minor child, we can support their families, thus ensuring adequate financial conditions for raising the minor child. The proposed amendment therefore helps the widow who loses the spouse of an annuity athlete by providing the financial security necessary for the education and care of the child of a common minor. Thus, of course, the Government supports T/11085 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in relation to Olympic Benefits. I therefore ask my fellow Members, with respect, to support this proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-02-34	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, I would like to inform you that if you would like to speak at some point in the debate, you have 8 minutes and 50 seconds of time. Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I am now giving the floor to our colleague Gyula Budai, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 July 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in relation to Olympic Benefits, T/11085. Bill No. 1. The summary report from the committee of the house rule 46. It adopted it unanimously by 33 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, The death of young Tibor Benedek is an irreplaceable loss to the sports world and the whole country. In the proposal before us, we would like to give all possible support to your family in this difficult situation, because they are in an unfair situation with regard to the Olympic allowance. The amendment allows the widow to receive the full amount of widow's allowance for the death of an Olympic medalist if she raises a common minor child. The proposal reduces the duration of living together as a spouse for a widow's allowance from ten to five years. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us must be supported, given that the recognition of athletes who have earned Hungary fame and pride is a national matter beyond discussion. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes, and the independent Members have a total time frame of 8 minutes. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a timeframe of not more than 15-15 minutes per group of representatives. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gergely Tapolczai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-37	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member, István Simicskó, and Mrs Tünde Szabó, and my fellow Member Gyula Budai, said, there are currently three important elements in the amendment of the Sports Act. The widow of the medalist may become entitled to the full amount of the allowance after five years of marriage, the total amount shall be granted if she raises a minor child. The widow who becomes entitled must apply for an allowance so that she can become entitled to the payment. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish we didn't have to submit this amendment to the law. We would have won more, I think, if we hadn't had this proposal on our table right now. But life is cruel, and we have to do our job. The best and most worthy memory of Tibi Benedek is that we have now presented this proposal, and if we accept it, we recognise Tibor Benedek's career, success, human size and the size of his athletes. I'm sure we all have some personal memories, experiences, impressions of Tibor Benedek. Let me show you some of my pictures, too. For me, the first was the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, when the water boiled around Tibor Benedek in the pool, so he fought, and yet the team finished 4th place. He left a deep impression of me sitting on the bench at the end of the game trying to digest defeat. I could see the desire to win. My next picture is the 1999 European Championship. Perhaps after the greatest final of all time, the teammates unanimously chanted the name of Tibi Benedek, who sat silently in the audience, thus accepting this enormous solidarity that was manifested toward him. Then there were three Olympic gold coins. [[9.40]] My third experience with him was one of the forums of the Hungarian Siket Sports Club, where Gergely Kiss and Tibor Benedict were invited to an experiential report at the time they were two Olympic champions; this was in the period 2004-2005, and I participated in this discussion, and there we could see that they were very modest and very direct, and that they were both worthy of representing Hungarian colours. The question of banal ointment and the question of suspension for eight months also arose, and Tibor Benedek said modestly and modestly about it, but in his eyes there was a mixture of sorrow and fire. The rest is sports history. Immortal of the sport, role model, 15 million Hungarian Benedek's Tibi. As a coach, he was always leading by example, setting his players, fans and TV viewers on fire in the same way. He was one of the rare prominent personalities who were united in their human and professional judgment, and this is a very big deal. This bill is worthy to be remembered in this form, and we can support your family, recognising what you have done for water polo sports and Hungary. Speaking of the Hungarian Siket Sports Club, I would like to mention that the rules on medal benefits have been amended several times over the past period and have been amended fairly several times. The last amendment affected not only the number of medals and the rights of coaches, but also extended the range of rightholders to the Paralympic medalists before 1984. However, the Deaf Limpian medalists before 1984 are still not entitled to the allowance. State Secretary Tünde Szabó knows this issue well, and I have made several proposals on this issue. I would like to ask you now and propose it just because the Hungarian Siket Sports Club has also turned to the government in a letter asking for help to find a solution for this in the next round. To sum up, the bill before us must be clearly supported, honoring the memory of Tibor Benedict, who would be 48 in ten days' time. Allow me to offer my condolences to the selected team members and to the family of the deceased Tibor Benedek, on behalf of Ádám Steinmetz, both on behalf of myself and as president of the Sports Association of the Hungarian Hearing Damaged. Benedek Tibi, we're with you!
u2020-07-02-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Steinmetz, who is speaking from the platform. We'll wait for Congressman to come up to the stand. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz enters the speaker's stand.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The proposed amendment to the sport law before us would introduce two important amendments to Act I of 2004. One is that he is entitled to an Olympic allowance if he lived in a common household with the medalist at the time of his death and for at least five years without interruption; and the widow of the medalist until the full amount of the medalist's annuity becomes the age of their common minor child. Yes, this has been said by the speakers before me, and thank you very much for your honesty, where it has also become clear that this has come up in connection with an unfortunate case, and on some level a personalised legislation, but I would like to highlight to you that this is not entirely the case. Knowing the purpose of the proposal and its precedents, I would like to say, first of all, that I can support this with a good heart, and I think that everyone else here in Parliament will also do so at tomorrow's vote, I hope. Although I am here in my capacity as Members of Parliament, people need to be explained why an annuity is an important issue and why it is important to make additional benefits, which have budgetary implications, even though we have heard that this is not significant. Especially when hundreds of thousands of people are losing or losing their jobs in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, it is worth explaining to them why we have to think about widows from the budget, the people who help these athletes for a lifetime. With regard to annuities, I think we can say that this is a sign of respect and appreciation for society for athletes who gain gold, silver or bronze in an Olympics. As an athlete, I myself experience the love that comes to us, and not only socially, as I said, we are also financially appreciated by the Hungarian nation. But you have to act like one. And if I open a parentheses here: because they see us as role models, it is important that we behave in a manner worthy of an athlete, not only during the sport run, but also after that, the lifestyle or action incompatible with sportsmanship destroys the nymphus of the Olympics in any way. I also need to remember that a large part of society, which has not played this sport at such a high level, may have little idea of the background of an Olympic victory or a podium position, of the resignation, of how much training, competition has been done, and of what kind of work it is together. It requires, on the one hand, the love and support of a nation; it requires a good coach, a good team when it comes to team play, or a medium that constantly maintains the competitive spirit; it requires a good professional crew; and not least, it requires a loving family, an understanding partner, wife or husband, who does provide all the help and support that these racers can do this often superhuman work. So I would like to make it clear from this point of view, and this has not come before the Parliament's plenum, that, therefore, I do not fully regard this as a personalised legislation, because many, do not give it to God, can be in such a similar situation, and it is important to appreciate widows, surviving spouses and families. Finally, I would also like to pay tribute to Tibor Benedek and to the fact that, under the current sport law, his family would not be entitled to this support, which is why it is necessary to make this amendment. I would also like to stress that Tibor Benedek, my former teammate, rest his soul! He was also a three-time Olympic champion, world champion, European champion and world champion federal captain, although he was not yet officially an athlete of the nation, but he was practically an athlete of the nation. Therefore, since Tibor Benedek was everyone's athlete, regardless of party affiliation, I consider this bill to be an initiative that is absolutely out of the way. [[9.50]] I would also ask my fellow opposition Members to take a similar view of this bill, not to make a party policy out of it, and to support it. But I would also like to note in silence that since Tibor Benedek was an athlete of an entire nation, this bill would have been more elegant to submit and accept all-party negotiations. I regret that this has not happened in the present case, but I sincerely hope that similar common matters concerning our nation will take place in the future. Thank you for listening.
u2020-07-02-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP's group is Mr Dezső Reliable. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! For the second time in the last month, we have been able to amend the Sports Act and this has been done in an exceptional procedure on both occasions. I think the exceptional procedure for this law has now been justified. I also remembered, as my fellow Member mentioned, that it would have been okay if a seven-party discussion had been initiated on this, and it would have been a really nice gesture if the rapporteur on this agenda had been his teammate, Ádám Steinmetz. This did not work, but I think we can manage this story in an appropriate way, with this exceptional procedure. Technically, this law is about reducing the conditions for a widow's allowance in this case, which we agree with, and we believe that this is a reasonable proposal. And the fact that 100 percent of the allowance is due in the case of a common minor child, we believe that it is a reasonable proposal. In fact, when I thought about this and looked at these proposals, it occurred to me that even when we adopted the original law, we could have thought of this, so we could have thought of this, because the current amendment and the proposal are so reasonable, but I think we are still in time, and with this amendment we can correct our shortcomings at that time, perhaps we should have said so. Listening to the speeches here, I sense that Tibor Benedek has still made great works. I sense it, and it's both terrifying and touching that he was really great at being able to create unity. [[Dr. Steinmetz to Adam:]] I'm sure you know better than that. I think the captain of a water polo team is the captain in the pool who can unite his teammates and lead them in order to do the same thing Tibor did. Then, later, on the shore of the pool, he had the same task as a federal captain, and at both locations, in the pool and on the shore of the pool, he had done his job to the fullest. In fact, what I am implying is both moving and scary: it can create unity here in death among the parliamentary parties. The proposal will be supported. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-42	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your moving words. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-43	Mr President, Dear House, The death or loss of a man is always a tragedy in his narrower or wider environment, and this tragedy is particularly serious when we lose someone relatively young. And if we lose a man who is the role model of an entire nation, a man who I think we all look up to today, the lucky ones who knew him closely because of personal acquaintance, and those who could only see him on television like me, and they got impressions of matches, interviews, personal revelations, if we lose someone who was important to a nation, then the entire nation has the loss. That is why it is justified and fair for the nation to share the grief and loss of the family, not only figuratively but also to help as it can. Ádám Steinmetz spoke modestly about the rational arguments for being justified and fair that this nation recognizes Olympic winners in a separate material sense. Let me speak on the emotional side of this matter, Adam may not want to talk about it because of his involvement, personal attachment. I think it's important for a country to appreciate the people who enrich us. I think that the Olympic winners do not simply bring glory to this country, not only by their own personal achievement, they contribute to the recognition of this country with a very significant, very great achievement, but, as my fellow Member Dezső, I believe, perhaps they are the ones who are fit to think a little bit about what is important to us in this country, what are our shared treasures, what are the things that rise above the daily battles, the day-to-day struggle for existence. I think that is why we can be grateful to all Olympic winners, and we can be grateful, I add, to athletes who put an enormous amount of energy and personal life into achieving success in the field of sport, even if they do not otherwise reach the Olympic Championship. So I think, and the position of the Democratic Coalition, is that it is right and fair that we want to help in this situation, it is right that Parliament amends this law, because when we have made the rules on Olympic annuity and we have modified it, none of us may have prepared for such a tragedy to happen, that at such a young age we lose an Olympic winner, that we still have to deal with such problems. It will be worth it, not now, because it is indeed time to commemorate and help quickly, to consider the rules, especially the recognition of the partnership in general, not only in such a specific case, we may talk about this, but this is not the moment. Now is the moment when the National Assembly can symbolically acknowledge the performance and memory of Tibor Benedictek, generally admit what the Olympic winners and the Olympic Olympics give to this country and this nation, this community, and we can also help the backward family at least in this sense with our sympathetic words, with our recognition and at least by helping to alleviate financial difficulties. The Democratic Coalition therefore wholeheartedly supports this truly patriotic bill, and, of course, we also supported the exceptional, extraordinary negotiation, and it is important that this be done quickly. We will support this proposal today and, of course, tomorrow in the vote.
u2020-07-02-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that in this debate, we can all feel what this tragedy means for the entire nation. I find it almost unprecedented, or as an unprecedented event, how shocked the whole country is by this terrible tragedy that it happened to one of our national heroes at such a young age. I think there is a complete consensus that this is a fair and very important bill. It is indeed a joint task, a national matter, as my fellow Member Gyula Budai said, that we appreciate athletes who bring pride and such results to the country, the nation. These speeches, which we heard from Congressman Tapolczai and Ádám Steinmetz, teammate Tibor Benedek and other fellow Members, Dezső Believing, Gergely Arató, have shown us the value of these sports successes, the value of these enormous achievements. They really bring news to our country and make us all proud, and this is when we can feel what a national matter is, what national pride is, and what it is when we can and must put aside everything that separates us here in Parliament, so in our busy everyday life, and it obviously will today. I think there is only one thing to do for these moments: to thank everyone, to thank all athletes, to thank Tibor Benedictek for all the glory and pride he has brought to this country, recognising the tremendous achievement that was behind it. [[10.00]] And thanking all Olympic champions and all athletes, indeed, as Gergely Arató said, for whom the step may not have come out, they did not reach the level of getting a medal, but they brought glory to the country, because this glory, along these athletes, can actually experience how good it feels to be part of the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much to the authors, and I do not wish to express any criticism at this moment, I can say that the LMP will, of course, support this bill with a good heart. And once again, on behalf of all of us, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank you for what Tibor Benedek has brought to this country as a glory, and I would also like to express my condolences on behalf of my group to his family members and teammates. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-07-02-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members, as the speaker-general's speaking circle is over, that someone would like to sign in for a two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Mr Attila Mesterházy, from the MSZP Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In fact, the sentences said might make it unnecessary for Members to continue talking about this subject, since there is a complete consensus here between the parliamentary parties, but I still thought it was worth putting a little more emphasis on a few things. One of the things that Ádám Steinmetz talked about is that, indeed, every time we talk about athletes there is another profession where this could be mentioned, but now let's stay on this subject, perhaps the role of the family does not appear so much. After all, we are always talking about coaches, professional staff, sports doctors, the environment that actually supports and helps athletes on a daily basis, and a little less light for family members, including their spouse or even children, who often lack their father or mother. Perhaps less is the media talking about it, and we ourselves are talking about how much resignation and sacrifice this kind of sport activity involves on the part of the family, and that is true from the beginning, then perhaps you feel more like a parent to make this sacrifice, and then later on in your own family. So I think it is very important that this has been said here in the debate that this decision is actually a recognition of this sacrifice. That is why, as my fellow Member Dezső Believer said, it is appropriate, and as Adam has said about it, this amendment is appropriate, and I can only confirm that this amendment is completely in order, and we will support it ourselves. I also agree, and that would be my other comment, and I would like to say a little bit to the fellow Members with Fidesz that there are things in which we should not be afraid of reaching some consensus, there are issues where we may not always have to run a kind of political competition, who should be the good and the better son in bringing out one thing or not, or whose idea it is that comes up. Indeed, perhaps it would have been better here, even on this issue, and perhaps it would have been more worthy of tragedy and personality if Parliament had really been able to present and accept this by consensus, as my fellow Members have pointed out, because sport is indeed an area where we can cheer on the same teams together, regardless of their political affiliation. I used to say the sentence at sports-related events: "Go, Hungary, go, Hungarians! Which, here in this House, I am quite certain, has a special political tone to this sentence, but if we put it in a sports medium, then I think it will become much more neutral and a sentence to encourage national athletes. So that is why I say that it is worth paying attention in such cases that, perhaps in this country, in this nation, there is a need for matters beyond the great party political battles to be such as this sport, it could be different, it could be a foreign policy issue, in which this House could find consensus in some form. This could certainly have been the proposal for an amendment to the tragic event, but I would never speak of it again, perhaps it is enough to confirm that the entire Hungarian Parliament will unanimously support this initiative. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2020-07-02-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I would ask Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, on behalf of the authors, to close in 15 minutes and 10 seconds. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I was moved to hear the speeches. I must say that the recent tragedy, the death of Tibor Benedek, has been devastated. I obviously didn't go to that level, but as a junior water polo player, I chose number eight when we started playing in the junior league, obviously not by accident. We also looked at the members of the Olympic National Team on numerous occasions at the Komjad Swimming Pool with a sense of fear and, yes, adoration. I think I tried to deal with grief by looking at the last quarter of the three Olympic finals, watching the last quarter of them last week, and I cried, I must say. Just as it was nice to hear these speeches, the commemorative speeches and, of course, why it makes sense to fight, why it makes sense to help Hungarian sports, why it makes sense to go out cheering, why it makes sense to start over and over again, after the failures, and to rejoice together in success. I think that this was a very nice moment, a very nice half hour or three quarters of an hour of the summer session of the Hungarian Parliament. And why this couldn't have come up in 2004, the adoption of the Sports Act, or at the time, my answer is that, inside, we always hope that there will be no need for such an amendment. Everyone inside is always hoping that it will not happen, that there will not be a tragedy that requires such an amendment, and somehow within you you always object to it, if such a thing happens, a tragedy happens, and somehow we always feel that it is wrong. And we're always trying to be mad at someone or angry at someone about it, and maybe that's why we think that's not what we're counting on, and that's not what a bill needs to handle, because as a normal order of life, life should go on. Our faith can help us to know that there is no end to a life with death, and our faith can help us to deal with these pointless questions and why. I think that in recent years, perhaps my fellow Member has mentioned this a little bit, and most of the time I think we have tried to make a consensus in Parliament on the decisions on annuity, when the increases were made, the catch-up of other medalists, the establishment of the coach's entitlement to full annuity, and the involvement of the Paralympic medalists. I think this was a very, very good direction, when it was always an occasion to talk a little bit about our sports success, our athletes, about Hungarian national pride in front of the public of the National Assembly, because in these matches, either on the spot or in front of television, we do not talk about it in this somewhat calmed down or more mannered style, not in a suit or in a magnification, but there we are shouting the password that Congressman Mesterházy has told us about, from the full strength and throat of everyone. I think that this is the right thing to do, but this is an opportunity to talk about them, and this is an opportunity to remember national heroes, pride, national feeling, a little talk, and this is the place here in Parliament, there is no need to be afraid of it here in Parliament. I am very pleased that everyone has given their support to this bill. For us, Parliament's unity means, in advance of confidence, that I hope that tomorrow President János Latorcai will say that the bill was adopted unanimously by the Parliament with 199 votes in favour, zero votes and zero abstentions. [[10.10]] This parliamentary unity on this issue is an expression of a matter over political parties. We may need what my fellow Member Gergő Tapolczai has referred to further steps, but there has just been a tragedy and we have all felt the hiatus that has been created here, or the void that Tibor Benedek has left behind, and how it is worth dealing with. I think the people before me have told me everything about the technical details of the bill, how it will be done. I think it's about a lot more than those two or three paragraphs, and it's about a lot more than getting this annuity, which is important that you get it. This is about breaking up the Hungarian nation with the idea of being small, and the Hungarian nation can be proud of performance, can be proud of athletes, can be proud of sports success and any success, and even if tragedy happens, we can cry shoulder to shoulder together, but we can move on, and in our memories we can all keep Tibor Benedict here with love and a hero. Thank you for your support.
u2020-07-02-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. I think that I can deviate from the strict requirements of the scenario now, and as President, I can say that we are not only amending a law on this bill, but also remembering the individuality, the size, the exemplary activities of Tibor Benedictek, and we are doing the right thing in life if we all keep his spirit and memory. I wanted to add this thinking to the quality of the debate and the commemorative effects of the debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We're going to take a two-minute technical break, because from the dignified tone, we're going to discuss another bill. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. A joint debate on the amendment of individual laws for administrative and economic recovery purposes, as well as on certain provisions concerning the management of assets, will follow in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/1175. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Before I give the floor to Mr Secretary of State, I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you have a timeframe of 25 minutes and that you will have so much less time to say the closing word before the debate. I now give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-51	Thank you very much for the information and the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before us proposes to amend 15 laws according to our plans. In a transparent way, he does so briefly. This is also important because of the rational aspects of law-making and law-modification. We believe that the purpose of the bill is also reflected in the title of the bill itself: amendments to the law relating to administrative and economic recovery and asset management. This is a collection that serves to relax in some administrative, certain economic sectors or in certain asset management issues in order to combat the economic impact of the control of the coronal virus epidemic, and to help keep jobs, create new jobs and boost the economy. I think we can all agree on that. The question is why we have proposed to negotiate in an exceptional procedure. That's because these signals have come to us recently. [[10.20]] These are the types of changes that could help the sectors in question. The conditions of the exceptional procedure are available, and we believe that in the fight against the epidemic, we cannot wait until the autumn session, because we are losing time, which at the moment is a particularly valuable time in relation to the control of the epidemic, and we are proposing that we not waste this time, but that the Parliament decide on this amendment before the end of the extended spring session. As I said, we have more concrete proposals. If I may, I would like to briefly mention a few suggestions. The first is the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport. This is intended to represent the tasks of the state and the local government in relation to the major international sporting and sports diplomacy events and to separate them from the general sporting events in practice, both in terms of terms and in terms of procedure. The main public actor of these flagship international sports and sports diplomacy events will be the Minister for Special International Sports and Sports Diplomatic Events. The other events, i.e. sports events in general, remain under the responsibility of the Minister for Sports Policy. This separation of powers is proposed by the bill. We think it is crucial, obviously, if the fight against the epidemic allows us to bring as much of the major international sporting events as possible to Hungary, Budapest and rural cities, because they increase both the value of tourism and the country's sports diplomacy and the performance of the economy, so that I do not bring the dimension of national pride here now, although this is also a key aspect in our view. We have another proposal, and this is an amendment to Act V of 2006 on Company Publicity, a technical amendment. In order to achieve a unified government operation, we would also like to state at legal level that the register of companies, as a priority for national data assets, will also be operated in the single government cloud. There are very serious technological changes in the world. The Hungarian State must also prepare for these technological changes and implement an IT development system or strategy in which key, strategically important public databases are included according to the technological achievements of the age XXI. They are stored according to the circumstances of the century and data protection can also be ensured, taking into account national sovereignty. This is why it is important to be able to operate the data of the business register as a key base register in the government cloud. Our further proposal is to amend the Criminal Code, which is also related to this previous topic. The bill complements the protection of national data assets by modifying the facts of the offence against the national register of data regulated in the Btk. The facts in force only punish those acts which relate to the data belonging to the national data asset itself and render it inaccessible to the controller. However, accessibility also suffers the same damage when the availability of raw data is given, but the records responsible for processing the data are not operational, so we would also like to extend this to the operationality of the register. Our further intention to amend is linked to the law on the protection of the settlement image. This part of the bill also came up at yesterday's legislative committee meeting. I would like to make it clear here that, in fact, it was in 2016 that the law on the protection of the image of settlement was amended, which in fact adopted a stricter regulation on visual advertising carriers, obviously in order to reduce cleaner urban image and visual pollution or so-called advertising noise. This, then, I know perfectly well that has caused a serious debate, depending on political affiliation. This is a debate, of course, if the ladies and gentlemen in Congress so wish, I would like to open it again, but I would not do so in the expozee. The Parliament has decided to accept this amendment. This amendment, more specifically, most of the elements related to the amendment, would have stood up after 31 December 2020, so that they had been granted a transitional period of preparation. We are proposing to push this forward until 31 December 2023. Again, this is sector-specific, and it's important because of the corona virus situation. The advertising sector, the advertising market, is one of the great victims of the corona virus epidemic, so we believe that maintaining the previous rules can help this economic sector, which gives jobs to thousands of people and that there are Hungarian businesses in it. So we can help to maintain the rules so far, in addition to the fact that the original legislative objective will not be abandoned, in an extended transitional period. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. We would also like to amend the law; this is a short amendment, which is very important for practice. To date, the authority has only been able to suspend proceedings for the examination of certain preliminary questions if this preliminary examination falls within the jurisdiction of the court or if a foreign body is required to be sought. We propose that the procedure be suspended even if it is necessary to consult the institutions of the European Union or other international organisations. Our next amendment is the 13th of 2019 on Trust Foundations. amendment of the law. It is a new institution; the Hungarian Parliament established the institution of trust foundations in the Hungarian legal system primarily on an Anglo-Saxon sample. This is a specific type of foundation regulated by the Civil Code. This may be based on the management of the property assigned to it by the founder and the resulting income for the performance of the tasks indicated in the articles of association and for the benefit of persons or persons designated as beneficiaries. Therefore, such a foundation can be set up for special purposes and specific trust tasks. At the moment, there are two types of these, not a public-interest trust fund and public-interest trust fund, obviously depending on what the purpose is indicated in the Foundation's articles of association. They have different rules. It is the form of trust in the public interest that has been mentioned several times in recent months in connection with the transformation of universities. It is a legal institution, as I mentioned, which has recently been incorporated into Hungarian law. These foundations are now being built, both as a private foundation and as a public trust fund, and the first practical experience after the entry into force of the regulation dictated this intention of amendment. In certain areas, we would like to provide an opportunity to broaden the private automation of its founders, for example, that the exercise of the founding rights can not only be designated as a curatorium, but also, where appropriate, as the founder's intention. I have only taken this provision as an example because it shows that the direction of the amendment is to increase the margin of the founder in defining the structure that is most favourable to him. Finally, the law also proposes to amend the Law on the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation and to amend the talent management programme of the Mathias Corvinus Collegium and to amend the Act on National Higher Education. [[10.30]] This is justified by the fact that the stock of shares previously held in trust was owned by the Trust Fund operating the Corvinus Foundation, or such a construction was implemented in connection with the Mathias Corvinus College, thereby broadening the asset management activity, of course in addition to the existing guarantees laid down at the statutory level, but in this context certain clarifications were required. These questions have been raised from a law enforcement point of view. The integration of this structure into the Hungarian legal order is crucial, for example, for tax, tax and procurement purposes, and the bill clearly places foundations in the Hungarian legal order. The sectoral rules of the National Higher Education Act and the Act on Trust Foundations are complementary to the Higher Education Act, which creates maintenance management and asset management coherence, the consistency of asset management activities, stressing that the purpose of the Trust Foundation is to preserve and increase property. To this end, the public interest objective can be ensured and, of course, it also sets a framework for the management of wealth. About these are the amendments I thought it was important to highlight in an expozee. I think it is a major amendment to the law. I ask you to understand that we are proposing to amend 15 laws in one single proposal, but it is quite clear that each of these proposals is for the purpose of cutting red tape, simplifying administration and economic recovery within the sector. So I think that all points are eligible, with a good heart, and I would like to ask you to do so in the parliamentary debate and later in the vote: support the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-07-02-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you will have a timeframe of 10 minutes and 50 seconds for the debate and the closing. The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to our colleague Gergely Tapolczai, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-53	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 July 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed a bill on administrative and economic recovery amendments to certain laws and on issues relating to the management of certain assets. The summary amendment and the summary report were discussed by the Committee during an exceptional procedure and adopted by 24 votes in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us came to us on the basis of previous observations, practical experiences and proposals. This proposal aims to amend a number of laws. Now there is no framework for listing the whole thing, the ones that are affected by the proposal. The Secretary of State has already touched on more of this. I'd just like to present a few topics as a demonstration. We can see that all laws deal with making them more effective, and the aim of these proposals is to make them as effective as possible in practical application. I'd like to talk to you about a few things quickly. One is that Hungary has hosted internationally significant sporting events in recent years. These have had a positive impact on the economy, tourism and the reputation of our country. A more effective allocation of tasks and resources should be carried out on the basis of the organisation of sporting events in recent years and its experience in applying. We can talk about two groups. One is repeated sporting events and there are individual sporting events. Both require different regulations. Based on the experience of the past years, the bill intends to resolve this situation by highlighting the sporting events, high-ranking domestic events, national sporting events, and assigning the tasks of tendering and organising them to the minister responsible for organising major international events and sporting events. Another important area is the modification of the rules on trust funds. For example, some major amendments: the proposal enhances the freedom of the founder, primarily the organisational structure of the foundation. It gives the founder the opportunity to hand over his rights as founder to the foundation auditor, or the property controller, if he does not exercise founder's rights, the founder may refrain from setting up the supervisory board. It further proposes that the founder be able to provide that, in the event of his death, or in the event of termination without successor, or in the event of the occurrence of the conditions laid down in the articles of association, his right of founding shall be transferred to the Foundation. This bill will also make implementation more effective and practical in all laws, and I would like to ask you to support this bill and thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-02-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the individual factions have a 30-30 minute timeframe, while the independent representatives have a total of 8 minutes. In the first round, keynote speakers will be held, with a duration of 15-15 minutes. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gyula Budai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us amends several points of a number of laws, taking into account the feedback received from practical experience. With these amendments, the objective to be achieved is clearly to ensure that the provisions of individual laws are applied as effectively as possible in life. Of course, in each case, the social impact assessment of the law will confirm to us the correctness of the decision. Dear House, In his exposé, Mr State Secretary gave a very detailed description of the main directions of the proposal submitted, and I would just like to highlight a few extremely important objectives. Hungary has organised important sporting events in recent years, and these events have always increased Hungary's reputation. The bill aims to ensure better implementation of tasks and resource allocation, based on the experience of sporting events and planning in recent years. It has already been said here by the Secretary of State, and also by the TAB, that there are two groups of tasks to be distinguished in this area. [[10.40]] On the one hand, we can talk about sporting events to be held on a recurring basis and on the other, about the unical nature. Recognizing the different regulatory needs of these two groups of tasks, the draft law highlights the priority domestic and international sporting events to be organised with state support and the application and organisation of national and foreign sports diplomacy events, and refers these tasks, the organisation of key international sporting events, to the responsibility of the Minister responsible, as the State Secretary has already said. Ladies and gentlemen, There is another very important area that my fellow Member from Tapolcza has already touched on, but I will try to talk about it in more detail. The amendment to the Trust Foundations Act has been justified by practical needs since the entry into force of the Act. The law itself differentiates between two types of trust fund: there is a trust fund of general interest and there is a private trust fund. In the present case, we are talking about amending the rules governing the latter type, which are justified by the efforts of its founders to expand private automation. With this amendment, the legislator intends to further extend the freedom of establishment, in particular as regards the structure of the organisation of the trust's private fund. The legislator therefore wishes to provide the founder with an opportunity to entrust the exercise of his right of founding to the Foundation's estate monitor, to appoint a foundational property inspector instead of himself as the holder of the founding rights. The proposal also states that if the Foundation Asset Inspector does not exercise its founding rights, the founder should refrain from setting up the Supervisory Board. In such cases, this task and competence are essentially exercised by the Foundation Property Inspector, since in this case the trust fund's private foundation is only a board of trustees acting as an managing body, as well as the Foundation Property Auditor supervising the legality of the foundation's activities and the compliance of the management with the objectives set out in the articles of association. However, the amendment to both types of trust fund so that the founder, as set out in the articles of incorporation, may make a provision that, in the event of his death, termination of the trust or the occurrence of the condition laid down in the instrument of incorporation, his or her right of founding shall be transferred to the Foundation. Dear House, Essentially, both in the exposé and in the contributions of my fellow Member Tapolczai, the important things have been said. The rapporteur gave us a detailed description of the proposal. In my view, this draft law is capable of meeting the needs that have been raised in practice. In view of what has been said, the tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-57	Mr President, Dear House, And I had to drink a glass of mineral water before you take a deep breath and start, because there's a terrible thing in front of us, a political Frankenstein, a freak, a very amazing political abomination. I can't tell you how you've taken the liberty of doing this. It is quite amazing that a dozen and a half themes, laws and various areas are being sprung into a package that is basically being carried through Parliament in a day or two. To rape the basic rules of parliamentarism, I am not surprised, they have been doing this for ten years, and for the sake of fairness, let us note that in the period before 2010, there were plenty of wild drivings in this system that called for the renewal of parliamentarism, or for the restoration of the old traditional order of the time, but the horror that you have done now is something quite amazing. I would have been genuinely curious about the real thoughts of my esteemed fellow Fidesz lead speaker, but there was a forced reading from separate topics. Obviously, neither you nor I can be an independent expert on these issues in all areas, the polyhistors of old may be lost from us, but I believe that there is a moderate presence here in Parliament. I am not one of them, and I must say that I am obviously not as familiar with 15 areas as the requirements of Hungarian parliamentarism would require. But the fact that we also have to read the, as I see it, from paper, because they simply get to receive a central panel collection, they practically read back parts of the general explanation to us in front of Parliament, they listen to it, mostly politely to the opposition speeches, and then the honourable President closes the debate, and you vote as the faction leaders issue it, this is not a parliamentary order, please. This is the destruction of the bastions of democracy, and something quite amazing is that from trust management through sports events, the Btk. Amendment to the Advertising Act, amendment to the Advertising Act. Please, what's your hurry? Is the vacation tied up? What's behind this? If you feel these current market needs and you are affected by various lobbyists, which is not necessarily a problem, let's not say that all lobbying forces are bad, why don't you call off that bloody vacation? Why don't we stay in Parliament for two weeks? Why are these proposals not to be broken up by topic, submitted to the committee dealing with this and indeed competent? Let's argue about this. They could also give the market enough time to get their views on the proposals submitted to you by means of some kind of feedback, and then these proposals, this current political freak, could become a genuine, improving package of amendments. Why are you in such a hurry? They said the reasons, and, Mr Secretary, I agree with you, if there are market anomalies and they need to be dealt with, we really agree, then we should not wait until September with them. But, I beg you, do you adapt the processing of market demands to Parliament's busy schedule? ! And since you're on vacation in three days, you have two days on the front of work, so you're gonna have to solve this in two days with an extraordinary procedure? [[Towards the pro-government benches:]] Don't wave at me, fellow Member, push the button. And the fact is that there would be no obstacle to us settling these issues, my fellow Members, in the decent agenda, up to two weeks into the session. It's not written in the stone that you have two months' summer break to order. With this justification, I ask that we not be bullied, because this is unacceptable. So the end of this extraordinary summer session alone does not give us any reason to put down such a poor and so conflicted work in so many areas. I'd like to tell you that it's Btk. The amendment of its data protection provisions may, however, be justified, so I think that this has been triggered by a case and a problem with the Rector of Szeged, and I agree with you: this is indeed an area to be dealt with. In fact, as we penetrate the age of the digital economy, and we are going deeper into this, we will obviously need similar amendments as deeply and as widely as possible, so I think it is absolutely justified that we touch this area. I'm not even gonna say that what's lying in front of us is a bad idea without exception. I'm just saying that we can't discuss this here, in a way that's relevant to the subject. I'm not a data protection lawyer either, I'm not sure if they're gonna sit in this room or have a backup job in two days with experts who could have added their own. And I have to say that I really agree with most of the justification, Mr. Secretary. So when you talk about protecting Hungarian jobs, we agree. When you talk about creating as many jobs as possible to counterbalance the effects of the crisis, we are once again in agreement. In this package, if you're fighting like this, why isn't this on the record, Mr. Secretary? Where, for example, is the intention to protect Hungarian jobs where there is a serious threat to the workplace? Let's look at the catnip, for example. Why is this missing from the package? This is really important! In a manner supported by me for some of the cataclysms, this government implemented discounts in the middle of the epidemiological emergency, not in the first days, but according to a relatively noticeable schedule: a few ten thousand forints a month did not have to be paid temporarily for a certain period of time. My problem began with the fact that it was done in a way that was, on a scale, accessible to about a fifth of the cataclysms, and the vast majority of them did not benefit from this discount. What happens before the summer session is closed? What is happening is that they do not extend this discount, let us say, to the whole range of catapults, because they see that we are at the beginning of an economic crisis, at the beginning of an economic crisis, but they are actually imposing a special tax of a punitive nature, which could once again form the basis of a legitimate debate, since there are market malfunctions on the front of the cata. [[10.50]] I, too, see how vulnerable workers are in mass situations and are often forced to enter into a cataclysmic relationship and continue their taxation in this way. But I have to say, this is not the right time to settle this, but perhaps it would be January 1st. Now we must survive an economic crisis. Our goal now is that those who have somehow stayed above the waves as a cataclysm get a temporary help. This is what is missing from this package, and you have quite rightly talked about protecting Hungarian jobs, and I agree with you on this. Why isn't he in this package? Why is personalised legislation before us, the embodiment of the various lobbyists in this package? I'm gonna say it again, Btk. changes in the nature of data protection, advertising law, provisions relating to asset management, which I understand is a booming market, I can perfectly see how and how businessmen close to government can rationally diversify and use their portfolio of these new types of economic units. We see it. But let us also talk about those who have real problems in this package, Hungarian workers. We've already talked about the catapults. There's nothing in this package about the replacement of wages. In the economic crisis after the emergency, a lot of wages were lost. Jobbik's proposal was the Hungarian employment protection fund, which would replace 80% of lost wages for those who have already lost their jobs. On the other hand, Fidesz's package, submitted a delay of one and a half months, was able to replace around 10-20 percent of the total wage loss on the market. I think it would be worth a professional debate to improve your system. We see that the lack of funds put into it is astonishing and worrying. Obviously, sports investments also deserve a few words, although in our faction there is a personality and public figure who is much more routine in this area, so obviously he will be doing the brigade of this, but it also arises in the simple newspaper reader that, say, a HUF 65 billion MotoGP career that does not pay off in life what Hungary needs. We agree that there are investments, world competitions that are necessary in this country, and I will even go on, obviously it must feed our national pride, and it will serve to be able to host these events regularly in the context of all our leading ships, flagships and all our outstanding sports performances. But why can't you prioritize him? Why is the attitude of Hungary to bring what it can take from the world sports market? With regard to the MotoGP course, I would have my objections, my concerns. If we look at the fate of the Taotize billions coming to Supper, obviously we could also bring together a multi-hour parliamentary debate, but I do not want to go this way now because I am trying to limit myself to what is in this package. There are already too many, since there are 15 topics in front of us, and there should be a man on his feet, who has read and prepared all this in two days, but there are plenty of outrageous facts and circumstances. At the same time, we also see that from a trust perspective, this government has not passed an "A" test, and this package also contains provisions on expropriation. We catch a very devious and sly-looking pro-government trick in this, as the government is a good expression for certain priority investments; sports investments, of course, make private areas that are needed for an investment much easier to own in the future. We see that all this can become a hotbed for abuse if we do not build adequate guarantees in this system. I find it quite simply amazing that these very deep, multibillion-dollar, ten-billion-dollar changes are being attempted in two days, with such a completely naive, idealistic, romantic justification to go through the system that the economy needs to be stimulated. Even so, 5-10 percent of this package is called for net economic recovery. I wish there was more to say, and I'd really like to hear more about it, but it's pretty simple that this area is being sabotaged by the government. He leaves all the social groups on the side of the road in a pure neoliberal way, he doesn't care about them, he doesn't make up for lost wages, he makes the lives of the ditchings miserable, instead of making it easier, again, while he's helping the billionaires, the oligarch's acquaintances, and supposedly, market players who would least need this help. In light of these, therefore, this package, although I can highlight two or three positive elements from it at any time, so that they do not think that I am a counter-suspect, and therefore I am blowing everything off of it, but the package is altogether unfit for support, since it is unprofessional, man-work, a political Frankenstein, a freak, which has been sewn together from different limbs, and has been manned for the last two days of Parliament. It is a shame and a shame that any Member must take part in a debate of this quality, it is unworthy of the Hungarian Parliament, it is unworthy of the traditions that we should all comply with. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-02-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the previous agenda, there was a moment when I applauded Gergely Arató's comment; I do not believe that this will happen again in the near future. Dear fellow Member, You're talking about vacations. So far, a public figure politician has said that he is going on a longer holiday, and this is the mayor of NewBuda, which you also support, which is worthy of Hitler. He's the one who said he'd go on a longer vacation. Now that the interviews and the board meetings are a little confused by the mayor of Gyurcsány, who has been elected with your logo, your logo, he was the only one who has spoken and spoken about the holiday. Talk to him about why he's going on vacation, or why he's still where he is, even though he shouldn't be in public life anymore. Speaking of wealth management, Mr President, the management and increase of state wealth has increased by one and a half times compared to 2010. The state's wealth has increased by one and a half times. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You don't mean it either! You have no stats! There's no inventory!]] Congressman, you asked me to press a button, I was already registered as a lead speaker; now you're doing the same thing. State assets increased by one and a half times compared to 2010. While the socialist-liberal government has previously committed robbery privatisation and has simply become private property and remember that 180 companies have been sold out; that the path of privatisation, robbery privatisation and debt has been continued; that strategic companies have been playing into the hands of buddies or foreign multinationals, whereas since 2010, state wealth has been constantly increasing, and state wealth is more transparent. The state's wealth is greater, because the Fidesz-KDNP government acts as a good owner of the state's wealth and doesn't squander it or squander it to its friends, doesn't commit robbery, but preserves or even increases the size of the state's property. If you have a problem with the management of government assets, you should address the criticisms to your allies, not to us, who have increased the amount of state wealth by one and a half times over these ten years. As has already been said, many laws are indeed being amended by the salad law before us, to be exactly fifteen. I understand opposition criticisms about salad laws, or I think I understand. At the same time, it is important that if there is an exceptional situation that is caused by the coronal virus epidemic and its economic effects, while there is evidence of economic events taking place, processes in which it is important, yes, to make important decisions before summer, even before autumn, it is important to help in the sector, it is important to help businesses, sectors that are in difficulty because of the coronal virus epidemic and where the market has changed in many places. Because we do not expect, ladies and gentlemen, that exactly the same markets, the same actors will continue to work on the recovery of the economy after the outbreak, there will be an unwitting redeployment, and there will be unwitting market demands, and we must unwittingly correct things that have been changed by the economic situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic. This must be accepted, fellow Members. If there is such an extraordinary situation that none of us expected, and none of us could really influence to reach Europe through this epidemic wave and have such negative economic impacts, we can see, as there are huge numbers of infections still growing in different areas of the world, such as the United States, then we should be glad that we have successfully defended ourselves in the first stage, and now we can talk here in Parliament about how we are trying to help the economy, how we are trying to restart the economy, what major structural and what minor clarification changes are needed to do so. I think we are talking about small and medium-sized changes here, because the Economic Protection Fund and the Economic Protection Action Plan manage the big plans and the resources needed to restart the economy. [[11.00]] In this salad law, perhaps they came together, and I understood it from the words of the Secretary of State and from the bill, because the experience of this very difficult three to four months is summarized in it, the experiences that neither one of us has wanted, but unfortunately we have gained in the last four months. Many people have talked about different parts of the law, and Mr Secretary of State has also presented several of them in his expo, and I would like to highlight one of them, namely the section on the organisation of sporting events, sporting events and sports diplomacy events. We can remember that in the pre-coronary period of peace in Hungary, various sporting events, sports championships, events and diplomatic events of international interest were held. We are obviously primarily thinking about internationals here, but there have been many events in Hungary in recent years before the coronal virus epidemic, which has positively affected the sports-loving Hungarian nation. We can see that in recent years Hungary has been able to conduct a number of domestic and highly successful international sporting events, the positive effects of which, I think, are obvious to everyone, and no one is trying to deny it. On the one hand, Hungary is a well-known sports nation because of outstandingly successful Hungarian athletes worldwide, and on the other hand, the Hungarian audience in Hungarian cities could encourage Hungarian competitors as one person in various sports disciplines, world events, world competitions or even European championships that we could conduct in Hungary. I also think that the positive result of international sports events and sports diplomacy organised in Hungary is that sports tourists, contestants and staff members arriving in Hungary contribute to the growth of the Hungarian economy, as they use Hungarian accommodations and services. In recent years, we have also seen trends that sports tourists, sports-loving people and athletes come here to visit our top tourist areas, visit different places in Hungary that we can be proud of and welcome to visit, as Hungary is full of wonderful places. The prestigious international sporting events are also excellent for country imagery. I'd like to bring you a picture. We can remember the giant-tower jumping tournament in the water world, when the contestants could jump against Parliament in Batthyány Square, in pictures of the whole world and the press, and we could see this in well-known images, thanks to which Budapest and Hungary's image and the rise in their acknowledgment were clearly seen. After that, it was possible to show that these international sporting events are suitable for attracting tourists to Hungary, and are suitable for bringing sports-loving people here, based on the evaluations published in the various press and the constant increase in the number of tourists. Those who experience the hospitality of the Hungarians here, the wonderful places, can come at other times, under other circumstances. With the re-opening of sports life, it will also be worth organizing international sports events in Hungary in the post-Coronal Virus period, as besides Hungarian sports experiences, domestic hosts, traders, services and Hungarian people can profit a great deal from it, and as I said, these people are also good for the international recognition of our country. Those working in tourism and catering will still be able to get their jobs back and strengthen their revenues if tourists come, if there are sporting events, if we can organize well-known sports events in the future. We support the government's position that in sectors that are negatively affected by the epidemic, people can retain or regain their jobs, and we do not wish to have this debate on aid policy, labour policy or social policy a few times. The current bill contains the necessary legislative changes to the 15th Hungarian-Slovak-Hungarian European Championship in 2022, that instead of the previous venue in Veszprém, the Phoenix Hall in Debrecen will be the venue of the sporting event in Hungary next to Budapest and Szeged. The bill sets out a more effective system and more effective allocation of tasks to host sporting events and sports diplomacy events, based on the experience, application and settlement experience of recent years. Sport events can be grouped into two categories. On the one hand, there are sporting events to be organised on a recurring basis, which require a variety of tasks and tasks, different structures and professional groups due to frequency, and on the other hand, there are a number of sports events that require much less, but also a specific skill and skill in sports, which are unique in the world and serve as milestones not only in the history of a nation but also in the history of a sport. Here we can remember the expression of the president of the Swimming Federation that the Hungarian water world was the best wet World Championship ever held in the history of the water world. Recognizing this, using the experiences of the settlement of recent years, the bill highlights the international sporting events organised with state support and the application and organisation of national and foreign sports diplomacy events, and refers these tasks to the role of the minister responsible for the organisation of key international sporting events. I think that these changes are justified both because of the diversity of tasks and because of the practical and effective application and because of the professionalism of the settlement. I think that we have talked about many changes in the past period, and Mr Secretary of State has explained them in detail. In fact, you can't argue with that, it's a salad law, it's an experience of the economic situation caused by the corona virus epidemic. I think that the directions that the Secretary of State has formulated and which we can read in the bill are correct. The KDNP fraction therefore supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-02-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was listening to my colleague Nacha. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I'm honored!]] I didn't even listen, I tried to understand and interpret his words. That is what I would recommend to you, as you have said that we have already had a debate on how you want to create jobs instead of aid. For the twenty-eightth time, I will personally say that we did not have such a debate, that the debate was about helping people who lost their jobs, and that in three months they would not be able to find a job or create a job for them. We were talking about these people, not a welfare-based work-based society, and I don't know what kind of a society it is. I understand that this is what you have written in your communications clichés, and that is what you have to keep saying here, but there is no such proposal from the opposition, at least the MSZP certainly didn't have. Just so we can clear this up for a second. Let us also make it clear that you have spoken about the salad law, and you have said that the experience of the virus epidemic is being screened by this proposal, which is why you are very supportive of it. He immediately gave some examples, from which it was not possible to understand exactly what the experience was. In order to say that a sporting event is taken away from the Ministry of Sports and given to another, what kind of experience has led to this? Or to change, where appropriate, the status of the expropriation, the regulation on it, or, where appropriate, to change the operation of the trust funds? I don't think there's been any experience in two months. So I think it is again that there are indeed one or two or three points in this salad law that can relate to the issues arising from the epidemiological situation, but, overall, this proposal amends 14 laws, and we see that there are a number of things in this which may not be worth bringing to Parliament in any hurry. Not to mention that part of this law was taken out at the TAB meeting, namely to amend the poster law. The only reason I want to bring this here is because the argument was very interesting as to why they would remove the amendment to the poster law from this salad law. Their argument was that the process was too fast, they could not sufficiently coordinate with the players in the sector, so they were removed from the agenda. Then let me recommend another institution to your attention, this is the University of Theatre and Film Arts. That's exactly what they're saying, that it's going too fast, that they didn't have enough time to coordinate with you. Therefore, I would suggest that this should be removed from the agenda and discussed with the representatives of the sector a little longer, because apparently, the representatives of the sector do not feel that they have been consulted at all, especially with the consequences of its content, by which I mean that they can enforce their interests. [[11.10]] If the poster law deserves this, then I think that such a prestigious institution certainly also deserves to discuss his personal fate in length and detail. Let me point out a few points... yeah, and one more thing, you mentioned privatisation. Then let me also recommend to you the sentence that public money has lost its public money character, just because the Hungarian National Bank has transferred it to a foundation, after which everyone else, even official bodies, said that public money does not lose its common currency. But if you criticized the former governments because they were privatized, and you are not privatizing, but simply robbing the public property, I do not think that will result in a much better situation, regardless of what you think, and how you intend to communicate it. Just as it is very difficult to explain why the Ministry of Sport is further weakened, why they continue to weaken the Secretary of State. He was here during the debate on the previous point; I thought that he might stay and participate in this debate, since they were withdrawing new licences from them. It is difficult to assume that the body, the government administration, which has organised numerous world competitions in Hungary over the past 30 years, regardless of the kind of government where there were colleagues working who could organise this not once, but a hundred times, then why suddenly have to take away the responsibility, the right and the tender of these major events from this State Secretary. I can only assume that the reason we are talking about a lot of infrastructure development here is a lot of money, and perhaps where this current driver's license goes, there is greater confidence, and perhaps you will be able to handle it better, this new administration player is responsible for the demands of friends, so that Lőrinc Mészáros and the people appointed by you can always win infrastructure development so that they can participate in spending the money. So it seems to me that there must be money behind this again, some kind of financial operation that you want to keep more private. The same question, and I would ask Mr Secretary of State about it, and I would be honored if he did not wait for the end of the debate, but if he waits for it and then responds, I would also thank him for his change in expropriation. So it is written that, if I understand the text of the law correctly, it can be enforced even for projects that are already underway, so it is also relevant, in current real estate, which are these real estates, or what justifies this amendment. I ask you completely neutrally, there may be something I didn't understand or understand correctly, but this change seemed meaningless to me. Nor did the explanatory statement reveal why the expropriation process should be changed in any way, and what the real estate, real estate ensembles may be, if any, already subject to this law, and, if any, what kind of expropriation the government is planning there, which requires such amendment. The third thing I would like to mention is that, in our understanding, the situation with trust funds will be far more opaque than it was before, which is why it doesn't exactly help transparency and easier orientation. Here, too, you are bound to have that little bell ringing in your head, and you're saying that there's probably some kind of asset transfer here, some kind of asset trick that serves your economic and financial interests. For this reason, the MSZP cannot, of course, support almost one point of this amendment, or at least not in this way, as a salad law. And let me highlight one more. This is the Mathias Corvinus College, which has been given such support, which is amazing, because it is visible that people who are dear to you have founded this higher education institution, and apparently, I would like to solve their problem very quickly for a very long time. And if that wasn't the exception, it was the rule, it wouldn't be a problem. In Hungarian, if all the other Hungarian higher education institutions were strengthened in this way, with such material potential as they have put behind this institution, then I think that everyone would be happy in Hungarian higher education; but so that it is only a support for a buddy institution, so it is certainly unacceptable in this form. So just because of these arguments, I must say to you that the Hungarian Socialist Party faction will not support this salad law in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-02-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-63	Dear House, Indeed, the earlier sad but elevated mood vanished, because this bill was not worthy of any kind of grace or support. If there is something exhausting the concept of abusive legislation, then this bill is absolutely this category. Let's start with the circumstances. The High Government has decided to submit a bill on Monday of the last week of the extraordinary session, which it would like to take to the vote on Friday. In addition, I will now propose amendments to laws of the type which, by the way, are in front of this House, not exactly available, but in your time it can be considered normal in a four-week parliamentary negotiation system. In other words, four weeks ago, the government had not thought, let's say, of what else it would like to write in the sports law, of what the government did not think of what it wanted to do with the entry into force of the poster law or what its intentions were in the Higher Education Act. This in itself shows that if I am benevolent, they have no idea what they are doing, rushing around and bringing in legislative proposals; but I am not benevolent, quite frankly, they do not deserve to do so; rather, they want to push a proposal through Parliament where they want to hide things that they have not dared to do in a normal legislative procedure, even with the number of proposals, the number of amended laws. This absurdity was further enhanced by the fact that, with the support of the government, on the proposal of the extremely creative and hardworking government representatives, a series of proposals had been submitted to the Legislative Committee, which had yet to rewrite the proposal for Monday. They were supported by the government. The government thought something on Monday, submitted a bill, thought otherwise on Wednesday, and supported another when it arrived at the Legislative Committee. Let me tell you my favourite, because it is primarily interesting from a legislative point of view. In the case of the proposal on the Foundation for the Corvinus University, I managed to do that brilliant filth, if I may say Fülig, citing Jimmy's illustrious words, if I remember the author correctly... Sorry, the author, Jenő Hidden, of course, but I remember well who he attributed this saying to. This brilliant filth was about the fact that the current text of the law was tabled in the bill on Monday as an amendment. Thus, in the case of the Foundation operating the Corvinus University, a proposal was submitted to keep the current text of the law. It's a legislative union, I think. Then, in the Legislative Committee, a proposal was submitted to remove the text of the law, thus this pointless amendment, and showed the real intention, where, by the way, the real intention is to manage the inapplicability of the trust fund for higher education in a kind of way, and later it is written back in this text of law that it is, however, a trust fund, but this trust fund does not have the rules on which Mr. Secretary of State talks here in long, flaming speeches about the benefits of the trust fund for higher education. Now it is written that yes, yes, but these trust foundations do not function, or this foundation is a real trustee in higher education, but can only carry out an economic activity in accordance with normal foundation rules in accordance with the aims of the Foundation. We could talk about that, and it makes sense. We just said in the debate on the bill that it is not good that the economic activity of the foundation is not regulated, and that is a serious risk, but it is absurd once again that a virtually bogus amendment has been tabled, and this has now been replaced by the real amendment on Wednesday. This is one of the most elegant but less harmful proposals. I would like to talk about two proposals, one of which is incredibly hypocritical and the other is particularly harmful. [[11.20]] The hypocritical proposal is to amend the entry into force of the Poster Act. What's happening? At the time when the opposition still had a way to buy posters and appear on billboards in the country, you brought an otherwise unconstitutional tightening regulation about it, because you did not have two thirds of them at the time, so a regulation was introduced in a half law that made it impossible for the opposition to appear in posters. And after they had thought of the 2018 election, this regulation was then put into effect so that certain rules would enter into force immediately, but other rules would not enter into force until the end of 2020. [[To intervene:]] So, that truth hurt you back in the day, and that's how it was solved. What just happened? In the meantime, relations have changed, the State Audit Office has been sent to the parties, virtually by state means, misplaced resources that parties could devote to political advertising, and now you have no interest in this kind of restriction, so the negotiation has become extremely important. So after five years, they suddenly remembered, or after three years, sorry, they remembered that they should still consult with the actors. That's why they're pushing it out. For how long? Until 2023. Who'd believe it? Right up to 2023. By chance, there will be elections in 2022. Thus, by 2022, we will be happy to enjoy the government ad and lie tunes on the billboards, and, of course, Fidesz will have the entrepreneurs who will benefit greatly. What's happening? Fidesz is giving them a present. This gift, of course, is just that they've been spinning the cat so far, and now they're letting it go, but they're still making a change that's gonna make a lot of money for advertising companies. How can I put this delicately? I said something almost harsher than that, but let's be polite, modest and realistic, I wouldn't be surprised if the Fidesz and, of course, the KDNP could show a lot of billboards in the next election campaign in exchange for this little favor they're doing to advertisers. Now that is the political interest, they bend the legislation to that. The other regulation is the rule on expropriation. In itself, the regulation is rather insatiable when you say that what the government considers to be a priority investment can essentially take over any property if you feel like it. In the Legislative Committee, another one has been twisted on this matter, because now it does not need to be classified as a priority investment, and the Government will decide in the spatial planning regulation that this is an important spatial planning goal and can possess anything. If the government so favors me to give a very lifelike example that, for some reason, for some well-understood financial reason, it is important for someone to say that the Galvani Bridge should be built so as not to give an example that would be completely lifeless, and to build a network of roads on the Pest side, which is controversial over it, we know this, because wherever it is led, it is a great environmental burden; the government will decide in a spatial planning regulation that it is important to him, and that the property concerned will be taken away from everyone, and that he will build what he wants. What's this rule about? For spatial planning reasons, there has been a way to expropriate, only to date it has been subject to legislation where municipalities have had a say. From now on, the government, the almighty and omniscient government will decide, take, finish, pass. The local authorities have no say in this matter from now on, and of course we know what that means from your investment practice. It means that people who live there, whose lives are ruined by such an investment, will have no say in anything. Finally, let me say a few words of friendship about the sport law and the amendments to the sport law. We understand that this is the Prime Minister's obsession that instead of real government successes, he likes to have large international sporting events and be present there. There is practice in this, Mr Nacsa has already mentioned a gentleman who, for example, has staged an Olympics to open it. Our Prime Minister also likes to shine in this kind of role, he likes to be on big sports events, he likes to be a great friend of sports. I have to say that of course, for example, the water world must have been enjoyed by a lot of people, we enjoyed it in this country, it was very spectacular, our heart was glad that it came to Hungary, I think. Let us not forget, however, that since Congressman Nacsa boasts that, by the way, the water vb cost two and a half times more than the original cost, almost two and a half times more, forty billion were originally planned in the original government decision, and that this bill ended up at over 130 billion, and, by the way, it was much more expensive than the cost of similar international competitions. He's a little bit involved in the fact that, in addition to propaganda steels, there are some material interests involved in supporting big sports events. They come in handy in such a case with reference to the important international sporting event - uncounted billions spilled out of the window to the business community in friendly relations with you. We know who will win the investments, who will win the public procurement, who will build the road network. Once again, you can shovel a lot of public money out of the window, and now you're creating a legal background for that, giving me additional discounts. I have to say, of course, it's good to organize big international sporting events. Of course, it is a good thing that international organisations, even sports organisations, come to Budapest, only at this price that it costs taxpayers, is not worth it. In addition, the Budapesters gave a very clear opinion on this in connection with the Olympics. It belongs only to the beauty of the matter, and it is also found in this bill that, by the way, the government can distribute candy and whips in this respect. In this proposal, they were angry at Veszprém for something, and now they're giving the handball hall to Debrecen. Obviously, it was an extremely well-founded sports professional decision at the time to appoint Veszprém, by the way, Veszprém is one of the country's most patinated handball workshops, and now they have decided not to become a Veszprém, perhaps not without linking Lajos Simicska to disgrace, but not to become a Veszprém, but to be a Debrecen. There are better comrades in Debrecen who are more worthy of support. That's how sports support works for you. All in all, I can therefore say that this is unacceptable and outrageous, in detail harmful and unthinkable in the way the bill is presented, in the way it is negotiated. We cannot support it, I really must say that I do not trust that you will withdraw it and not vote for it. They're obviously gonna vote for it. Oh, I didn't tell you about one. Sorry. I'll bring that up very briefly. I've got some time left. It is also wonderful that the law on higher education is the most serious reform of Hungarian higher education in relation to trust funds in recent years, converting public universities into private universities, now seven. And you have been able to think about this so well that we have once amended the Higher Education Act in the spring session, and tomorrow we will amend the Higher Education Act again in this regard, and otherwise this proposal will amend the Higher Education Act for the third time. Can't you think about what you'd like to do first and then bring legislative proposals to Parliament? I think it's in your interest in the longer term, not just for the country. Finally, of course, I understand that Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa's pain is that Imre László won the XI. I would like to say that Mr. Mayor has apologized for this unfortunate statement and that we will leave it to the electorate to judge his mayor's activities. It's none of your business. I think that's your decision. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have one good news for you, and I will not talk much about this law, and in return I will have a few questions for you and for you, and I will also think of the pro-government representatives here. [[11.30]] I thank my fellow Member for this very detailed and exhaustive presentation, and I do not wish to repeat these thoughts here on the last day of the extraordinary session, but let us say that I agree with 80 percent of what the Member has said. At the same time, my former best-selling fellow Member referred to the form and ignominious manner in which this bill was presented, that State Secretary Balázs Orbán in his expo practically apologized for bringing such a freak or political Frankenstein before us to amend 15 laws at the same time. There was no such thing. I believe that this is a tiny step forward in the fact that at least you acknowledge, Mr Secretary of State, that this is very unpleasant and not really worthy of the traditions of Parliament. But what is no longer so funny, in fact, it is tragic to say that you are talking about the economic crisis caused by the Crown Virus here as a reason for urgent action. If we look at this bill, we'll find hardly anything that can be justified in this respect. And what is tragic about this is that, on the other hand, many measures should indeed be taken urgently, which, on the other hand, would be very, very important for Hungarian society to face this problem. My fellow Member, Mesterházy, pointed out that yes, one of the biggest problems is that we should help those families, the people who really could not find jobs in three months, and we should face it. It's not a charity, it's not a help, it's not an act that your ideological beliefs should be confronted with. There is an extraordinary situation, an economic crisis, and a lot of families, apart from their own mistakes, are in a situation where they have lost their income, and these people should be helped. I think that there have been a million proposals before you, and we are ready for Parliament to meet all summer and these proposals, these decisions, to be made. But a few more examples, Mr. Secretary of State. We have had a lot of discussions, for example, about the situation of water utility companies and how this particular economic crisis has made their operation difficult. They asked for a change in the deadline for paying public utilities, they didn't get it. In particular, several companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. Where are the solutions to this? I think we should take action on this right now, urgently. So such measures should be in a salad law, and we wouldn't have a word. We have argued a lot about the situation of municipalities, about the fact that the various withdrawals have caused liquidity problems in particular. It is quite clear, perhaps, Mr Secretary of State, that you do not question that the municipalities are the number one bastions of defence, and that God does not grant that there will be a second wave of this epidemic, or that there will be a different kind of disease, but it is very, very important in this situation, and it is the responsibility of the government to put the municipalities in a position where, if such a challenge is repeated or strengthened again, they can take action and take action. So we should now take measures that do not undermine the local governments, but strengthen them so that their defence capabilities can be fulfilled. Similarly, last week and this week there have been very, very interesting and exciting debates, and it turns out that the Prime Minister has also been misled; here he said that there is an epidemiological agenda on the entire railway network. This is not true, because 34 railway sidelines have been targeted and the passenger traffic has been almost eliminated, and on other, otherwise, more busy sidelines there is no epidemiological agenda, and perhaps they have not informed the Prime Minister how much more dangerous it is for passengers to be moved to a bus or replacement bus with significantly smaller airspace than to a railway car with greater capacity. So we should deal with such measures and indeed take these decisions for the sake of the people. And most importantly, I would like to conclude my brief speech by saying that it was also possible here in the debate on Monday that the Prime Minister did not know that the Budapest-Belgrád railway line had not been encrypted not only its contract, but all its documents, the various impact studies supporting its return, if any, and that Mr State Secretary and Congressman Nacsa also mentioned that the experience of the Crown Virus situation should be filtered out, and that the most important measures are related to economic protection, and one of the subtitles of the bill is that it is amendments for recovery purposes. When it comes to protecting jobs and creating jobs, we cannot go beyond spending more than HUF 80 billion this year on the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which could create 70,000 new jobs. I think that we need to look at these documents immediately, that from this HUF 80 billion, if you spend on renovating the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, exactly how many jobs you can create, and if this figure is less than 70 thousand, then we really need to call the Parliament together, this decision must be withdrawn, this project should be stopped, and this HUF 80 billion should also be used to create new jobs. I very much hope and ask Mr Secretary of State... I will do everything I can to get to know these documents. The encryption that the Prime Minister has not been informed about may not have been in the vote, and we can ask the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs for information, and we will do so, and we will make use of all legal possibilities to enable the Hungarian people to know what guarantees of return, what guarantees of exploitation and commitments you decided to spend a thousand billion forints on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary and Mr Nacsa for his opinion to support making this information or these very important documents available to the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-07-02-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we have a two-minute speech. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to make a two-minute speech. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Further speeches by Members are possible in line with the amended timeframe, which my fellow Members can monitor continuously on billboards. First of all, I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Congressman Adam Steinmetz. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the Law on the amendment of certain laws before us for administrative and economic recovery purposes, as well as on certain provisions concerning the management of assets, as well as on the parts concerning sport in this package. I would practically highlight a part of this set of proposals, and I would like to quote to you, if you will allow me to:. The Minister responsible for the organisation of key international sports and sports diplomacy events will carry out the tasks set out in the legislation on support for the organisation of major international sports and sports diplomacy events, check the use of funds, and ensure the recovery of State aid unduly used. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For this and for the rest of the text of the law, the first question that arises is: what is the economic recovery in this regard? What economic purpose does this achieve at all? But I will go on and I would very much like for you to listen, too, because I will address questions to you, and I very much hope that I will get answers to them, because we would like to understand the substance of this proposal. So I'm asking you very hard: why did you take away the task of supporting sporting events, controlling the use of funds from the EMMI? Why, so far, the EMMI hasn't checked this? In the meantime, I have tried to get an answer from the general justification of the bill, which says: "The bill now aims at a more effective implementation of the system of tasks and resource allocation, based on the experience of applying for and settling sports events in recent years. I ask you: has the allocation of tasks and resources not been effective enough so far? But I will go further, again, I quote: in its quality, there are numerically fewer, but international sporting events that require special skills and professional and sports diplomacy. But how do we understand that? Does this mean that the EMMI Secretary of State for Sport has not yet had his special skills? Dear Secretary of State, I also have concerns from an organisational point of view as to why sports matters cannot be held by a State Secretary. If a sports-loving government doesn't have an independent sports minister, why can't all sports-related matters belong to the Secretary of State for Sport, which, by the way, was headed by Tünde Szabó, who, by the way, spent his whole life in sports and sports diplomacy? That's why I don't understand why this is necessary. Is it because Mr. Balázs Fürjes and the Prime Minister's Office are embalming high-value international events? Is that really what this is about? Just to be clear, are you not satisfied with Tünde Szabó's work so far? We'd like some answers. This is also strange, because Hungary has hosted a number of successful international sporting events in Hungary over the past few years, and it has also been mentioned by my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, that the water world is perhaps the best of all time and not only he, but also the profession itself, but also from personal experience that the Budapest Waterball European Championship has also been successful not only in terms of effectiveness but also in terms of organization. [[11.40]] For this reason, I do not understand why it is necessary to take away from the EMMI and the Sports Secretary-General the organisation, control and otherwise all relevant matters of major international sporting events. Another bill concerning sport has been raised in the salad law, which I would also like to ask you about very briefly. The 2022 male water polo-Eb Why did the government abandon the Veszprém project in its preparation, bearing in mind the principle of economy? [[Nacsa Lawrence: Handball.]] While Veszprém is also a handball citadel. We don't understand. Maybe the location in Debrecen is cheaper? Will the investment be cheaper? Interestingly, if this is the case and not for sports reasons, why was it not economical and inexpensive in the case of the construction of the MotoGP track, for example? Why spend 65 billion forints on this greenfield investment in Hajdúnánás, while half of it would be possible to complete a half-finished MotoGP track? These professional arguments, as well as no tourism arguments, or economic arguments, in setting up the government's car-motor sport strategy, it seems that they did not appear otherwise, there were no considerations. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, please answer the questions, I reiterate: you are not satisfied with Tünde Szabó's work; so far, the EMMI has not properly verified the use of these resources for international competitions. Haven't you done these races with enough expertise? You weren't satisfied with these races? To understand, illuminate, please, for us, why this is really necessary. Thank you in advance for your answers.
u2020-07-02-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-69	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I just forgot to ask you a question, very briefly. Mr State Secretary, you have mentioned, too, Mr President, that the lessons to be learned from the crisis caused by the Crown Virus must be drawn, and I have mentioned here that there has been a lack of action in various sectors. I have tabled three motions myself, and I would like to ask very briefly for the Government's opinion, the Prime Minister's opinion. One is the mapping of sectoral problems in the water utility sector and the development of an action, the withdrawal of the sectoral special tax and the development of the rail network as a single system, including sidelines. If I could get a brief feedback on this, that if the government has failed to submit these proposals, then I can expect you to support them in relation to such important problems so that they can be put on the agenda and that we can discuss this. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. I stopped for a moment because it would take two minutes, but unfortunately, no one checked in for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-71	Mr President, Dear House, Presidential attention is above us, and I always appreciate that. And I certainly do not wish to abuse the opportunities given by the time frame, because I feel that I have heard a very strong opinion and stand-out in the keynote speech. At the same time, I do not wish to be rude and repeat this. With my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, despite appearances, we have common points, and I am glad of that, by the way. So when I hear from you positive comments about national sentiment, I remember the nineties, when I was still a member of the MIÉP's youth department against real Soros organisations; that on the street or at various congress and conference venues, it was chosen by its position and nature. Then the Fidesz was still a little different. I'm not addressing this to KDNP. I'm addressing this to Fidesz. So, obviously, when they got a scholarship from the person they were fighting now, I was socialized in standing up to various civil society organisations that live in open society. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: What happened?]] So it warms my heart to hear strong national and positive comments. I'm glad you're showing up, at least rhetorically some of the public figures on this site. But the reality shows otherwise, and that is my problem here, my fellow Members, is that state wealth has increased by one and a half times since 2010. So they're making allegations in economics that are going to fail in the first hour, which are simply outrageous and ridiculous. I am not addressing this to you, my fellow Member, because, I tell you, it was a compliment originally, but the reality and the facts are so different. In 2010, this government had a promise and, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you with great respect to find out where this promise is going, promised a national inventory by the then government of Hungary. If I remember correctly, Fidesz won the elections, so this promise is still, although there have been more government formations since then, it is accountable to you. This national inventory has not been completed since then. A list of certain state assets has been made that the Government of Hungary has imported here as a kind of asset inventory. This one, let's say, didn't have the Chain Bridge on it. So, interestingly, in your world, the Chain Bridge has been left out of national wealth. Fortunately, Parliament's building was part of what we were arguing about, so we don't have to feel in a black hole like this. But I have to say that national wealth, according to the definition of the profession, is very much beyond state wealth, so the various assets, investments and other possibilities of businesses are also to be included, there is a specific system of requirements for this area, drawn up by the profession. In 2010, the Government of Hungary made a promise to do so and failed to do so, and there were very unworthy situations. So when, four or five years ago, Parliament debated the extent to which Hungary's reserves of gold and precious metal were, in what value, the pro-government fellow Members, State Secretarys and Ministers could not reply. So we're arguing about state or national property, which is far from the same thing, so they don't know how much family silver. We have to say that we have to make statements that the scale of something has increased by one and a half times, that we should know the base, we should know the percentage of the 100 percent, and Hungary has missed this job. I wish they'd gone through with it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: There was even inflation.]] We have one more question to discuss: this is a question of aid versus work and easier access to wages. We in Jobbik did not make a secret of basically rejecting a social policy based on aid and focusing rather on easier access to wages. At the same time, it must be seen that an epidemiological emergency is part of the 21st century. It requires centuries of thinking and thinking, for it must be recognized that the masses of people are now in a situation where they have lost their livelihood without their own fault. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, we now have a philosophical debate to settle. We believe that the worker is useful to the national economy as long as he pays taxes, can work, otherwise we see him as such a scorned, aided something, or do we think that he has concluded a social contract with his country, and that under this social contract, of course he works, pays taxes, pulls the cart of this country on his back... But, my fellow Member, is not part of this social contract if the person concerned is in trouble, then we provide him with at least a citational respirator? If appropriate, the unemployment benefit is provided, say, for a two-to-three-fold period, and we increase the amount, precisely so that the person concerned is not constantly dependent on social transfers, but is able to return to the productive taxpayer sphere as soon as possible. I can fully identify with the idea that we should not consider this temporary assistance as a policy based on aid. This is an analogy of the provision of a ventilator for the patient and is intended to be able to return to the primary labour market as soon as possible. What I see is that in the case of all social groups, you lack this positive attitude. If we only go to the cataclysms now, tour guides, language teachers, various specialists in tourism, the catering industry, are out of the loop, so that perhaps we can agree that they have lost their livelihood without their own fault. You can't tell these people that for three months they're not sure they're gonna get any help, because there are also conditions for them to receive three months, and half of the people involved are out of this condition, so you can't tell them that for three months we might provide something, otherwise solve it yourself. This is a situation that calls for literal national cooperation, and I would be calm if the Hungarian Parliament could formulate these national minimums, and indeed there would not be an employee in Hungary who felt left on the side of the road or let go of his hand. And I see that you have no message for these workers. And if we are talking about the economic recovery package, we need those who are in trouble to get the economy up and running. [[11.50]] I would conclude a strategic contract with all Hungarian employees, not just like you, with the multinationals and a large employment agency, and then organize the import of foreign workers to Hungary. Here are the Hungarian people who should be given a helping hand, which is what I expect from you. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-02-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think that there may be common points, but this is not going to be political activity in the '90s, because I was in kindergarten at the time, so don't expect me to have that in common. As far as the country's assets and national assets are concerned: in 2010, the state's assets amounted to HUF 11 650 billion, which is HUF 17 743 billion by 2020, an increase of 52 percent, everyone can calculate; 62 percent of this property is real estate, 21 percent of the company's shares, and the remaining part is made up of various assets, works of art and other data. There are 600 companies in state-owned, very clear figures. I recommend the országleltar.gov.hu page to your attention and the various real estate and corporate portfolios on the Hungarian National Asset Management page. Contrary to the fact that the Socialists sold and sold 180 companies, 600 companies are state-owned in Hungary. We bought back in strategic sectors, in utilities, waterworks, energy, banking and financial sectors where it is very important to have Hungarian national ownership both strategically and nationally. By the way, you can find all these numbers using the Internet. Also, don't take it personally, but when you say something about political Frankenstein, I get the MTI image the President of Jobbik, Peter James, taking an oath with Ferenc Gyurcsány on the steps of Parliament. Political Frankenstein reminds me of that. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We're happy for you. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: At least therapeutically good!]]
u2020-07-02-74	Thank you very much. Fellow Members! I'd like everyone to talk about the bill, if possible. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Mr President, therapy is also important!]] I would also like to ask if someone would like to speak to the bill in its debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Mr Secretary of State, you have 10 minutes and 50 seconds at your disposal. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I'd like to answer the technical parts first, then the content questions. In the case of comments on the salad law, you may also have experienced in previous debates, I am always understanding, because Members of Parliament perform a role as a representative of the people, so they are not elected according to occupational branches, so there are also two-handed workers such as economists and lawyers. Obviously, for a non-jurist, the mapping of such a complex codification thing [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Nacsa Lawrence:]] I'd like to say it requires more resources. That's why I'm always understanding, and that's why I'm asking for your patience. [[Gergely Harvester: Shame on you! A fair lawyer doesn't put his name on that.]]
u2020-07-02-76	Congressman Harvester!
u2020-07-02-77	But, but, but, and a big but: on the other hand, when there were days available for a 40-page 10-page bill to study every opposition group leader says that they simply couldn't, and by the way, from the questions, from a few questions, that they really couldn't map out what the legislative intention of these proposals was, I can't accept it. The reason I cannot accept it is because I think that it is the task of Members of Parliament, all Members of Parliament, regardless of their political affiliation, to understand what is in these legislative proposals and to be able to give an informed opinion on them, because that is what voters have entrusted them to do. Once again, I understand that we are discussing in exceptional proceedings 15 amendments to the law, but we are talking about 40 paragraphs, 10 printed pages. So anyone who says there's some kind of legislative mess going on here has a fix, and the management of the fixation doesn't belong in Parliament, but in the medical room. If we go from the technical parts to the discussion of the content, and I have also written down the related questions here, I would like to start with the comment on the protection of the settlement image, i.e. the poster law. Here's the thing again, as in the classic joke: if he's wearing a hat, the problem is, if he's not wearing a hat, that's the problem. We are talking about the fact that, at the moment, there is a regulation in place that the opposition believes is good, it has not been good to modify it, and we are proposing to keep it for an additional three years for economic recovery and sector support. So either one claim may be true, or the other claim may be true. If that is not the case, then the criticism is not justified, but it is only about saying something negative in relation to any proposal put down by the government on Parliament's table, because that is what the party political leader receives from opposition representatives. I hope that's not the case, but it's very suspicious that that's what's behind the case. It's a question of higher education. I am fully understanding, great things are happening in Hungarian higher education, a reform and a renewal that has not happened in Hungary after the change of regime in the last 30 years. Undoubtedly, the change of model means a very serious change, but I reassure everyone: it is quite clear that these trust foundations, which have been created, are, on the one hand, more independent, because these universities have been budgetary bodies. Well, what independence are we talking about? These universities have been run by the Ministry, and now they're foundations, and they're going to be run by non-recalling board members. So if you are concerned that the independence of universities is being undermined, do not do so, but read the legislation, and if you are concerned about how the fate of these foundations will develop, look at what funding, infrastructure development and professional programme development plans there are for each university, and then you will calm down, because finally these universities will get the attention and support they deserve and that they have not received from certain governments because they have not dealt with them. Some governments had to put the economic situation in order, and after that they could invest the resources that were released and collected in the future, in support of Hungarian higher education. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The other is the question of expropriation. Although Congressman Mesterházy has gone, I would still like to answer your question. There is no confusion here, it is the fact that the right to expropriation, the right to expropriation in question, is the same as in the law in force. In this respect, there is a clarification in the proposal as to which documents are those which, in the light of which the expropriation can otherwise be decided within a constitutional and legal framework, and these documents, laws and plans include the regulatory plan contained in the Government's regulation, along with a number of other legislation. So there's nothing here to say, tangle, or, in particular, no new expropriation, especially no personal property violations. This is a clarification which, by the way, helps the work of the authorities and courts involved in expropriation, i.e. enforcers. The other is a matter of sports investment. So, I don't understand any of the criticisms involved. It is about the fact that there are sporting events that do not require more organizational, human resources, financial expenditure, with their mass, thank God, they are taking place in Hungary, and there are major international investments in sport, and there is a State Secretary at the Prime Minister's Office who is the State Secretary responsible for the development of Budapest and international sporting events, so this is what is on his card. I think it is a very logical thing that the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office carries out the tasks of applying for such high-priority sporting events of international importance. You've already mentioned how well the previous water vb went. 2020 We are also applying for water World Championships, for example, the head of that application team under the Statute Decree of the State Secretary Fürjes. [[12.00]] I think it is very logical that this type of organisational, accounting and infrastructure development professional issues should go to those who have the responsibilities, by the way. Honestly, I've never heard anyone say there was a problem, and anyone would question the competence of the Secretary of State for Sports of the EMMI. It doesn't even concern it, because this separation of powers: major sporting events, international events and domestic events, in this context there is also a division of tasks, and we are now making that clear. By the way, Mrs Secretary of State is, of course, doing an excellent job. In critical context, Congressman Mesterházy mentioned the Mathias Corvinus Collegium Foundation. I am personally involved in this, so I would like to respond briefly. So I would like to ask the Member to look at the rules on these foundations, look at the composition of the governing bodies for these foundations. What you're saying is that what business circles and economic interests you're dealing with, that's simply not true. There is information that can be verified by public disclosure. This is a talented institution, if you had participated in the parliamentary debate, in the general debate, then representatives of all opposition parties have confirmed that there is an excellent professional activity going on. [[Gergely Arató: We were just talking about no government institution of our own... the president's ringing the bell.]] and we believe that the issue of talent management is as important as the renewal of higher education. Talent management must also be carried out from primary school to the end of university education, and a national institution should be established and the modeling of universities should be continued in higher education. Mr Keresztes mentioned the issues of the water utility network and other aspects of rail infrastructure and public transport development. What I would just like to say to you here is that you do not really believe that these issues should be dealt with in a law introduced in an exceptional procedure, while criticising that we are introducing rules in an exceptional procedure? ! These are important issues, I think; if you want the representative of the government to say this on the many occasions, that these are important issues, we are also preparing, these are not just regulatory issues, but also financial issues. So the related task is carried out by the government, the related preparatory work is being carried out, and these issues may also be discussed in Parliament in due time, but I think that this should not be done in an exceptional procedural law. And what Congressman Z. Carpath said, I am always very happy to hear his speeches, because he can be a good cop and a bad cop at the same time. In one person, he makes a statement about a bad cop. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] in his first speech, he throws the hate mantra at us every time. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] So how unacceptable we are, how amazing what we say; and then you always have a second speech, and when the professional context comes and a very friendly, open tone emerges. They're always nicely separated. I see that this does not disturb the Member, but I cannot separate the offensive and insulting content of one speech from the constructive tone of the other speech, and we cannot meet two aspects at once. I would just like to propose what Congressman Nacsa has said, and I would like to propose an inquiry. So we need to look at publicly available data, and the results of the last ten years of enlargement of national assets are very clear. In the last ten years, we have been attacked in many cases by why we use budgetary resources to increase national wealth, why we bought back various corporate portfolios and talked about nationalisation in relation to certain strategic sectors. Now, either that wasn't true, because we didn't do it, or if it was true, then it inevitably follows that national wealth is expanding. So again, the two statements cannot be true at the same time. At least decide what false rumours the government is being attacked by, but then you must stick to that in a consistent manner, because you have no ear or tail. He mentioned that, in connection with the negotiation of an earlier inventory, the national property is part of the Chain Bridge or is not part of it. I don't know, but I'm not suggesting the sale of the Chain Bridge. Once upon a time, the Chain Bridge was privately owned, in 1870 the Hungarian State had to buy it back. So this government will always be the government that increases national assets, also in the case of symbolic real estate, in the case of symbolic facilities, and also in the case of corporate portfolios and other movable assets. We would be happy to receive support in this, not an attack by opposition parties, but we acknowledge that this is not something we can count on. I think my time is coming to an end. It is a clear, clear, undoubtedly sector-specific but transparent, clear, well-followed bill that brings administrative simplifications and in different sectors [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to help the economy restart, which is why I think this bill is worthy of your support. Thank you very much for the constructive contributions and constructive criticism and for your support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. Act on State tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration and on the implementation of certain improvements and the amendment of certain laws in the context of the European Commission Decision SA.50768 on Hungary's Film Support Programme. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10736. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, rapporteur of the committee. Madam Major, you have the floor.
u2020-07-02-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage at its meeting on 18 June 2020. Act on State tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration and on the implementation of certain improvements and the amendment of certain laws in the context of Commission Decision SA.50768 on Hungary's film support programme. T/10736. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains several amendments. The amendment of the law on the protection of monuments differentiates individual monuments on the basis of a value-based approach, the number of categories of monuments will decrease, there will be substantial differences in the size of the professional and legal protection related to the two categories, so that the protection of the state becomes more compatible with the individual, part-Community interests. The two categories would be given the name of the protected monument and the high-protected monument, as well as the establishment of a national memorial institution for the establishment of the right institution in order to preserve the sites of great importance in connection with the universal or national monument. [[12.10]] According to the proposal, the independent existence of the Historical Advisory Board will be terminated and its task will be integrated into the responsibilities of the National Architectural Planning Board. In addition, the proposal contains additional proposals, starting with a high demand for cultural goods in the market due to their economic and artistic value in the international space and herein. Accordingly, the European Union should prohibit the introduction into the customs territory of the Union of cultural goods unlawfully exported from third countries and Member States should therefore be able to intervene in the event of suspicious consignments and take all necessary measures to seize those cultural goods. On this basis, the bill also includes a supplement to the provisions on the inheritance penalty. Given that the rules applicable to imports of cultural goods into the customs territory of the Union differ from one Member State to another, it is necessary, in the context of this harmonisation, to ensure uniform checks on the introduction of cultural goods into the customs territory of the Union, which are consistent with the existing provisions of the Union Customs Code. Finally, the proposal includes XLIX of 2018 on State tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration. law, the amendment of the so-called Budapest Act, which would be accompanied by a new chapter under the proposal. This new chapter states that Citadel fort and its immediate surroundings, the also state-owned Citadel promenade, must be used, maintained, demonstrated and restored in the public interest. The development and restoration of Citadel fortress and its surroundings is a priority public task. The bill also sets out how Citadel can be used, which can only be used in the public interest, in a safe way and in a way worthy of world heritage protection. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-02-80	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István György, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[Dr. István György: Now.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has a total time frame of 15 minutes for this speech, as well as for speaking and closing during the debate.
u2020-07-02-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Much has been said in the thoughts expressed by the landlady. Allow me, on behalf of the government, to summarize in the closing remarks on the bill. First, in a few sentences, chronology.
u2020-07-02-82	The closing is later, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. István György: What?]] There's still a debate going on, I'm telling you, the closing is later.
u2020-07-02-83	Sorry, you'll have to admit that to my lack of routine. I'll ask you to tell me the closing word then. Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I'll ask if anyone would like to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed, and I now give the floor to the Secretary of State to say the closing word. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-02-85	Thank you very much, and I apologize again. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We forgive you.]] Thank you. First, allow me to sum up the chronology of the bill in a few sentences. The T/10736. On 26 May 2020, the Government submitted a bill with a number 2. A general debate on the proposal took place on 3 June since then, on 9 June, as referred to by the House-General, a detailed debate was held by the Committee on Culture, and on 18 June the Legislative Committee continued its legislative work, during which the intention to make further amendments to the Committee's proposal was formulated in the form of a summary amendment, in particular concerning the technical correction of the law and the strengthening of its coherence. If the Parliament supports it, it will adopt a bill designed to amend several laws. The first is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. Law, the amendment of which allows the tasks of the Műményi Tanácsadó Board to be transferred to the competence of the National Architectural Planning Board, and transforms the three-tier system of the currently 15 thousand uniquely protected monument values in Hungary into a dual-category system, thereby strengthening the protection of the state and its compatibility with the interests of the sub-Community, and facilitates the renovation of castles and manor houses in such a way that professionalism and historic aspects do not go against the background. I would like to draw attention to the fact that all opposition and pro-government members of the Cultural Committee have also supported the possibility for the President of the Association of Researchers of the Old Buildings to address the bill at the meeting of the Cultural Committee on 9 June. The government was open to the feedback of civil society and the opinions of the representatives of the profession and amended the bill. The government proposes to use the names of the protected monuments, which have a professional background, on the basis of well-founded feedback from civilians, instead of the categories of monuments and non-priority monuments, which are included in the original proposal. In addition, the proposal provides local authorities with the possibility of further protecting local architecture, as it provides an option to increase the number of local protected buildings. In the event that national protection is terminated, it will be mandatory to examine whether the conditions for local protection are met or the value of the building or place under investigation for the local community. On 17 April 2019 the European Parliament and the Council adopted a communication on the introduction and import of cultural goods (2019/880). Integrating Regulation No 1 into the domestic legal system. It is therefore another objective to harmonise legislation, as effective protection against the illicit trade, loss and destruction of cultural goods, as well as to combat the looting of cultural goods and the sale of the monuments thus acquired, can also lead to a level playing field. Due to their economic and artistic value, there is a high demand on the international market. Without strong international law measures and effective implementation of existing instruments, cultural goods originating in or illegally discovered in war zones in particular may enter the shadow economy. Accordingly, the European Union should, in particular, prevent the entry into the customs territory of the Union of cultural goods unlawfully exported from third countries because of the prohibition on terrorist financing and the prevention of money laundering. Member States should be able to intervene and take all necessary measures to seize these cultural assets in the case of suspicious consignments. Dear Parliament, In addition to what has already been said, the bill also provides that the so-called Budapest Act, the XLIX of 2018. By amending law, Citadel fortress and its immediate vicinity must be used, maintained and restored in full compliance with the public interest, and this is a priority public mission. The amendment strengthens this status of public interest, raising it to the same level as the reconstruction of the Buda Palace district, as it states that the Citadel neighbourhood can be used in a manner worthy of world heritage protection, thus excluding the unfortunately experienced appearance of private interests. Citadel's property is owned exclusively by the Hungarian State. Due to the outstanding historical and cultural value of the property, it enjoys an enhanced historic protection, a national monument of national importance. [[12.20]] It has also been protected by world heritage protection since 1987. This universal heritage protection is complemented by the current bill, which sets out the possibilities and directions for the use of the territory in the public interest. The bill also states, in order to carry out the reconstruction restoration work of Citadel Fortress, that a construction and change ban cannot be imposed on the territory, which is clearly justified by the importance of the monument: Citadel is among the national treasures of our country, which is a prominent place. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill is broadly in line with our work to preserve our country's traditions, but at the same time it provides an opportunity to continue the development that has already begun, with which the government is fully committed. I think that the bill is a good example, and here I am referring back to the meeting of the Cultural Committee, that there are, fortunately, areas such as the issue of the protection of monuments, where the pro-government representatives, opposition representatives and civil society professional organisations can cooperate with each other. In the spirit of this intention, I call on the Honourable Parliament to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-02-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the measures to be taken to set up the Rust Zone Action Areas and the discussion on the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/10746. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, rapporteur of the committee. Madam Comrade, here you go.
u2020-07-02-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 18 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the measures necessary for the establishment of the Rusty Zone Action Areas T/10746. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 7 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, During the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the housing market is affected by both immediate and radical decline in demand, the price drive and the reduction in supply of VAT relief, the difficulty in lending to banks and the narrowing of material and supply supplies due to factory shutdowns. The decline in the performance of the construction sector threatens to seriously damage the national economy, unemployment and loss of budget revenue. With the adoption of the bill before us, it will be possible to build affordable housing and create jobs in a difficult situation caused by the epidemic. Supporting the housing market solves a decade of problems. With the 5% VAT on preferential rust zones, everyone wins. The potential for housing and housing for families is significantly improved, and increased demand encourages housing and thus creates new jobs. As we will see, the proposed measures serve both social policy, economic development and urban development and environmental objectives. Dear House, The main objectives of the proposal include job protection and support for construction. With the programme, we protect and maintain existing jobs, provide income to employees and businesses, while also helping economic growth; it will be possible to heal city wounds and rehab rust zones. House building is an enhanced service for the renewal of rust zones with good transport links. Let the city be green and sustainable! By encouraging the use of environmentally friendly and climate-friendly construction technologies, methods and equipment, as well as through socially optimal implementation sites, the programme also helps to achieve environmental and climate protection objectives. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted can be supported. With all due respect, I'd like your support. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-02-88	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to address the author. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether he wishes to present the Government's position at this stage of the debate, or in the context of the closing. [[Dr. István György: Now.]] Now. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-02-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The general discussion of the draft legislation on the table amending the special economic zones and certain related laws took place on 20 May 2020 followed by a detailed debate of the Economic Committee on 27 May 2020 and on 11 June 2020 the Legislative Committee continued the work started by the designated committee. In the course of its negotiations, it adopted an amendment, which mainly contains codification and grammatical or technical clarifications, in addition to a substantial amendment being incorporated to clarify and clarify the intention of the author to ensure that no special economic zone or special economic zone in the area of the capital city and the cities with county rights can be designated in order to avoid political disputes. With the support of the Parliament, it will adopt a law that is in line with the dynamism of the large investments and capacity expansions of recent years, as it will provide an opportunity to maintain the growth rate of the country, to improve its ability to attract capital, and to effectively support its growing trend in investment since 2011. It has recently been said here, within the walls of this House, and let me quote here now that during the period 2002-2010, the total value of the investment amounted to HUF 39 425 billion, while in the period 2011-2019 it represents HUF 56 396,7 billion and continues to follow an upward trend. The maintenance, support and continuity of development are undoubtedly in the interest of Hungary as a whole, regardless of who belongs to which political camp. These special economic zones support government employment policy, job creation and help workers to work in Hungary. The draft law provides an opportunity to mitigate the effects of the large investments already mentioned at territorial level, as, in the case of the establishment of a special economic zone, the county municipality has the possibility to use the above mentioned additional resources in a targeted way to support developments and operations in the area, in particular in the municipalities affected by the investment, and here. In the future, the tax resulting from investments of more than HUF 5 billion will focus on the area rather than on the exclusive share of the settlements so far, thus helping to increase the share of other small settlements and the mobility of local communities... [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: This is not...]] that is; that the state does not withdraw tax revenue from the municipalities, this is axiom, and it is a controversial issue by many. It is also important to point out that, according to the proposal, there must be strict, defined conditions in order for an area to be declared a special economic zone. Therefore, we are not talking about automation in any way. [[Moraj and interventions on the opposition side, among them: This is not... Special rusty... Dr. Brenner Koloman: Mr. President, help me! Poor Secretary of State, Dr. István György is looking through his papers. Lőrinc Nacsa will come to your aid.]] Thank you for the warning. You may admit that again to my lack of routine, I apologize. [[12.30]] Much of my time has passed, so I'd like to say a few words about this. The bill on rust zones seeks to address a decade-long problem. Rust zones are areas that were on the edge of cities decades ago, but with the growth of cities they have become transition zones. These, typically well-placed, good transport, including public transport, were industrialised in areas such as transport facilities, large warehouses, and possibly old housing. After the change of regime, most of the original activity ceased, and for years they have been abandoned, abandoned, or barely used, and can be regarded as a stain on one of the settlements, be they any settlements. The rehabilitation of rust zones is therefore one of the most important and youngest areas of urban and real estate development, not only in Hungary, but also in all other areas undergoing industrialisation and urbanisation. Because of their potential, the values and opportunities from their location, they play an important role in the development of a city, and therefore their rehabilitation is a necessity. The capital stands out from among the settlements and not only from an economic point of view. Budapest has made significant progress over the past ten years and there are at least so many improvements planned. The aim is to make Budapest one of the largest, most livable European cities by 2030, in which I think we are on the right track. You live in Hungary, you experience in Hungary, and if you look at the last 30 years and the areas that stand neglected, rusted and unused, then I think that there is no need to explain too much why it is important for Hungary that these rusted areas disappear both in Hungary and in the counties, and it is of particular importance that rust zones be renewed, primarily for housing or other purposes. It is of particular importance that municipalities be able to develop in support of these areas with a tax reduction and a VAT reduction proposal. Before any of my opposition fellow Members debate this point of the proposal, allow me to make it clear here and now that the proposal does not exclude local governments and does not further ignore the settlement rules of the districts and the capital. Under the proposal, the government must seek the opinion of the local authorities and the competent district authorities in the capital city. You simply interpret it as a request for an opinion, what is cooperation between the government and the municipalities. The bill is not for the benefit of anyone, but for the benefit of everyone. In conclusion, I can tell you that this bill also supports government objectives relating to housing and quality of life. It seeks to make up for decades of debt by finally creating the framework conditions for the decaying rust zones, which are otherwise well situated within the city, to rejoin the city's life. It can also be seen at international level that special rules are established for these areas by the legislator or by means of specific incentive mechanisms to support investment in this area. In this general picture, the corona virus epidemic has added another twist to the story, as it is extremely important that we also give a boost to the construction and economic growth, which is also appropriate for this proposal. In view of the above, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-02-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have seven minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, who will present the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development relating to the debate in a three-minute time frame. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-07-02-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, For years, we have been trying to convince the government how important it is to remedy and rehabilitate areas contaminated by previous industrial and other activities. There are thousands of them in the country that act as time bombs, endangering our soils, our water bases, and our living environment in an unrecoverable way. To this day, the government has sabotaged the related tasks, with a maximum of one or two pretense measures. In connection with the rehabilitation of rust zones, it has also been said many times that, after proper remediation, instead of the destruction of green surfaces, as they are currently planning the MotoGP course in Hajdúnánás on a green surface, so that new developments in these areas should be a place for new developments, be they the preservers of green economy, education and culture. Compared to this, the government has now submitted a draft, citing the employment crisis and the lack of housing, which may sound good from a communication point of view, but it is about the opposite. We ask what is the attitude of the Government to lay down in a regulation specific rules of procedure, other than those laid down in sectoral legislation, in respect of the location and direct environment of this particularly public-interest investment, for the official procedures relating to the remediation of groundwater and geological media, and for the specific rules on fact-finding, intervention and remediation monitoring in the process of remediation. Why can't these regulations be recognized now? If the different rules will be milder than those in force, what guarantee can the investments in housing in these areas provide a healthy environment for those who will live there? And how does the government feel that 42 days is enough for the remedial procedure, when we know that it often takes months to properly detect pollution in one area? And how do they explain that these areas may be subject to specific rules that did not have to take into account any previous municipal, construction, heritage protection, urban, green surface or even national fire protection regulations? The draft does not mention who and from what they pay for at least nominal remediation and infrastructure development of the areas. Obviously, the taxpayers will. According to LMP, this salad law seeks to strengthen the profits of companies belonging to the Fidesz-KDNP hold yard, while further weakening the idea of local government and the protection of the environment. On this basis, the draft is considered unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-02-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-02-93	Mr President, Dear House, The speech before me was great, it contained every essential element of what we had systemicly and philosophically is our problem with what Fidesz-KDNP wants to do in order to settle rust zones, isn't that the cover name or cover story of the whole story is Fidesz-KDNP? Where did the story start? In 2010, Jobbik got into Parliament, with a very large group of 47 people, we were talking about a Parliament of double numbers at the time, and one of the first meetings raised not only the issue of housing, but also the topic of rust, so the intention of settling those wasted industrial areas, the former areas that were no longer used. This is where we talked about a lot of possible brownfield investments in the House, and there's not really a government reaction to them. But what we saw was that there were two problems. On the one hand, in Budapest, in large cities and in their neighbourhood, a large area of similar wasteland, which can be measured in hectares, is environmentally impaired or undamaged, but can be used in any way and is well located. On the other hand, there is a housing, social cataclysm or crisis. If I look at the author or my fellow members of the government, I must accuse them of continuing decades of self-destruction, of living in the future, for they were idly watching and idly watching this housing cataclysm strike hundreds of thousands of people and disturb tens of thousands abroad out of necessity. This government did not have any reasonable idea of who would pay and how to pay rents of 160,000. So you have seen such a market disturbance and dissonance idly, that Hungarian young people, families and people in difficult social situations have had to pay brutal hardcore rents for years, decades, because our government did not understand the problem that caused this crisis. In the same way, he saw not only the scarcity of the supply side, so that there are few apartments available for rent, there is no place for young Hungarians to go, and this boosts prices, but also the appearance of Airbnb. [[12.40]] It's modern, XXI. San Francisco may have been an example of a veterinary horse in overseas cities with 2000 properties removed from the market, resulting in a one and a half-fold increase in rent prices. In Hungary, more than 3,500 properties were taken out of the market only during the first period, when we started arguing about this in Parliament, and the Government of Hungary did nothing about it, did not recognise the problem again, eating our own future, leaving concrete tens of thousands of people forced to go abroad, who simply could not achieve their housing goals here. What does the government say? CHICK. I am a supporter of the CSOK, and I would like to say this, on the opposition side, perhaps not everyone is like this, and I am in favour of all sensible forms of family support. I have one problem with the CSOK: its current operating model is neoliberal. On the side of the road, he leaves complete social groups, poorer people, poorer people in incomes, and he favors 100% of those who are not necessarily in need of benefits. So the CSOK offers a full range of support for a newly built residential property, but it does not offer any opportunities for a tenant Hungarian youth in the world. And the CSOK had an entrance orbit, dear fellow Members. This was that the Hungarian youth who lived, worked and collected in the apartment was able to put together a part of the CSOK over the years with state support, housing savings, a Fundamenta contract or any contract, and this opportunity was abolished, bullied and destroyed by the Hungarian Government as another element of future survival. And that's how we got to the rust zones and the housing problem. Now, ten years later, this problem may not have been expressed in the Government of Hungary, but in one of the lobbyists it is certain that, my friends, there are tens of hectares of usable land in Budapest, someone has to touch it, because the public money is now being channeled industrially, and the entire industries are in the hands of the oligarchs near the government, but here is another virgin area, so let's touch this. And the Government of Hungary does not do what should have been done ten years ago, Jobbik worked out the program for it, only should have taken it and submitted it under its own name. We are waiting for the program, ours, the public-based rental construction program, by purchasing central materials, at affordable prices, along mass rental constructions, by renovating the vacant property stock and renting it, it could bring 5-10 thousand new real estates and residential rentals into the Hungarian market on an annual basis. This would allow a wider supply side within a government cycle that would be felt on the one hand by reducing rent prices and on the other hand by reducing the housing crisis and making these properties affordable after a few years. This is not what the Government of Hungary does. It does not provide low-cost rentals, which could be rented for half or a third of the market rents according to Jobbik's model, but provides a reduced opportunity for large entrepreneurs to use the various rust areas to invest, build, and build on their own beards with the help of taxpayers, and perhaps 10-20 percent of the built properties can also function as a rental. There is no binding requirement for this, of course it is a market economy, so there is no need to be forced into the lives of private companies, but a climate could indeed be developed to find affordable rentals in the capital and large cities. This change, this amending package, does not point in this direction, is clearly intended to favour large entrepreneurs, supposedly close to government oligarchs, who aim to exploit unexploited industrial areas for housing and other purposes. And if this includes young Hungarians and the Hungarian future, then this government will be pleased to be able to put this 10% on the billboard, but it is certain that the housing cataclysm at systemic level cannot change this proposal. It cannot alleviate the disastrous situation that tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people are forced to live with their parents, because for financial reasons they cannot even acquire a single home after the creation of a family. And in addition to the extremely low, humiliatingly low wage level, the second reason why they migrate with a crowd of young Hungarians is clearly the housing crisis, the unreachable nature of the independent home, and, more specifically, if someone tries to save it on average, they only have to crouch for 6-12 years to pay their own share of a housing loan. After that, it is still doomed to credit and repayment, under the known banking conditions, for a further decade or even two decades, while the Government of Hungary expects this situation to settle the demographic crisis. I, on the other hand, would be ahead of these problems, and with a real national rescue housing and home-building program, broadening the supply side, transferring 5 to 10 thousand apartments a year, and later making them available for purchase, I would try to keep young people at home with motivations and incentives so that they do not have to manage in a forced way in another country. Because they belong to the Hungarian country, it is our duty to provide them with all the means of life necessary for the 21st century. In the century, they can thrive here in their homeland. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-02-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-02-95	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LMP faction, I would like to comment on some points for this bill. I would like to confirm some of the points expressed as the minority opinion of the Committee for Sustainable Development. Indeed, a very big problem is the poisoned heritage that we have inherited primarily by the fact that after the change of regime, many heavy industrial or chemical plants have closed, but the hazardous waste remains, the environment has been contaminated, and we know that these problems are now a threat to the health of many people. Indeed, these areas have become rusty areas for environmental remediation, which should indeed be declared action areas, but of course it is not enough to declare them only that, but also to do something. It is recalled that the national environmental remediation programme, Metallochemia, Üröm-Csókavár, was launched in the 1990s, and that the programmes of this programme, which have been tried for years to be eliminated in a priority order, were then interrupted. In the last ten years, you have considered it absolutely not important to do something about it. The housing programme in the current bill has also been a matter of state aid for many years, and you have done nothing, except for public housing and the provision of housing for young people, of course, the CSOK for the upper middle class, and especially not for the modernisation of the existing housing stock. With this plan, what's in front of us, we have several problems. The first is the usual problem that there really was no substantive discussion in this case. If, by the majority of you, Parliament adopts the law, then it is possible to rule over the heads of the settlements. Even though there are many fields of expertise, cooperation and social consultation, the idea of a settlement is crystal-cryptized, and even though all of this is recorded in the municipal development and planning document, it is no longer interesting that the remediation of a contaminated area has its professional requirements and official supervision. With this proposal, you can now override all legal and professional requirements as you please and please, and the whole thing is just an excuse for your construction, investment lunar yard to get a big deal and profit again, to get potential good areas, so that all remedial measures will be paid by the state with public money, and they will get a tax discount for the construction. According to LMP, this draft aims to strengthen the profits of companies in your lunar yard, while also weakening the idea of local government and protecting the environment, which is a particularly serious problem today. The plan is likely to focus on the remaining areas with good location and play-over, and not on where there would be the greatest need for remediation or urban sub-central and green development, affordable housing. [[12.50]] It is no coincidence that the territories will be designated after this. Let there be no misunderstanding, we have been persuading the government for years to see how important it is for the remediation and rehabilitation of areas contaminated by previous industrial and other activities. There are thousands of them in this country, and you probably know it, which act as a time bomb. I have to say, they are incorrigible to endanger our soils, our water bases and our living environment. This proposal is not about promoting housing, it is about power and money. The LMP will not vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-07-02-96	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-02-97	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The rust zone problem itself is a real problem in every major city, including Budapest, in fact the legacy of the regime change 30 years ago. It is not possible to argue that there are properties that exist in a bad situation with good infrastructure and cityscapes. At the same time, I must mention that the framework law is very dangerous because it is buried in the implementing regulation. What we don't see is what really counts as a rust zone; it's a rating that I'm taking a good site, and I'm saying that, come on, there's a park there now, but otherwise, it's got a construction, geography number, and at some point there's a kts working, and I'm going to name it a rust zone. What's the parameter for something rusty? That's one of the problems I couldn't find. I had the opportunity to comment at the committee meeting. The other thing I would like to mention is that we are faced with different properties here. The least we can do here is local government property, depending on, I'll say it again, what we consider a rust zone, because then it's possible that a lot of municipal property will be included in this. I would just like to mention that there is a 70- or 80-acre area for the capital, the so-called Cséry colony, this Cséry colony can be classified as a rust zone. It's in a good place, the M5 and the XVIII. In the fractional part of the district, only here is what the Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development said before me that around HUF 20 billion must be spent on remediation. This has no guarantee that this remediation will be cancelled or will not be missed, who will finance it and what will happen to the purchase of it, how it will be done. If we classify it as a rust zone, it will be something like the priority economic zone, where anyone can be the owner, we put our hands on it, the highlighted rust zone or economic zone, because the alternative seems to be that there will be no major economic zone in the capital and the county-righted cities, but the alternative may be the rust zone, which is located in the county-righted cities and the capital. I would like to tell the Secretary of State, who is well aware of Budapest, that, for example, Kőbány has three such large real estates, which can be classified as rust zones, but have owners, an urban development plan, a district development plan, given what could be built there. Obviously, in most places, local authorities want to build a flat, or a building that improves the image of a city, which is worth it to the investor and is tolerated by the population. If we list some of them, as a capital city, Ganz-MÁVAG can be mentioned, it is also a possible rust zone, I repeat, I do not know. I don't know how many owners he owns. It has many, many owners, so it's really not possible to move forward because of the problem of ownership. This is like the share ownership of agricultural land, so that as far as the owner of a certain area, let's say, a hectare can hold up to 200 shares and no one can do anything with its land. That's pretty much the case with all these people. This is the area of former closed factories. But we could mention the plant oil factory, which has been there for 30 years, the leather factories, the weaving factories. I think there are also some former Soviet military barracks that might be classified as one, we don't know that it is, and there are closed hospitals. What the rust zone is, no one in this law will know. Take, for example, Obuda, the Gas Factory is here, I don't know how many times government decrees have been issued, there has already been a tender for the recovery of the Gas Factory and, of course, for its remediation, but nothing is happening, and now it turns out in the amendments that the Government has previously supported the remediation of the Gas Factory. So, for example, we do not know under what circumstances it will be used. Overall, I think there is a law before us that in some places is a real problem, a city-wreaking problem, but one that we did not discuss with the city, none of which I included the county towns concerned, we did not discuss with the districts in the case of Budapest, and we do not feel coordination with the implementing regulations. The main problem is that there has been a recent amendment of a municipal law in a salad law, in connection with the debate before us, there is also the fact that the districts have municipal protection plans, there is no mention of how this rust zone can be adapted to them, and the districts also have spatial planning and spatial development plans. To conclude, I would like to mention that we are obviously adopting a law that is not in agreement with foreign owners, joint venture owners, many private owners, in one place or another with local government owners. I would like to agree with the speakers before me, I fear that there will be one such property for foreign workers, who will replace the labour shortage in Hungary, and there will be various actions for which these rust zones will be good. We can't support it. I apologize, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-02-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mátrai, on behalf of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, ma'am.
u2020-07-02-99	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to speak. I wasn't prepared for it, but it's because I want to say first of all that I'm not a metropolitan resident, I'm a country representative, which I'm very proud of. I am present on behalf of the town of Kaposvár, a town in Kaposvár with nearly 70,000 inhabitants. When I listened in the Legislative Committee to the Rust Zone Act and to the professional presentation of urban rehabilitation, I honestly thought that this was a fantastic step forward. I am stunned to listen to my fellow Members on my right or to my left, who are not happy about anything good, and in any case only express criticism. We in the countryside always think that if a city, a settlement, whether it is a small town or a larger settlement, is enriched and beautiful, it will make us all feel better, our children feel better, families are positive about this issue, and it will create an opportunity that not only creates jobs, it will not only create financial opportunities, it will enrich that settlement. [[13.00]] I looked into it, because I do not know what we called a rust zone in Budapest and where these areas lie, because I am not so familiar with the problems of the metropolitan areas or districts, and I found a map, and I printed it, and I went to the Legislative Committee and listened to the presentation, which I consider to be a wonderful thing. I can see that this map only shows the larger rust zones or areas referred to as brown areas, which are also in Buda and there is also on the Pest side. I tried to add now, as I listened to the speakers before me, about how much land they called the largest is occupied, and that means nearly 700 hectares, exactly 698.4 hectares. It's a huge area, well, it's something quite amazing. When I think about these areas ugliness the city there, they appear as a huge wound in the territory of such a large capital, and there is a government that decides to create an opportunity to heal these wounds, create opportunities for green areas, create an opportunity to build homes, not just to mention who will build the apartments. That will be decided on the basis of public procurement. What is important is that it offers young people the opportunity to obtain cheap, 5-percent apartments with reduced VAT, the opportunity to get better air in the city instead of those slim areas that we don't know what their soil is, because they were factory areas, you can see from these district maps that I have printed out what areas they are. So I think that everyone should be pleased that the government has thought that it will make the city more livable, livable and beautiful, because it will give young people the opportunity to create jobs, to have fun, to play, to make the environment more livable and livable, which, at the moment, is really only uglinessing these outer districts. I am sure that the residents will also welcome with great joy and devotion that they will finally live their lives in a very nice, habitable environment, with their families. I can honestly say that this is how we people living in the countryside take on rehabilitation, even if an area may be added to the area that affects such a rehabilitation area during expropriation or removal from cultivation. We all feel that what is beautiful and useful is always a goal to be supported, because it serves to build, enjoy, build up and serve all of us. I would very much ask you, fellow Members, on the opposition side, to try to think about what you would do if you lived on the brink of these rust zones. Wouldn't the most important thing be to finally have an environment, something beyond the line in this wonderful capital, which is not only designed to develop the city centre, but looks beyond it? The city-building team that thought this whole thing up and asked for the government's support can go a lot further. And the government will give it, and there will be a miracle in this city that no one has ever said anything about before, at most wagging his head and avoiding that area, because he thought it was terrible that he belonged to Budapest, and that he was called something brown or rusty. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say.
u2020-07-02-100	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2020-07-02-101	Thank you, Mr. President. It is just a question of lightning, because the general debate did not reveal exactly what it meant by asking for the opinion of the municipalities. Secretary of State, about the preparation of the law, which associations of local governments have been consulted and the minutes have been made available? I would like to point out, in connection with the speech made by Mrs Vice-President, that we can be pleased with a great deal of what is in the justification for the legislative proposals tabled by the Government, but the experience is that it is not usually what is written down, declared, and here the guarantees are important. As a representative of Kaposvár, you will be able to consult Karolly Szita, President of the County City Association, on his opinion. I suggest you do that. I think this bill looks a little different from a city councilman's point of view. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-102	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2020-07-02-103	I don't have much time. I would like to respond to Mrs Mátrai. Congresswoman, if this rust-zone thing hadn't come in to build a house, behind which you could suspect a lot of things, it would have come in because there are thousands of contaminated environments in the country, where the soil is threatened, where drinking water is threatened, we too would be happy. But nothing happened. You have stopped this remedial programme for many years. Now it's suddenly important? Why? Why is it not important for people's health in the countryside, and why is it not important to solve the problems that have been going on for tens of years, and that is not going to cost as much as it used to, but will cost people's health? And this will be nothing more than the fact that for those interested in your moonyard, and probably for Lőrinc Mészáros, we do not know who these areas will be played to, and they will not be properly compensated.
u2020-07-02-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. István György: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-02-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Much has been said in the comments, oligarching as usual, and there has been a demand for a rental program on this draft law, various problems that this bill does not solve. I also believe that this should be approached from the point of view of what is the purpose of this bill. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's exactly what we said!]] It is a matter of identifying areas of action in the Rusty Zone. We talked about recent years, ten years and the rest, but this debt is not 10 years old, but at least 30 years old, because it has been a problem since 1990 and can be counted on by any previous government. This government wants to do something now. He would like to do so; he would like to repair the 4 thousand hectares of rust that is found in Hungary, and of which, as far as I know, there are 3 thousand hectares of land in Budapest, these are ugly landscape wounds of Budapest, ugly landscape wounds of the counties. The government's intent is to do something about it. This is, of course, about the mention of various oligarchs in opposition readings, about the benefit of business circles. I think it's obvious that these are statements from the opposition side, but the goal is to get these rust zones to be dealt with after 30 years. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: We should have started 10 years ago!]] And let's get these landscape wounds out of here. That is the purpose of this proposal. According to the proposal, there is an area of action in the rust zone, an immediate area of action in the rust zone and a medium- and long-term area of action in the rust zone, which the government must seek the opinion of the local government and the opinion of the competent district authority in the capital. Obviously, if an area is selected and contaminated to such an extent, you can be calm, Congresswoman, there will not be housing built, and people will not move into conditions where their health will be seriously threatened. But in areas where these can be resolved, of course, the renewal of these brown areas and the removal of stains of shame will begin. It has been said, and I would like to say that it is an extremely important public interest objective to take into account environmental and nature protection aspects. The bill allows the establishment of specific procedural rules other than those laid down in sectoral legislation in the field of groundwater and geological remediation procedures. Its aim is to speed up and make procedures more efficient, but these do not affect substantive rules. There has been no change in any of the rules of financial law. So where there is a type of situation that imposes an obligation on an investor, on anyone else, laid down in substantive law, it cannot avoid doing so, it is obliged to do so. It is only about changing procedural rules, not about material ones. It aims to optimise the remediation process, to carry it out effectively, and to optimise the costs of remediation in full compliance with Hungarian and EU rules. [[13.10]] Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát takes note of how much better it is to find other solutions with the rent-apartment scheme, which is their proposal. This is not a rental-building programme, and it is not trying to solve that problem. Undoubtedly, this problem also calls for a solution; it has been calling for a solution for 30 years. The examples of you in Vienna and the oligarchs are linked to the fact that in Vienna there is one owner of a significant number of apartments, not a community of condos, which is impossible, and it is in the interest of the only owner to keep the building, the apartment in a state that can be inhabited, and, of course, there is a way for him to rent his apartment to people who can afford it, and the balance can be maintained. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Not an oligarch, but a local government.]] So we're oligarching here, and there are oligarchs holding the buildings. [[Z. Carpathian on Daniel's mark:]] Of course, perhaps Congressman can swing his head, I'm sure every sentence has an explanation of ten sentences, which, of course, can be explained in some other way. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: You didn't pay attention, Mr. Secretary of State. He wasn't paying attention.]] But the thing is, it's not about building apartments here, it's about having a 5-percent discount VAT, which, I stress, will not benefit the builder, but the individuals will be the beneficiaries. So the program itself is really about removing landscape wounds, and any rust zone, brownfield area, where this can be solved, and based on exploration, either as a rust zone action area or as an immediate rust zone action area, or as a mid- and long-term rust area action area, these investments are launched. And since the supply market in the housing market is no longer as it used to be, it certainly provides a new opportunity for young people and all those who wish to obtain housing to obtain housing with more favourable conditions. The CSOK has spoken here several times, the baby shower support has not been said, but there are few countries, I cannot say anything, where, say, 20 million forints can be paid to build their own apartments, and families get housing. All the family support decisions made by the Hungarian government to support families and children are also unique almost worldwide. This part of the rust zone is also connected to this, since no more than 150 square meters of housing can be built, and obviously it is also suitable for the maintenance of their prices, on the one hand, of the size and, on the other hand, of the 5 per cent VAT. The government is giving direction to the possibility of exploitation by not providing all of these areas for any purpose, but by using them for specific purposes. I believe that if, in a few decades' time, this action can properly unfold, then Hungary will be proud of this, not mention the criticisms that have been heard in the walls of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-02-106	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Central European Built Heritage Conservation Foundation and on the implementation of the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation follow up and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/10954. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, rapporteur of the committee. Madam Comrade, here you go.
u2020-07-02-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 25 June 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10954 on the Central European Built Heritage Conservation Foundation and on the asset allocation to the Central European Built Heritage Conservation Foundation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The power of a nation lies in its ability to convey to posterity all the tradition, culture, memory that the man of present times inherited from his ancestors. The bill on the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation and on the grant of property to the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation serves the noble purpose of bringing the foundation to life to support the survival, preservation and maintenance of buildings with an important heritage for Hungarians, which are not protected by Hungarian monuments or monuments. It is undisputed that this is our common cause, with which, if you will, we are doing great service to posterity. It is well known that the situation of Hungarians in Europe is special, since our ancestors have also given us a tradition of built heritage that would most likely become annihilation in the near or far future without the care of the mother country. Now many buildings can be saved. But if we don't act, in 5 to 10 or 15 years, maybe we can only find the ruins. The financing of the already existing task will be significantly transformed by the creation of the Foundation and by the allocation of assets to it by this bill. Dear House, I'm confident that this will bring the Carpathian Basin backup to a higher level. In my opinion, self-management can provide a sound and stable financial background for the Foundation to carry out its task. In view of what has been said, I ask for support for this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-02-108	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak now or later in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to present the Government's position at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated National Assembly Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Márta Mátrai, has already indicated in his speech before me the particular situation in which Hungary is in, the particular situation in which the Hungarian nation is in. After all, the current Hungary borders on itself, and the built heritage and a very good part of Hungary's artistic heritage is beyond our current borders. A thousand years of history has been lost beyond today's Hungarian borders. The preservation of this thousand years of history, I think, is one of our most important tasks. Regardless of parties, regardless of ideology, I think that it is the duty of all Hungarians, and that this duty must feed on the inside of us, from our hearts, from our souls, when we say that it is our duty to preserve it, and it is our duty to give this heritage to our offspring, so that they can see what this nation has created in a thousand years, which has been stranded outside our current Hungarian borders. I think that it is a very big problem that we have not dealt with this for decades. When we cross the border and go either north, west, south, east, we find Hungarian memories everywhere; Hungarian memories everywhere, sometimes 500-600-700 km away from today's Hungarian border. And what we see now is that a lot of these memories are really crumbling, grass or wood growing on top, the roof is breaking, the wall is crumbling, the plaster is broken, and if we don't do something, eventually it's going to be a part of extinction. And if we go there and take a closer look, and don't give it to us, God, even in its past we'll get lost and look into it, and we'll find out which large Hungarian family built the castle that built that church, or which king gave it money, so that this monastery will be built, and what historical Hungarian events are connected to the walls, what kind of poets have been there, what painters have been there in the last century, who have been inspired by this wonderful Hungarian work, then we'll know more about it, and then we'll feel even more that yes, this is ours; our history, a part of the greatness of our nation, and this is a sacred duty of all of us, I think. [[13.20]] I am pleased that this initiative is also an initiative aimed at this, although I have already expressed my objections in the general debate that the idea of the foundation in itself is very good, but I consider the amount of money to be used to be very little, because of that, the foundation will not be able to preserve the Hungarian monuments, one percent or one percent of it, with such short money. At the time, I remember, at the debate on the 2011 budget, we spoke with my colleague Tamás Gaudi-Nagy in the direction that much more money should be earmarked from the budget for the purpose of saving and perpetuating the artistic and historical memories built across the border for future generations. Even then, the Jobbik Movement has formulated the need for the current Hungarian government to treat it as an important task, so that they can become the property of those who preserve it, so that they can be part of a foundational, Hungarian-bound foundation or church property, who are willing to preserve it, who are willing to continue to improve its condition, do not give it to God, yet be willing to operate it, to maintain it, to show their story, so that the visiting Hungarians can see it, and others who are willing to see the historical memory of even a thousand years old in Hungary. We think it's very important that we have these, that they stay. However, I have also been critical in the general debate, which I do not wish to mention in detail, but I would like to point out that the protection of heritage has so largely been left out of the most important actions of the Orbán government. In fact, it must also be recognised that there are very important shortcomings in the area of heritage conservation, and we have seen very important cuts in recent years, since the Cultural Heritage Office has been abolished, several institutions have been removed, and in many cases policy has taken over decision-making in this area, and politics has primarily not taken decisions in the light of professional arguments, but has tried to meet political expectations. This is why we have talked about the fact that in the area of heritage conservation there have been some prestigious investments, which the government or the Prime Minister considered to be of particular importance, and in many cases the cultural professional arguments that should have been taken into account have not been taken into account, and perhaps the heritage office has been abolished in order to avoid the contribution of an office or the contribution of a company close to NER to some major investments, where the fate of hundreds of billions or even more money may have been affected. I think that money cannot be placed in any of the pans of the balance sheet here, because we are talking about our national heritage, it is about national heritage protection, and this is more advanced than anything else, and I am glad that this is finally going to happen, and we hope that the foundation will achieve its goal well. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-02-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes of the LMP Group.
u2020-07-02-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I very much agree with Csaba Gyüre, and I also agree with Mrs Mátrai, I think that this is a very, very important task, and it is particularly important to talk about such proposals and such matters a hundred years after the outrageous Trianon dictatorship. Csaba Gyüre also said that we still have a huge task to do in preserving the Hungarian built heritage, and we really do have a lot of wasted decades on this. I also agree that the resources here must be measured generously, and that everything must be done now to save the architectural memories that would be lost if there were no intervention in this direction. I think that it is indeed one of our most important tasks, perhaps more important, a hundred years after the Trianon dictatorship, to talk about it or to act so that we can remain as Hungarians in the homeland, to stay in the Carpathian Basin as a whole. So we agree perfectly with that. By the way, as a baranyaian, I obviously go to Slavonia most of the time, and there I see the extremely degraded castles, the once glorious castles, and there I can see that there are still conservation works that could be done later. It is therefore obviously very, very important to draw funds from another direction. We also talked about a very serious problem in the general debate, that this proposal does not, however, provide for the possibility of opening the architectural heritage saved in this way to Hungarian communities living beyond the border, so that it can serve identity preservation in particular, a place for the Hungarians living in the sporadics, which can also strengthen a sense of belonging. I can say here, too, what I can say on the agenda just now is that we are very, very much in agreement with the declared objectives, we agree with what is written, we just want to see certain guarantees. Unfortunately, and I also referred to this in the general debate as an important objective, but we would like to see guarantees that are missing. So, for example, the current legislation states that the State will no longer have any influence on the functioning of the foundation, even if the foundation does not use the transferred property for its purpose. There is a condition here that the state has a pre-emptive right, but it is not well regulated. So we're afraid that the state, let's say, doesn't want to exercise its pre-emptive right, and then that property might come to an unauthorized place. We also miss the fact that there is no clearing obligation. We have drawn attention to these, that we would like such amendments to be made after the general debate, such guarantee elements to be incorporated, because they are very important that we really achieve this goal. We very much regret that these guarantees have not been included, and yet again I can only stress that this is a very important objective, and that resources must be provided, but this proposal is therefore very difficult to support, precisely because of the fact that the guarantee elements are not included. After all, I and my faction are committed to doing everything we can to save the architectural heritage that still exists across the border. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-112	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-02-113	Thank you very much. I would just like to join in the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, and I would like to say a few sentences on the guarantees, however, on how important this is. I am very sorry that this has been left out of this, because, really, in order for this foundation to fulfil the role that Parliament now intends to dedicate to it, it is also necessary to have some kind of feedback back to the Parliament. This has therefore been included in the committee debate, and it has been discussed that there should be some kind of guarantee, and it has also been proposed by a fellow Member who has asked in writing that there should be an opportunity to report to Parliament on the actions and operation of the Foundation at times. There should be a report on this every year, which would otherwise be worth considering for the government, and even if this would not happen at the plenary session of the Parliament, but it would be important at least to report annually to the relevant current committee on the work done by the Foundation. That would in any case be a matter of consideration. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-02-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-07-02-115	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for their supporting contributions and thoughts, and for their thoughts on the power of the nation. I think that anyone who has been monitoring the work and aspirations of the Hungarian government since 2010 can see and perceive that we are working to create a strong Hungary, a strong Carpathian Basin and a strong Central Europe. The work of the last ten years, I think, proves that, and not every year of the last ten years we've been able to make a move. Thank you very much for Csaba Gyüre's thoughts, for he said that if we do not do something, then the inheritance will be yours. Now we have the power to use that word once again in a different context: we have the power and opportunity to do something, to do something about this heritage, the hundred years, the last hundred years that Congressman László Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, has mentioned that we are obliged to do so. [[13.30]] The foundation's goals are formulated when the foundation is founded, and I think that there is a sufficient guarantee that the civil code and the foundation's prosecution will be controlled, so the foundation can't do anything that isn't between its goals, and the wealth that we trust will be dealt with responsibly. Mr President, Mr President, you also mentioned that you consider this amount to be insufficient. This foundation is open, anyone can join it with donations. We believe that more and more resources will be available to the Foundation in the coming years to achieve its objectives. Thank you very much for the supporting contributions and I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal tomorrow at the vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-116	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, CXXV of 2009 on Hungarian sign language and the use of Hungarian sign language. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation by Members Gergely Tapolczai Fidesz and Zsolt Nyitrai Fidesz T/10734. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-117	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Legislative Committee discussed on 18 June 2020 the T/10734. on the amendment of the Hungarian Sign Language and the Law on the Use of Hungarian Sign Language. Proposal 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 6 against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, If Parliament voted unanimously tomorrow, hopefully unanimously, Hungary would be the first state within the European Union to make the sign language a state-recognized language exam, i.e. it would also be possible to take a state-approved language test from sign language. After more than ten years of professional preparatory work, we came to this point. The National Federation of Deafs and Hearers is ready for the task. For ten years, the KER has been teaching Hungarian sign language on the basis of the Common European Framework of Reference, as is the case with any other sounding language. That would be a great prestige in the history of sign language. The adoption of the bill would be exemplary for other countries, other governments and other deaf communities. Even the creation of a register of sign language teachers would be an important step forward, and it would be a professional system to establish, after many years of work, a register of sign language teachers, like the national register of sign language interpreters, in order to make it clear that they can only be able to teach sign language under appropriate conditions, with a sign language education degree, within the KER system, within the institutions, or within specific pedagogical institutions, only at a high level. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] There is yet another very important amendment in this amendment, the question of financing the interpretation service in the field of health. More than ten years of experience and practice show that the current funding system, which otherwise works well, but in particular the health part is unrespectable. Imagine the situation where a deaf client travels from a small town in the country, say, to the county centre, asking for interpretation services. He goes with the translator to any health care facility, doctor, wherever they wait for 2-3 hours, then he kindly asks the doctor to pay for the interpreter's expenses. This situation is unsustainable, and this system has been unsustainable so far. As a result, there is no accurate statement, we do not know how much real needs can be, how many interpreted hours have been taken so far, and this amendment will settle and clarify this. On this basis, I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the bill tomorrow. It's unique in its own way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-07-02-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr President that, in addition to the presentation of the Commission's position, he wishes to speak again, in addition to what he has said. [[For signal:]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Attila Philip, Secretary of State, to speak on behalf of the government. [[Attila Philip: Then at the end.]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group.
u2020-07-02-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As we explained in the detailed discussion of the bill, we will, of course, support both the Commission's amendment and the bill on behalf of the EPP Jobbik, because it is important for us to have the welfare and freedom of all Hungarian citizens, such as the well-being and freedom of the community of deaf people and hearers, and to give them the equal opportunities that all Hungarian citizens deserve. Not to reiterate the arguments that I myself, as the former expert and accreditation expert in sign language training, have made, I would just like to make a summary suggestion that, if the parties of government and the rapporteur accept it with a good heart, I would like to offer my expert assistance in finally getting further on the common issue of training sign language teachers. With great respect, therefore, on behalf of the Jobbik faction, we grant this bill of support. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-07-02-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to thank our colleague Gergely Tapolczai and Adam Kósa for the work of our fellow Member of the European Parliament on the current law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this may be the second case today, in which there is seven-party consensus in the Parliament, as we can remember that in 2009 the Parliament unanimously adopted the Sign Language Act on Hungarian Sign Language and the use of Hungarian Sign Language without any abstention. I think that, after 11 years, tomorrow's vote on this law may be a worthy continuation. I think that my fellow Member has said the essential elements, and I would like to highlight the question of language examination. This can be a very big step forward for sign language users, and I think that, for example, in facilitating the issuance of diplomas and in obtaining different qualifications, we can make a big move forward with our judge compatriots, deaf people and hearers, as well as everyone, relatives or those who possess the sign language. I think that we have finally put an end to something from the last few years or decades, which is absolutely important that it happens tomorrow. [[13.40]] I would also like to say what my fellow Member Brenner Koloman has referred to, the training of teachers to have a vocational qualification and to be training for, for example, elementary school-age students that are fit for reality, so that they also meet the requirements of qualifications for lifelikeness, but they are also given knowledge that can be used later, and the result of which will be the language exam to be introduced now. Of course, as everyone else has said so far, we support the bill in the vote tomorrow and thank you once again for the work of the authors. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Attila Philip, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-02-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Here, too, in the general debate, much has been said about the law, so I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate for the tone and for the contributions that have been made in this law in a truly constructive way. I think it is important that decisions in the Hungarian Parliament on disability are usually taken by unanimous vote or at least by a decisive majority vote. This seems to be the case now, so I would like to thank you for your cooperation in this. Let me highlight two things that show the actuality. One is that at this time of the epidemic, we have seen that the development that we have started together with NGOs, such as SINOSZ, which means the sign language translation service of the VONACT, so that we do not have to be physically an interpreter, but that we can help this with smart tools and information technology, has now shown how good this has been, so we would like to continue to do so in the future, and this law will also serve to establish and strengthen this. In the 2021 budget, the source of this is there, so this sign language interpreter service will continue. Another aspect of this law is that communication is the basis for all disability issues in terms of job creation and the preservation of jobs, which is now particularly important. Therefore, I can also say that sign language, as a part of our heritage and Hungarian culture, is a basis for communication, without which it is unthinkable that we can really create jobs and maintain permanent jobs for this target group. So I would just like to extend it with these two aspects and thank you again, because I think it is an important law and an important amendment. Thank you for listening.
u2020-07-02-124	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Gergely Tapolczai, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-07-02-125	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] In a few sentences, yes.
u2020-07-02-126	Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Excuse me, Congressman, you have the floor. Excuse me.
u2020-07-02-127	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for your opportunity as rapporteur. I ask the same as my fellow Members who spoke before me, for their support in the vote tomorrow. As the Secretary of State has said, it is of great importance to adopt it: a large number of sign language users will be able to apply for language tests, thus making it easier for them in the labour market. The other is the area of education. It will be of great importance, as my fellow Member Brenner Koloman said, that deaf teacher training will be carried out. Thus, deaf, affected sign language teachers can also appear in the field of education, setting an example for members of society. As I have said before, this law is unicum at European level, and I ask for your support once again. Thank you very much. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Thursday, 2 July 2020 145/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2020-07-02-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of individual laws to the 13th month's pension are followed by a discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/10741. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, rapporteur of the committee. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 18 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10741. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. Under Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, he accepted by 33 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, On 6 April 2020, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán presented in an extraordinary announcement the economic protection action plan to prevent a crisis related to the coronal virus epidemic and to mitigate economic damage, including the restoration of the 13th month pension. The Prime Minister has already stated in his announcement that the restoration of the monthly benefits abolished under socialist governance will take place at a four-year and weekly rate, according to which pension recipients will receive an extra week's pension first in January 2021, and then, as in 2022, 2023 and 2024, the retirement of the elderly will also increase by one week. The 13th monthly pension, which has been re-established from 2021 against the 13th monthly pension previously abolished under socialist governance, concerns all recipients of pensions and benefits rising in the same way as their pensions, the amount of which is not subject to a ceiling. The pension and benefits that the bill seeks to introduce affect more than two and a half million beneficiaries, thus providing a wider population with an easier livelihood. Since 2010, the following measures concerning the financial security of pensioners have been implemented: a fundamental law sets out the preservation of the real value of pensions. In recent years, pension increases have been made above inflation. Pensions increased by 38 percent compared to 2010 and the purchasing value of pensions increased by 10.3 percent. We have created the possibility of early retirement for women who have at least 40 years of insurance law. We have also achieved a social and family policy goal, as it could be possible to restore the multigenerational family model in this way. When the economic situation gave us the opportunity, Hungary's Government supported the retirement age with one-off benefits, within which our elderly countrymen received more than HUF 270 billion of pension premium, and also received a re-credit certificate, a voucher from Erzsébet on several occasions. Restoring the 13th month's pension is an initiative that must be supported by all representatives and citizens who feel responsible and respected by their senior compatriots. Dear House, The Crown Virus epidemic has rejected the performance of national economies worldwide, yet Hungary's Government has undertaken to return the 13th month supply, of course only gradually, as the national economy itself can gradually return to its good performance before the epidemic. In view of this, I would like to ask for support for the proposal for the return of the 13th month pension. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2020-07-02-130	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2020-07-02-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We find it unfair that someone who receives a million-dollar pension will receive another million forints, while, for example, a hundred thousand forints can only receive one hundred thousand forints. According to the government's proposal, the one million HUF pensioner will receive a quarter of a million HUF in a week, so whose pension is one million HUF, while in the case of a 100 thousand HUF benefit, the plus one week is just 25 thousand HUF. That is why we have tabled an amendment on behalf of the Socialist Party, and we propose that everyone should receive the same amount from the 13th month pension fund, so that everyone gets the average pension amount. If you take an average amount, you can say that you will receive a larger amount of money with fewer pensions and that the person with a high pension will receive a smaller amount. Thus, at the first payment, i.e. the 53rd week pension, this would amount to approximately HUF 35 thousand for all in a uniform manner, which would make two thirds of pensioners better than the government's proposal. At the committee meeting, the Secretary of State said that they could not support this amendment because the pension is not a social benefit, and therefore they will not be able to support this amendment, the amendment tabled by the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party. I think we should say, after all, that it is terribly unfair to consider that this benefit is about the fact that the 13th month pension will be gradually received by pensioners after a week's pay in the following year, and the amount of money that pensioners with very high pensions can obtain. Let us say that while in Hungary we are talking about how many ten thousand pensioners receive a pension below 100 thousand forints and can barely make a living from this allowance, they can get a minimum amount, and we find this unfair. We can only hope that the government will change its mind and say that it will eventually take into account the social background, how many of the pensioners in Hungary today live humiliatingly low incomes and finally accept this amendment and say that they will eventually support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-02-132	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Attila Philip, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or later. [[On Attila Philip's mark:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, rapporteur of the designated Welfare Committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is surprising to me that there is a minority opinion on such a subject, and we cannot hear a statement of support from the left, because this would have been an opportunity for repair, a supplementary examination, because the company that closed the 13th month pension now talks about the 13th month pension; Ferenc Gyurcsány took away the 13th month pension from Hungarian pensioners. Our plan now is to rebuild this, because we owe thanks and respect to the generations that have come before us, who have carried this country on their backs, for example, during the years of hard communism or even at the time of the regime change. I think we all have to thank the pensioners. It is no coincidence that in 2010 the majority of the Parliamentary Fidesz-KDNP and the government formed an alliance with pensioners, and it is no accident that we agreed to keep the purchasing value of pensions. We have not only kept this commitment, but we have been able to increase it in substance, as there has been a 38-percent increase in pension during this ten-year period, which has meant more than 10 per cent increase in purchasing power; we have been able to pay a pension premium on several occasions thanks to the performance of the economy, the government's economic policy and the work of the Hungarian people, and several times, as the Member, my colleague, has already said. It is very important that this alliance, this agreement that we have concluded with the pensioners, is respected, and as part of that, or in addition, we can now talk about the 13th month pension. We also see that we have been able to take measures such as the "Women 40" programme, with which from 2011 some 281 thousand mothers, grandmothers and women have been able to live, more than 281 thousand women have been able to make use of the "Women 40" programme; then, unfortunately, the opposition has also not supported to make it a "Women 40" programme. We believe that with the 13th month's pension, we express our appreciation for the elderly, because they have worked their whole lives off, and so starting next year, the restoration of the 13th month's pension taken by the socialists can begin. I hope that you can vote for this, because this could be the time for apologies from Hungarian pensioners. You've taken it, we'll give it back, at least you'll be able to contribute with your vote. I'm asking you to support this. If you say that you care about pensioners or that pensioners are important, then you can support the government's presentation and the Fidesz-KDNP's commitment to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, who will present the minority opinion in the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am infinitely sad that the situation has given rise to this minority opinion at all; even because what I am about to say should not be a minority opinion, but a majority opinion. What we are talking about here is not a 13th month pension, but a very ugly, propaganda-flavoured 53rd week pension, which is also taking place in the future, even though we know very well what the situation of pensioners is now. [[Bencé Tordai is replaced by Sándor Szabó in the notary seat.]] Allow me to say a sentence that, frankly, I am amazed at what your head of government has said: he thinks football is a category of art. Let's just say I think this sentence is classified as insane, but let's stick to this dimension. The real artists here, right now, in your system, are none other than pensioners, those who are trying to make a living at the end of the month from the minimum amount you give them. Here it has been said many times that basically the real value of pensions is that you have preserved it and even increased it. Then allow a completely fresh KSH data that was dated on June 30th and is based on January-April data. This shows that real earnings have increased by 4.6 percent during this period, whereas the real value of pensions has been reduced, while inflation according to the consumption basket of older people has been 4.1 percent, while pensions have increased by 2.8 percent in January, i.e. the loss in real values for pensioners has increased by 1.2 percent. Of course, this is the average and, like all averages, lies somewhere, because we know very well that the poorer people, and unfortunately, pensioners, too, do not measure inflation on the basis of this consumer index. We know very well that they mostly buy food, and perhaps only that, and on this basis, as we see what price increases we are talking about, we are talking about 7-8 percent, sometimes 15 percent. It can be said, in addition to all this, and despite the fact that the average pension once again, this is not a true figure of half of the current average salary. And here's the crisis, even though you say everything's very nice, everything's very good, and the economy is pounding. This is indeed true in the sense that it can be read that the nation's gas and mangalica mechanic Slowly, he's launching flights to his yacht, where he's taking the nation's new masters, but that's not true for pensioners. They're supposed to be helped now. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Not in January, not in a four-year perspective. Unfortunately, we will not be able to support this proposal in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-136	Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. Of course, a two-minute speech is not possible during the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group. [[14.00]]
u2020-07-02-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When I heard that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán had raised the idea of a 13th month pension, I knew immediately that the campaign of Fidesz in 2022 had begun, because it was only understandable why pensioners would not receive it now, after the epidemic, or why they did not receive it during the epidemic, when the economic crisis began to unfold, nothing. They didn't get a pension premium, they didn't get a 13th month pension this year, nothing, not even a week, and according to this position, they're not even expected to get a pension supplement this year. In addition, it was very soon discovered that the government was playing tricks, because it was not the case that pensioners would receive the 13th month pension next year, only a quarter of it. We have often said that in recent years the situation of pensioners, especially small pensioners, has deteriorated greatly, there is a significant poverty in the retirement society, but this has not been of any interest to the government. That is what the facts, fellow Members, show, because if the government were really interested in the situation of pensioners, it would not have allowed the differences between wages and pensions to increase so much, so that the livelihood of pensioners would fall so far from active workers, because the government would have changed the methodology for raising pensions for years, raised pensions fairly and would not have passed out alms labelled as bills or bonuses, which were not included in pensions. Then the government would not let 600,000 old Hungarians try to come out of less than 100,000 forints a month, that is certainly not enough to make a decent living, and if the government really cared about the fate of the elderly, it would now do for them and not postpone next year. This year's pension increase was 2.8 percent at the beginning of the year, while we know that food prices have now increased by 8.4 percent. We are all aware that in the basket of pensioners there is more Parisian, bread and milk than falling petrol prices. Have you ever considered what a minimum pension of HUF 28 500 is enough for? Did it ever occur to you that this amount should be increased for ten years and that the gap should be reduced between the million-dollar pensions and the lowest pensions? ! Ladies and gentlemen, Retirementes do not need campaign-like and misleading alms, but a real pension increase, which permanently improves their living conditions. I met pensioners who called my attention to the fact that they need a pension raise now, because I'm not sure they're gonna make it next year. This is simply tragic when they say such statements and such sentences. Nearly 100,000 pensioners die every year. To think of this, we can also say that one week's pension contribution in 2021 will be covered by the death of a large number of elderly people and their pension will provide it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame! Shame!]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] According to the LMP, instead of a facade measure called the 13th month pension, the amount allocated should now be incorporated into pensions equally. Equal distribution would also create the opportunity for those with the least pensions to catch up a little with higher pensions. The scissors are so wide open between the under-average and the million-year-old pensioners, it has to be corrected. It would be unfair to adjust a week's extra pension allowance to existing pensions. Anyone who receives a million HUF pension will receive 250,000 forints next year, and who has a pension of 100,000 forints, who really needs it, will only receive 25 thousand forints. Ten times the difference between the two. Over and over again, the LMP will demand: to improve the situation of pensioners, a strip pension increase is needed to reduce inequalities; an immediate pension supplement if inflation requires this, but not on the basis of average inflation, but on the basis of inflation taking into account the consumer basket of pensioners; a pension premium should be guaranteed even if economic growth is below 3.5 percent and that this amount should be included in the pension; last but not least, minimum pensions should be increased by 2.5 times, because the situation of pensioners needs to be improved now and it should not wait for the next year. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2020-07-02-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have heard quite amazing anti-pension speeches here from the Gyurcsány Party and the LMP. It's quite amazing that if it were up to the Democratic Coalition, you'd be taking the 13th month's pension away from people for the second time. Thank God they're nowhere near the helm, and it's not up to them. If Mr Varga's words were taken seriously, everyone would see that they had been taken away once in 2008, now they would be taken away again, not voted, so they would take it away. Congressman, do you remember that between 2005 and 2010, the purchasing value of pensions decreased by 10 percent by your blessing? The purchasing value of pensions decreased by 10.3 percent. Do you remember how many times the gas and electricity prices that hit the pensioners the most rose, even though you promised there would be no gas price increase, and the energy prices tripled and quadrupled? Do you remember that, Your Honour? And do you remember that by the time you finished your disastrous government in 2010, you were missing 327 billion forints from your pension fund? If it were up to you, you wouldn't be able to pay a pension by 2013. We would not be talking about a pension premium and a 13th month pension and a pension supplement, but we would have talked in Parliament in 2013-14 about the fact that pensions cannot be paid because you paid pensions only from IMF loans in the last year. You're here to tell us about the respect of pensioners and the help of pensioners when you've pushed an incredible amount of pensioners below the poverty line! That was your pension policy, which happened between 2005 and 2010, honourable Member. The pension fund missed HUF 357 billion at the time, it would not have been possible to pay pensions years later if we hadn't changed that, and in 2010 Hungarian people didn't honor us with their trust. I would like to point out to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck that the pension premium and the pension supplement have statutory conditions, not political will. If available, there is a pension supplement every time and if the conditions are met, there is also a pension premium. You're trying to suggest that there may not be a pension supplement this year, as if it were a political decision. There are conditions, there are legal conditions, and I'm sure you know that, but you've deliberately distorted this truth. And what I would like to say is that you, in conjunction with DK, are trying to turn a class warrior into a pensioner against a pensioner. You want to create tension in the pensioner-social layer, not thank the pensioners, but by using their class-fighter logic only, as DK regularly turns Hungarian against Hungarian, you now turn a pensioner against a pensioner. This is your pension policy. It is clear that Hungarian pensioners cannot count on you, DK, LMP or the entire left from Jobbik to DK. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Zoltán Balczó, Member Jobbik.
u2020-07-02-141	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I understand the intention and positive direction of the amendment proposed by the MSZP and the LMP; Jobbik also believes that there should be a clear change in pensions below 100 thousand forints. Obviously, analyzed, there are different ways of life behind it. Some, as entrepreneurs, may have tried to increase their income by announcing themselves only to a minimum wage during their lifetime, while living well enough. There are those who were forced to become entrepreneurs... but the vast majority of these people receive unfairly low pensions. The question is, this is the right solution. [[14.10]] I have fundamental reservations: the pension is not social support, the state does not distribute it on a solidarity basis, the pension is not granted by the government as a prize, it is not arbitrary in its amount, but on the basis of the contribution paid during the active life of the person, which is determined by his income, and in this context by his work and performance. This is basically a matter of insurance law, so it is not a social benefit. In the case of the 13th month pension, the example of 1 million has indeed been mentioned. I consider the 1 million-dollar example to be demagog because there are 32 out of the over 2 million pensioners according to 2019 data, who earns over 1 million forints. I'm not going into it now, but there's no reason in any case to raise it above inflation, but let's add we have an analysis of these high pensions, which is basically not what I want to discuss, all over 50 years of relationship, always paid the ceiling, and Fidesz abolished the ceiling, so I'll come back separately, and that's how this, let's say, horritable pension came out. But there's only 32 of them. Let me give you another example of those who are worse off. 700,000 people get worse. 730 thousand people have pensions above average. I'll give you an example. If you receive a pension of HUF 280 thousand, it is not an outstandingly high pension. That's how he worked in his life, that's how many contributions he paid. So now the government would say that you're not getting a 13th-month pension of 280,000, but we're taking 140,000 from you, and we're giving it to those with a lower pension. Let's think about that. Not that 23 A million dollars, let's think of all these hundreds of thousands. It's not solidarity! Solidarity is if he has the opportunity to give it up. If we accept this proposal, it means that we take it away from him, move it, move it. This is my fundamental reservation with this proposal. Once again, the principle is that it's a social benefit or an insurance-based relationship in which the person's performance is involved. Let me add, however, that I would have expected the government to come in as part of an economic rescue package, which we do not now analyse, whether it has provided enough or what it has provided, to what social groups the government has provided this year, when we know that the virus epidemic has caused great disadvantages. All that could have been done was that the first week of the week would be paid in July this year, and this would be included in the 2020 budget amendment, because they would have already given pensioners a supplement for this year. I object to the government saying that in recent years, wages have grown dynamically. Indeed, but we know where we are still at, we are also the last of the Visegrád countries, but in recent years it has really grown dynamically. This means that retirement has also grown dynamically. For years, there hasn't been a pension ceiling in a few years, which will cause a much bigger task later, because 23 people will not have very high pensions. But in the last few years, it was only for the better, because everyone paid their full pension contributions after their total high income. So, in recent years, it has been possible for you to say that yes, value keeping is an important thing. But the pensioner who receives 30-40-50 thousand forints is not happy that his pension retains its value. Indeed, it should have been increased in lanes, very differentiated, very strongly with low pensions and to a much lesser extent with higher pensions. This is how we should have called solidarity or social sensitivity to the government when the resources were available. I am glad that Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa said that we will return it, because the lead speaker said last time that we returned the 13th month's pension. The Jobbik will obviously support this, no matter how much we wanted it to be one week this year. We could make a suggestion, but I'm not talking about how it could be, what kind of source to give the entire 13th month next year. But in this debate, we also have to acknowledge that if we were to be fair once again, we would be able to source the entire 13th month, but we did not submit such an amendment, but in the eternal debate we must take into account that if the left-wing government gradually introduced the 13th month pension for years with weekly increases in the economy, then now, at a time of crisis, I do not feel that there is enough moral basis for you to be accountable for why you are not introducing it right now. I'm sorry Jobbik didn't submit an amendment, indicating the source. Once again, we have fundamental reservations about this amendment, in principle reservations, but we will, of course, support the proposal in any way that we would have liked in the final vote. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-02-142	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2020-07-02-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not stalling, but I obviously have to respond to what my fellow Member Nacsa said that there is a possibility of a second examination. The truth is, we offered you an opportunity, too. With these amendments, we have offered the opportunity not to provide for pensioners in February next year. And I'll tell you honestly, since we have a different intention than you're suggesting, I'm not even going to draw it out now, so that we don't care so much about pensioners in February next year, that I can name even the last ten years that they didn't introduce the 13th month pension. They've had ten years. This year, they said that pensions are rising by 2.8 percent, which inflation already ate in January-February. The prices of basic foods, especially meat and meat products, increased between 17 and 30%. I understand the price of gas oil dropped in the first quarter. My dad's retired, too, and I can tell you which one of us uses more diesel. Obviously, it's not in his basket, they don't buy these products. And, of course, the drug prices have not been reduced. And you could tell me what fell into the retirement basket and what didn't fall into it. We live in the same Hungary that you live in, and of course we see the difficulties that pensioners face, how much more difficulty it is for pensioners to come out of retirement. Nor did they experience the 2.8 percent increase that my fellow Member has recommended to us, how much we value pensioners, and they did not experience it as a very high appreciation, especially when it comes to the fact that the country is performing better and that Hungary has never been so strong. Then you don't understand why they can only get 2.8 percent of that. Let's just remember that when prices, drug prices, medical equipment prices got out of hand at the beginning of the Covid epidemic, how much did the mask prices go up by: 1500 percent? Then you've got this 2.8 percent on your side. We asked them to help the pensioners, because they're in big trouble right now. And you said we were gonna help you next February. Then I found out that whoever had this idea should be kind enough to hold their breath. Retirements need help again this year. We made that suggestion. We are asking you to support this proposal. It's not just next year that pensioners need to be important, because there's a problem this year. Life didn't get cheaper. There is a problem again this year, please support the MSZP proposal, and these benefits will be paid in July this year, and even this year there will be a larger increase of 6.9 percent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[14.20]]
u2020-07-02-144	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2020-07-02-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman Nacha! The fact is that the amendment proposed by the Democratic Coalition was infinitely simple: pay the promised 13th month's pension to pensioners, and the first half of it now when there is trouble. You know, I told you that the other day. It's kind of like what you're doing right now, like saying to a drowning man in the middle of Lake Balaton, "Wait a minute, and we'll throw you a quarter of the lifeline in January; and if you can swim out with that, you'll get another quarter next January, and so on. That's not enough. Instead of real help... After all, there is a real problem now not only with pensioners, but also with the Hungarian families that you promised there would be a job after three months; if not, you can pick a pickle with Viktor Orbán. It turns out that no, no jobs, no benefits in many cases, and elderly retired parents need to help unemployed young people now. But you couldn't afford it, but a miserable propaganda fund, the Jókor, which is now published in 2 million copies, on 16 color pages, which may be the second page of the Prime Minister's smile. It's not enough to go to the market; you can't buy any of this. I understand that the most important thing for you is that the Habony works are the ones that keep you in power, because with their help, they're gonna lie down the star from the sky, but that's gonna make pensioners go to bed hungry at the end of the month. All we ask is that you don't show us backwards. You know, you're an old Dakota politician, so you must know the old Dakota saying that whoever points a lot on the way back will eventually hit the doorpost. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Tell your partner...]] In this regard, I would really ask you to take seriously what you promise. Take seriously that our pensioners are in trouble now, that many people have to make a living from just a few thousand forints; that every penny matters to them; that one newspaper is not enough for them, and that propaganda is not enough for them. Help them, because you say, from Matolcsy, the President of the Central Bank, that the economy is raging, that there is nothing wrong here, that everything is all right. Let's see how well he's doing. Please accept DK's amendment, since we do not ask for much, just for the 13th month's pension to be a 13th month's pension; to help pensioners at last, and not just with a propaganda fund. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mátrai, Fidesz.
u2020-07-02-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I cannot help but say that some opposition representatives would have spoken round, fair and realistic if they had compared the period 2002-2010 and 2010-2020. I would like to thank Zoltán Balczó for his speech, because we heard an absolute professional speech, which revealed that the pension may not be an aid, that it was not clear to you, but an insurance benefit that older people will receive after the age has reached. I'm very sorry that this has somehow escaped your attention. And here I would also say to the DK Member that, before he mentioned various names in his speech, he should have looked at it or listened to what I said as rapporteur for the Legislative Committee, that since 2010, as Mr Nacsa said, the Orbán Government has laid down a fundamental law and Parliament has accepted the preservation of the real value of pensions. This was a fund that we undertook; and then every year, we set out the opportunities that we paid out to the elderly in relation to the performance of the economy. These include payment of the difference over inflation. If you have observed that inflation as set out in the budget, which was 2.8 percent in the current budget, will be corrected at the end of the year, as in all other years, and the government has always paid the pensioners with retroactive effect the difference that may or may not have been harmful to inflation. This will be the case next year and in the coming years. Next year's budget accounts for 3% inflation. If inflation goes beyond that, then the same practice will prevail. However, I would also like to put it to your attention, and I cannot believe that you did not pay attention to the fact that pensions have increased by 38 percent compared to 2010 and that the value of the purchase is 10.3%. We've created the possibility of retirement before age for the ladies. At the same time, after 40 years of employment, very, very many women took advantage of this opportunity, which greatly helped family reunification, helping young families and making their lives easier. I have also said, Mr President, and my fellow Members of the opposition, that, in addition to the pension increase, the elderly received HUF 270 billion of pension premium; there was a certificate, a voucher for Elizabeth, and all the allowances that gave us the opportunity to take full account of the livelihoods of the elderly, to support them, recognising all the work that they have done in recent years, with which they have helped the lives and opportunities of the generations to come. To sum up, I would just say that if someone spoke in Parliament, it would be expected that they would try to approach the particular problem in a realistic way. And for pensions, which is an extremely sensitive area, especially gradually and particularly true, and I would like to thank my fellow Member Balczó once again for trying to put you in a position where, if for no other reason, he tried to state, on the basis of the basis of the official legal bases, what we consider to be the basis of the pension and what insurance status means. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2020-07-02-148	Thank you very much, ma'am, Congresswoman. Next up is Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2020-07-02-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I did not wish to comment on this subject, but I always hear that the Socialists have taken away the 13th month pension, and how outrageous it is, how it upsets Fidesz and KDNP and my fellow Member Nacha. Well, let's see what they took. From 1 July 2009, the second semester was indeed taken away by the government. In 2010, Viktor Orbán, the Fidesz-KDNP, was already in government, so you took away these 13th-month pensions, in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, and in 2020. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Well, you took that, what are we talking about? ! And they're gonna take away three quarters and half of these next year's pensions, that's what you're gonna see. Well, that's what they took! And while you're talking about how much you respect this age group, you simply refuse to give men the opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment. Just on Monday, on Monday of this week, you voted - all politicians with Fidesz and KDNP - the amendment that would have allowed men to retire with 40 years of work. The opposition also voted for this. Speaking of respect, who's trying to help them, why don't you take a look at yourselves and look at the mistakes you've made over the past ten years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-07-02-150	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP.
u2020-07-02-151	Congressman, it would have been better if you had only allowed Mr Balczó to prevail on this subject... [[Zoltán Balczó: He is also right...]] Mr. Congressman always has such a good memory of earlier votes and things: you voted for the introduction of the "Women 40" programme, and the Jobbik faction that you voted... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We supported...]] They refused... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We supported...]] They refused, they did not support the Women's 40. They didn't support the introduction of the. Women's 40, they didn't support it. [[14.30]] Now you are asking us to count on the 40" support of the men that you did not support the 40" Women. That's the truth, Your Honour. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] He gave a very excellent example of Lake Balaton, and Congressman Varga began to give examples of Lake Balaton here. If we stay with this analogy, do I understand that you did what you did to the drowning man in Lake Balaton, who had the lifeline, went there, ripped it out of his hand, and then stormed off on János Kóka's helicopter? Am I to understand that this happened at the time, according to your analogy? If that's what you're talking about, that's exactly what you did. After two years of living in this system, Congressman, how did you introduce your 13th month pension? The pensioners received it weekly and in two installments, not as we promised, but in January and then in May. They even split it, split the amount they wanted to put in half. Then, when this system lived in 2006 and 2007, then Ferenc Gyurcsány submitted to Parliament in 2008 that he did not want it, so let's take it away from the pensioners. So that particular lifeline you're talking about, Ferenc Gyurcsány ripped it out of the hands of the pensioners. And don't you remember, Congressman, that you have doubled the price of electricity? During your administration, the price of electricity doubled, while Ferenc Gyurcsány provided his own company with cheaper electricity. In the meantime, pensioners were bullied with double-raised overhead costs, while Ferenc Gyurcsány, the prime minister at the time, provided his own company with cheaper electricity through the Hungarian Electricity Works. Congressman, how do you feel about any criticism of this subject here in Parliament when, with a double-up of electricity, the Prime Minister gave his own company cheaper electricity? ! Meanwhile, pensions lost more than 10 percent of their purchasing value between 2005 and 2010. So they not only took away the 13th month pension, but also took away a month's pension, because the 10 percent reduction is more than a month. So you took two and a half months' pensions from pensioners, because they reduced their purchasing value by 10 percent and took a month's pension, took two and a half months' pensions from Hungarian pensioners. After that, I think it's a left-wing congressman who's... After your party partner, István Vágó, made a joke about the death of pensioners in March, after your partner made a joke about the death of pensioners. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: He wasn't kidding, he wasn't kidding!]] No, I don't think it's a joke, that's exactly why he's so tough, he's still sitting on the greasy board, courtesy of Gergely Christmas and Ferenc Gyurcsány, after István Vágó joked about the death of pensioners; this is not a joke, precisely, Congresswoman. István Vágó DK politician now sits on the board of one of the Budapest companies. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: I am LMP!]] I am speaking to DK, honourable Member, not everything is for you. It is very important that you now say that you are not voting for the 13th month pension, that you have made it perfectly clear that if you were in power now, you would now take another month away from pensioners and not even pay pensions. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2020-07-02-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would say to Congressman Nacsa that we did not say that we would not vote for the 13th month pension, but that we were talking about an amendment here, that various opposition parties had tabled amendments to the 13th month pension. I say to my fellow Member, Márta Mátrai, that we know that the pension is not on a social basis, we know that. We just wanted to draw attention to the fact that someone in Hungary receives a very low pension, it may not be his fault; very many tens of thousands. But let's talk about the fact that after the change of regime, someone may be working 30 years on minimum wage, and it's not his fault that he's on minimum wage, and how miserable his pension will be when he's retired, it's not his problem. Unfortunately, he didn't have a chance to be in a position to be in the category of a million-dollar pension when he retired. That's what we wanted to draw attention to. And there's a government that's got to deal with people who, let's just say, have worked their whole lives, and then they're kind of squandering out of their own pension. Let me tell you, because this is the data of the KSH, that today, if we observe it, the poverty indicator has grown most in Hungary in recent years among pensioners and workers, working people. The pensioners and the working people's group! Something's wrong then, something's not working. That is why we said that, if you want to return the 13th month pension, we have made an attempt, because we are in the middle of such a crisis, and, by the way, most importantly, pensioners outside the Hungarian families, and I would like to draw attention here to the fact that it is the widows who are suffering the most from this situation right now, that we can help them to receive this kind of benefit not in 2021, but in the summer of 2020. And let me say, I'm going to be very demagogic again, I told you yesterday, two days ago, if I remember correctly, on the evening of the 30th, the government spent HUF 194 billion again on sport, HUF 10 billion again, I told you yesterday that it was HUF 404 million on health care and health funding that night... So, what we see is that in the past period, 700 million forints were spent on sports subsidies every day, and we argue that we can help pensioners who, say, live or are humiliatingly low on pensions in Hungary. I think that we are arguing about what important values there are for us now to help pensioners who live in very difficult conditions or continue to spend 700 million forints a day as support for sport in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-02-154	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Zoltán Varga, DK.
u2020-07-02-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think that this debate that's going on here is genderless and humiliating, practically above the heads of pensioners. You're trying to distract attention from the people you've been pointing back at with all kinds of accusations that you basically don't care about. They simply want to live the present, today. Today. They'd like to buy a piece of meat, some potatoes. It's so nice to hear the numbers that the landlady said and the charges she made against us, but we know very well that they are false in this way, in this form. Of course, we could talk about the mixed indexation, what it means, and how much damage the pensioners have suffered, for example, with their only decision to abolish the mixed indexation. In 2019 the pension would now have been at least 155 thousand forints per month instead of 130 thousand forints. That's on an annual basis, you know how much that means? 300,000 forints difference. This is the difference between the mixed indexation and the current situation. Why don't you talk about that? Or why don't you talk about how, by the way, the mouth of the greatest speller may have been fired when you said that they would not only give 13 months but also 14 months' pension? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Plus a month!]] Look, we can argue about this again, because the 13th month pension was promised, but it wasn't 13 months or 14 months. If we add these numbers up, that would be 600,000 forints a year, but it's not. And you can ride around here thinking he's a Gyurcsányist, and that's where I think we're doing our job, because if the name of Gyurcsány comes up in this room, then we feel that there are no more arguments and real answers, just Gyurcsányás. I am deeply sorry, otherwise, that I am a part of this debate here. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Are you ashamed of Gyurcsány?]] I could also say that I am ashamed of Congressman Nacha, yes, that is true. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But once again, the opposition is asking for something very simple: help the people who are asking for help now. Let's not give them the paper, let's not try to explain what happened ten years ago, the last eight years, let's not try to play the gypsy, let's get together and help. Please accept our amendment; the MSZP and ours and everyone who has made an amendment to this issue as opposition, I think it is altruistic and serves the interests of pensioners. [[14.40]] The one who sweeps this off the table is selfish and takes care of his own interests. That's what we should think about. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-156	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Szakács, MSZP.
u2020-07-02-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I refer again to my colleague Nacsa's speech, the pensioners were not much said in it, but of course we can go back in time, and we can start by saying that the Prime Minister, who was the Prime Minister at the time, told the pensioners that there is the 19 thousand forints that should be paid, but understand that he does not get it now. There was such an attitude, we saw it. But let's get back to the ground of reality. To mention things from 5 to 10 years ago, we can talk about energy prices right now. Please, it was $100 a barrel of oil, and 100 forints was the price of a cubic meter of gas. Now it's $42 less than half the price of a barrel of oil, and £103 is the price of a cubic meter of gas, retired, elderly, young, everyone. We don't see these discounts you've brought in since then. Then what has become so expensive, fellow Members? The keg? We say that for pensioners, life has become expensive. We say that there is a budgetary margin for what you promise next February to get. It is true that there will be less on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which will be spent this year at 82, 132 billion next year, less to pour the City Park into concrete, for which only 130 billion has been spent so far, and we could say more projects from which I believe this national capital class is living well. Why don't pensioners make a great living out of this? That's all we ask. Why can't they have this this year? Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-07-02-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, LMP.
u2020-07-02-159	Thank you very much for the floor. In 2009, the then government decided not to continue to pay the 13th month pension. I don't like it, I didn't agree with that; neither do you, I hear. It's been ten years, why hasn't it been returned in the last ten years, I'd be interested in that. If it makes you so angry, why didn't you give it back in ten years, why start now, dripping it back before the election? So my question is, why didn't you give it back? And the answer to that isn't a helicopter or a float, it's why they haven't returned it so far. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-160	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will give the floor to the author if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to conclude the debate. Attila Philip, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-07-02-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, From the government side, when you come with such a proposal, there is so much illusion that you can also find a united parliamentary support. In the first instance, I would like to thank Mr Balczó Zoltán, on behalf of Jobbik, for his correct and professional contributions. But in other words, allow me to understand and experience the responsibility, discretion, and how should I put it? I would like to ask the rest of the opposition to take into account only two circumstances with due restraint and restraint, in order to make their criticism of such a proposal a little more circumstantial when it is now on the agenda and before Parliament in July 2020. When it is not only in Hungary, but throughout Europe, that the world after the epidemiological situation is about how to bring the economy and society into a state or to help as they were before, we are not in a normal situation here, when, by the way, we see that the economy is booming and everything will be as it was before. By the way, when we talk about the introduction of the 13th month pension, which happened in 2003, as Congressman Balczó mentioned, it was a very different situation, and in this situation, this government decided to make an economic protection action plan, which will be part of it. I think it's important to be careful. From the point of view of credibility: the government could have decided as the government decided in 2009. It may have been a long time ago, but the government decided that when there was a crisis, it really took away the 13th month pension, it really reduced the rate of family support, and it wasn't thinking about trying to give extra support anyway. And I think that I think that the proposals put forward by you in this context give a sufficient answer to what credibility this represents in itself. What Ildikó Bangóné Borbély raised at the beginning, and there was a proper response from the housekeeper, I can say that this is his principle because it is about the 13th pension. So it's not a different benefit, it's a pension, and the pension can't behave any other way except in a pension, regardless of whether it's month 1 or month 13. The pension, as has been said several times here, does not depend on necessity, but on income-related support, which is the only way in which it can continue to be recovered from this point of view. There have also been further criticisms about why we are not giving them at the same time. It's 77 billion forints extra expense. [[Dr. László Sza-kács and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervene.]] I would like to add that in 2010, the Pension Insurance Fund was taken over by the Orbán government with a deficit of HUF 357 billion. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops!]] The budget is there now, and we are in a position to do so by the way, and the government can use a week's introduction and a monthly 13th month's pension supplement up until 2024. But I would like to emphasise once again that in 2010, the government took over the Pension Insurance Fund with a deficit of nearly 360 billion. I just want to ask you with due respect. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] to take these circumstances into account when making criticism of this issue. And what Congressman Zoltán Varga has said is that this introduction tastes propaganda and campaign tastes like: I think that it might taste like propaganda to you, but whoever will get it will be one, two, three, then four weeks, that is, a month's pension surplus, and I sincerely hope that it will help them. Just as we did not want to abandon any target group during the epidemic, so the target group that is particularly at risk from the point of view of the disease, especially the elderly. That's what we've done, and that's what this government's gonna do. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Next up is the 2011 CXC on national public education. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10742. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum time frame of 8 minutes.
u2020-07-02-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 25 June 2020 the 2011 CXC on National Public Education discussed this. T/10742 amending Act No. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the aims of the bill before us is to eliminate and eliminate the recently growing number of pedagogical abuse. [[14.50]] The amendment of the National Public Education Act aims to ensure that teachers can do their job in a safe environment and in calm conditions, and that students can learn in calm conditions, thus creating the possibility that, if necessary, the new organization established within the organisation of the police, the school guard, in order to protect teachers and the students involved, may be involved. The proposal also provides an opportunity for a ministerial regulation to allow education, education, monitoring and support of the learning process in the future in the online or other personal contact between teachers and pupils, based on the experience of the digital working order introduced in an emergency outside the classroom, during certain periods of the teaching year and in certain other specific cases. In addition, the draft allows for voluntary participation in the teacher qualification and the acquisition of a titled grade for the staff not covered by the pedagogical progression system. The amendment also includes the necessary legislative amendments to ensure the provision of textbooks free of charge to all students from September 2020. Thus, the provision of free textbooks is extended to all grades in both public education and vocational training. The proposal also expands the range of students with special educational needs, which are entitled free of charge to basic art education. At the express request of the national authorities, a new type of institution is added to the institutional system for ethnic education, the supplementary kindergarten of nationality. Finally, the proposal includes further amendments to the National Public Education Act, which became necessary after the adoption of the new VET Act at the end of last year, in view of the smooth functioning of public education institutions and vocational schools that continue to operate in the public education system. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also say that the debate at the committee meeting was not really about the basic proposal tabled by the government, but about an amendment by its representatives. On the part of the opposition, the left, it was also stated that this amendment was not house-based, over-extensive, but we do not share these arguments or these criticisms. It is true that this amending proposal was made as a result of the lessons learned from the Pearl Pata damages lawsuit and following a study of the court judgments and the decision of the Court in the course of the trial. The point of this amendment is that, in similar damages cases, in future, the court should not be able to award financial compensation as compensation, but, if someone has suffered a disadvantage in education and training, the remedy for this disadvantage should also be in education and training. We believe that this solution, on the one hand, is more good for the people concerned than a one-off financial compensation, and, on the other hand, it does not upset social peace, nor does it harm the sense of justice of the majority. It is true that we do not want lawsuits such as those in Gyöngyöspatán to take place in other settlements in the future, because we should not forget that this case was organised, organised and managed for political reasons, using segregation as an excuse, using Gypsy families and students as instruments. After the advantageous court decisions, when the aim was to ensure that the court-organizing foundation, which provided for the lawsuit, of course, all the money, parapa, free legal representation and logistics, said that we had now moved the way, now that a divorce lawyer can file a case in similar cases, go ahead, so that if needed, they can give us help. And then the next day, a Roma civil rights activist said that there are at least 500-600 places in Hungary, where there is segregation, by the way. So the direction has been set, and we do not misinterpret that, for political purposes, by playing a racist card, some people want to organise and create lawsuits in the country. We can't afford that, because a very bad model was awarded, by the way, this whole lawsuit. He appreciated, you might say, that it paid off if someone didn't go to school or if someone was violent, and I think it's very damaging. We think it's very damaging. In this judgment, the court ruling did not meet the truth, the legal system did not come to a thank-you relationship with the truth, and I believe that in such a case, we should also help to meet the instruments of lawmaking in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-07-02-164	Thank you very much, Congressman Horváth. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2020-07-02-165	Thank you very much. Dear House, It is not as much a surprise as the Member thinks that the opposition representatives addressed the amendment at the committee meeting, since the subject of the detailed debate of the Legislative Committee is precisely the discussion of the amendments. We have said before about the bill, in the general debate, our otherwise rather negative opinion. Indeed, this is the only substantive amendment that has been proposed, since the legislative committee's further proposals were aimed at clarifying and improving the usual legislative negligees. However, this one amendment, which Mr President was kind enough to submit, is indeed extremely problematic, and we did not hide it at the committee meeting. What is this proposal about? In many ways, it's different from what the congressman is talking about. This is what I have in my political opinion, but this is not the place for this comment. This proposal says that if a person is harmed by personal rights in the educational institution, he can only compensate the court through education and compensation, and in addition in the institution where the person was injured. What about this thing? This proposal is obviously extremely problematic in a number of ways. The first point is that I cannot reasonably assume that the Member has not thought it through properly, and neither has the government, but I will at the end say a few sentences on what is covered by the right of personality. You want a lawsuit, you want a court ruling, so to speak, cancel it. We know it's not legally, but it's your intention to respond to a negative judgment on segregation, by the way. There should be no misunderstanding, the range of personality rights is much wider than segregation. This includes life, physical integrity, health, personal freedom, privacy, privacy, privacy, protection against discrimination against persons, including the protection of honor and reputation, privacy, the right to the protection of personal data. These are all personal rights. It is difficult to imagine that any of these rights will otherwise be violated by the court in education only by training or education to compensate and recompense. That's obviously not legal. You want to tie the hand of the court, to you, to the state and to the local government... because, as elegantly as you always do, there is a lawsuit not only against the local government, there is a lawsuit against the state. Instead of taking responsibility for what has happened here, the state would take responsibility for the current maintenance, the KLIK, for what has happened, but instead you want to deal with this situation by hitting on the law. [[15.00]] So what I have to say to you is that you are clearly not satisfied, and this is the usual technique: if you are not satisfied with the judgment of the independent court, which you are making under the laws in force, then the worse it is for the court and then change the law. This is not original, but this is a particularly harsh example of this type of legislation. They say they'll fix this with education, but it's a little like getting hit by a car, but if the unsub goes back, then everything's fixed, they've restored the original state. For the damage they do by, for example, stripping students of the possibility of education by legitimizing and approving segregation, but there is much more to it, I repeat, personal freedom, breach of reputation or the right to data protection, so for the damage caused by the school acting on behalf of the state and the state in this case, it is not in itself compensation to restore the original state. I must say, therefore, that there is a serious violation of the principle that it is for the court to determine what compensation is. Let it be clear that the court did not reward such or such student conduct. In this case, if you like it, the court has fined compensation for the infringement, because the court has examined the case and has found that the relevant Hungarian laws in force have not been complied with otherwise. But the failure to comply with the laws or to violate the laws of institutions or the State as a maintainer is not the solution to reducing the sanction or changing the nature of the sanction, but to protect ourselves or the State from the consequences of the infringement by changing the means of compensation available in such a case, but by eliminating the infringement. We should work together, and you should work together, and in that, we would also have our support to bring the violation situation to an end in all schools. We know this is difficult, there are legal conditions for this, and we have created a large part of these legal conditions before 2010 and there are professional conditions. Yeah, that's what the state has to spend on, pay attention, and do a lot of things in this thing. Finally, I must say, Congressman, that if someone here plays the racist card, it is not the opposition, it is the government. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was the one who in January in his interview with the opening of the year, seeing that migranting and serialisation are no longer strong enough, thought that the playoffs against the Roma, the mood against the Roma, were suitable for providing political ammunition for the next year. I think we should stop doing that. They're playing with fire! The kind of anger you've done at the committee meeting, and what you're doing now, when you're making an unsub out of the victims of a case, you're lighting fires in this country that have unpredictable consequences.
u2020-07-02-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor: Yes.]] He wishes to speak now. I give the floor to Secretary Maruzsa.
u2020-07-02-167	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government's aim is to create a system of public education that promotes the harmonious spiritual, physical and intellectual development of children and young people, through the conscious development of their skills, abilities, knowledge, skills, emotional and will qualities, their culture in accordance with their age-specific characteristics. Our main goal is to prevent social detachment and to provide talent with educational tools. The measures contained in this bill also serve this purpose. This is the scope of the legislative amendments necessary to ensure the provision of textbooks free of charge to all students from September 2020. The bill expands the range of students with special educational needs, which are entitled free of charge to basic art education, while at the same time making the regulation more coherent. If this bill is adopted by this House, we will comply with the explicit request of national authorities to add a new type of institution to the institutional system for ethnic education, the supplementary kindergarten of nationality. This type of institution can help small-scale nationalities by enabling, in addition to traditional kindergartens, basically the establishment of national language education institutions on weekends. The bill also contains a technical deregulation. In this context, it is important to point out that the educational requirements of teachers do not change, so it is not possible, in future, to employ teachers without adequate qualifications or qualifications, but, as a result of the amendment of the law, the qualification requirements for the use of teachers will be in the future not in the Annex to this Act, but in the Government Decree. I would also like to mention that, in the event of the adoption of the bill, the court will have to and will be able to judge the court in the form of education in the event of an education test in accordance with Hungarian legislation. I think it is important to point out that what we have just said is not true, that this must be ensured in the institution to which the person concerned has gone, which is not included in the legislation. We also do not consider the fact, from the opposition opinion that we have just given Mr Arató, that we would conclude the hand of the court, and that is why this legislation was adopted. I think it is important to point out that the government has waited and has gone through all legal forums in this case, because we were very curious about the legal position of the Curia as a final decision-making forum in the current legislative context, and how it will take a position on this matter in the spirit of justice. We have seen that this is why we have been waiting for the Curia's judgment, which is why this proposal, agreed with the government, has been included in the legislation with an amendment, because we have seen that the Curia has actually recorded in its judgment's reasoning that there is no way to tie it to anyone else on the basis of the legislation in force. So I'm reporting that the Curia's hand was bound according to the laws in force, according to the Curia's interpretation of the law. Compared to this, the legislation changes this conclusion, but the Curia has not taken advantage of the possibility that it has allegedly had at its disposal so far. And the fact that the legislator is changing the legal environment, I think, is not unusual in this House at all, that is what the legislative process is about. I would also like to point out that, of course, legislation is not retrospective. Here we have a court case, a case from which extensive experience can be drawn, but, of course, the new legislation is not retroactive. With regard to segregation, I would like to point out once again, and I said at the committee meeting that this government has indeed abolished the segregation which is supposed to have taken place on this ground on the basis of the decision of the court. I would like to add once again that we thank Mr Arató very much for his advice, but this case started in 2009, because of the segregation at that time, and then you had a position of responsibility in the Ministry of Education and Culture. So what you have just said here is that in a wonderful legal environment, there was every opportunity to combat segregation, it may have been so, but then the action was canceled, because the lawsuit probably wouldn't have started. Once again, in 2009, during the period of segregation at that time, it started in the cases at that time. Today, especially after the government managed to take over from the settlements, also from this settlement, which, in my personal view, made a mistake in the matter of the organisation of education, was subsequently terminated. It is also not true that there are five to six hundred educational segregations in Hungary at present. This accusation was not made here, in this House, only quoted, but I would also like to reject it from this place. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-168	Thank you very much for the speech by the rapporteur, Mr Maruzsa Zoltán State Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have 9 minutes and 25 seconds to comment on the debate and to say the closing word. [[15.10]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated cultural committee. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary for the debate, within a six-minute timeframe.
u2020-07-02-169	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Der Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten hat den Gesetzvorschlag: Modifizierung des nationalen, einheitlichen Bildungsgesetzes CXC vom Jahr 2011 mit der Nummer T/10742 am 9. Juli 2020 ausdiskutier. Mr President, Dear House, On 9 June 2020, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary carried out the 2011 National Education. CXC. T/10742 on the amendment of the Act The detailed discussion of bill No.3 as a related committee. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary did not take a position on the proposal for an amendment to the bill and did not intend to make any further amendments at the meeting. The Commission has therefore not tabled a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. This is mainly due to the fact that during the preparation of the bill there has been a detailed consultation with the State Secretary responsible for public education of EMMI on several occasions, and in doing so we have reached agreement on all issues relating to nationalities, which have already been incorporated into the bill. Allow me to point out that, as a representative of the Hungarian Nationalities Committee, nationality education is the most important legislation for indigenous nationalities in Hungary in addition to the Act on the Rights of Nationalities. Both laws use their instruments to preserve nationalities in Hungary. An integral part of the two laws is confirmed by the fact that the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities adopted just three weeks ago on 12 June 2020. T/10303 on the amendment of the Act Based on the bill No.1 the law on the rights of nationalities has been defined as such important, missing concepts, such as the "national primary art education" or the "additional national pre-school" or the "public education" institution involved in the education and education of ethnicities. At the same time, the bill on national public education, which is now under discussion and hopefully to be adopted tomorrow, complements the list of basic public education tasks in relation to basic national art education, supplementary national pre-school education, and the right to agree and comment on national minority self-governments education and educational public education institutions. Ethnic education weaves across all segments of the Hungarian education and public education system. Our youth ethnicity has the opportunity to raise education in the mother tongue from kindergarten to universities. In recent years, we have made significant progress in the framework of the 2016 National Education Programme. In three steps, we have raised the minority pedagogue allowance fourfold, and we have extended it to all ethnic educators in a proportionate manner, in order to better appreciate ethnic educators. As of September 1, this year, in three steps, all three national education courses and the teaching, teacher and teacher training will be extended to all six years of education, i.e. all national education students. The biggest task ahead of us is to significantly improve the number and quality of the education of national minority educators, to reverse the proportion of the current 80 percent Hungarian and 20 percent ethnic education for 80 percent ethnic education and 20 percent Hungarian language education. Our goals are clear and clear, we see the tasks to be solved, and we are determined to implement them effectively and fully. The amendments made in this bill concerning education and education in the field of nationality promote and strengthen the autonomy of national education and education. They ensure that the youth of ethnic communities can learn in calm conditions, develop intellectually, morally and spiritually, so that as an adult they can become a useful member of their own ethnic community and, of course, of course, of the Hungarian society as a whole. Dear House, On this basis, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2020-07-02-170	Thank you very much, Imre Ritter, Member of the National Council. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2020-07-02-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We will support the bill, but we have very, very serious criticisms, but the conditions that have developed in Hungary are also very serious. And now it's possible to point back, past ten, past eight years, and then go back to earlier times, and blame each other for the conditions that, in many cases, teachers, children, parents can meet in these public education and education institutions, but that doesn't make much sense. What we have, this unblessed state, in many places, must be resolved. I think that even my fellow Member Arató is right in that it is in the best interests of this country, and without it, there really could not be a better future here. Nor can responsibility be bribed, and one-sidedly pushed into a state, one of them, or one of those governments. This responsibility, we've said it many times, I've said it myself, it's divided. It belongs to the state, and if it is to segregation and integration, then it is also to the majority society in such a way that, yes, those who want to cling out of the state that no one is good, then it is our duty to give us a helping hand, and not to kick back, to push these people back from where they themselves would be freed from. But there's a responsibility on the other side to put it that way, although I don't like to talk about pages. I believe that this country should be a common country, because without it there will be no prosperity here. So, the responsibility is there, and this is that that anticulture, the culture of opt-out, the counterculture, which, in many cases, has been tradition within families for generations, must be forgotten quite simply; it does not lead to anything. I could now talk about the family typology in Bosselmann and the socioeconomic theories that clearly state the terrible responsibility of the family environment in the spread of deviance. And indeed, the family environment is decisive. It is decisive how these children relate to the school, the teachers, the only way out anyway, as very few people can be Real World- or so-called X-Factor-stars. The school would be the solution to the country's problems, and here it would be the problems and problems of social groups that have been broken down or broken down for centuries. However, this requires a change of cultural perspective, which recognises that the school is indeed not the enemy, the teacher is not the enemy, but the only option. Here, let me refer to a Gypsy in South Somogy, a good friend of mine, a friend of mine, who wrote in a writing about the case referred to or related to the fact that these children were very likely not socialized in the breasts of well-educatedness. So the phenomenon of white flight, the concept of education sociology, still needs to be explained. [[15.20]] This explanation is that parents and students themselves do not feel safe in many cases in such a segmented, clogged school. That's what we need to find a solution to. We also said that this bill is a symptomatic treatment. In this, let's say, we agree with the National Educational Faculty that it can only be a symptomatic treatment, a fire extinguishing, but in no way general, a comprehensive, comprehensive solution. It's gonna take a lot, a lot more than that. I admit, standing on the ground of reality and normality, that unfortunately they can happen, and we know that there are schools where this precipice situation has occurred, where everyone who knows can escape their children, and these schools are indeed segmented. Then you can also think about exclusion or rather exclusion when certain patterns of behavior make it quite simply impossible to live together. And I don't want to say that, and I'll always tell you about Gypsy-Hungarian business. I believe that the differences are no longer between Hungarian and Gypsy, but within the Gypsies in such a way that those who wish to integrate have also driven them away from Gyöngyöspata to another school. So, there are very, very scary and gloomy processes going on in this country, which should be answered, and the fact is that this bill, once again, will not bring a general solution. We support it because, if there are such institutions that are in hell's porch, and there are, and we should not hold teachers responsible for everything, even if in many cases they are also thought to be such a kind of public-use superman, ubermensch, who are responsible for everything from integration to the transfer of professional content, but at some point they will reach the point of the problem where they have to say no more, and they have tried to use all the tools, but the situation is unmanageable within the current framework. And what these current frameworks are, fill in the current government of those frameworks and do everything in order to solve these problems is also a serious issue. We don't think so, by the way. We always say this, and our amendments to the budget contain exactly the arguments on which they did not do everything; not now, not before, I add, because it is honest then. But this should start at some point, because time is running out. Ladies and gentlemen in opposition and government benches, the time is running out, and the disengaging, renegade regions are growing. We can say that the Ormania has swallowed South Somogy from where I come and expands. So, if we are talking about segregation, then point 4 of the summary amendment has been turning around in the Legislative Committee, then the debate will become incomprehensible in such a way that larger settlements and areas will become spontaneously segmented within Hungary. Once again, we can look for the culprit here and cut all sorts of markers to each other's heads, but that's not gonna change the situation. That should be improved. Our support is that if this repair, this reparing, let us say, takes some time, because obviously the brain of a community, its mental attitude cannot be changed from one moment to the next to some kind of magic wand punch, so perhaps the introduction of the school guard will give the institution the time when, using preventive and more constructive tools, the time for unfolding and improvement can finally come. However, it really takes time, if any months, half a year, a year, because we know that in relation to programmes such as, let's say, the true school model of Heykeresztúr and many times referred to, it did not go from one day to the next. However, in order for teachers to be able to work there calmly and, where appropriate, to start the creative, active educational work, it may be possible, yes, that the school guardian, whose presence will also be a deterrent to actions that we have seen on social media, and which have had to dismay all normal people, and that they must say that there are standards of co-existence which are binding on everyone, which cannot be violated for any reason, and that these must be observed. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Time! The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I hear you, my dear fellow Nacha, it's time. Maybe I didn't like my constructive attitude. [[The president's ringing again.]] Can't argue with what, I'm sorry.
u2020-07-02-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2020-07-02-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also listened to the debate at the Legislative Committee's meeting, and, in truth, what I have here is a critical remark that should be evaluated from a legal and professional point of view. Since I have listened to it, and actually in a legal commission, the Legislative Committee, that you said that, if I remember correctly, my fellow Member, Mr Balla, that we do not like this judgment, so we need to change the law. For what are the Members of Parliament, what is Parliament for, rather than recognising a problem, and if that is a problem, it seeks to eliminate this problem by law. That's half true. How did you learn that, how did we lawyers learn that? What's in the law? The typical, the type, is regulated by the law. Mr. Secretary, is this behavior the type? Is this behaviour typical of what this legislation is now? This question is worth asking, because then we are not setting rules on individual matters, we are not making rules on individual cases. Individual cases should be treated as individual cases and the legislator should not be confused with the application of the law. It is the law-appliant who interprets the law, the law-appliant, who makes decisions and decisions on these grounds, and if this does not otherwise please either the law or the government, then the truth is that it is still recognised in a rule of law. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Acknowledged.]] That doesn't mean they won't accept it. They don't say we won't execute the verdict. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Execute.]] They do not encourage the other people in Hungary, and even the Prime Minister does not encourage us to execute the verdict. This sentence was also said. The branches of power are separated in a rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Sometime the 18th. In the mid-century Montesquieu wrote a very good, in fact, excellent paper, and last but not least, it is still being taught. At a time when a Member is speaking out of his mouth, I thought, too, that we do not like this judgment, and that is why we are changing the law, of course, people think about a number of things, but, let's say, at a legislative committee meeting, where we are actually dealing with codification matters, there are various things that come to mind. One of the things I've already said is that I'm sure it's not the type. We don't make laws on individual cases, we have to describe the type, we have to describe the typical, typical behavior in a law, and then we have to reward it, ban it, sanction it. These can be done in a law. I don't think so, I'm not sure this is the type, so it can't be the unique case. Then I also saw that there are other specific cases in which you are much more comfortable. You seem to like those judgments. [[15.30]] Why don't you make a rule about, say, not being evicted in foreign exchange-credit cases? Do you like those? How many times have we brought in the draft legislation to recalculate foreign exchange credit contracts, to have a new bank settlement, to bring it in here, it really is a social problem, it does not affect one-tenth of society, it is typical, it should therefore be recognised that it is his business. Compared to this, you've never liked it, it's always been swept off the table. Then you probably like these judgments. And now they form a law that applies to one single case. Legally, as in a rule of law, it would be fundamentally unthinkable to make a general rule out of a single case because I do not like the judgment many times because I say so many times that it should be included in the minutes because that is what you have said, so the Member does not like the judgment. This is quite simply for one thing: in a case where the parties disagree with each other, you disagree with the court, what can be done is clearly measured from your point of view, which has only a political background, so to speak, to take advantage of the anger, to sit on the highest wave, and to make a general rule out of it. I would like to draw your attention to one thing: those who generalize from the individual always make mistakes. Anyone who goes from grade to grade is always doing the right thing; I am asking you to do that. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-07-02-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2020-07-02-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I found a lot of points of agreement in Mr Ander Balázs' speech, in his constructive speech, although I felt... [[Gergely Harvester: Next time you'll be talking about the Jobbik... the president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-07-02-176	Congressman, I'd like a moment of your time, please.
u2020-07-02-177	I don't know, I can't hear what former Secretary of State for Education is saying, but I'll...
u2020-07-02-178	It's better that you didn't hear it. Go on, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-179	Thank you very much. I felt a little bit from Mr Ander's speech that we had already discussed this current bill on the next issue; the border is thin, so it can easily be crossed, I understand that, and perhaps I will do the same. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the Cooks, We take note of the court's decision, and we implement it, which doesn't mean I like it, and I think that includes opinion and freedom of speech. If, in the opinion of the Member, it does not fit, or you do not believe that freedom of opinion should be applied here at the plenary session of Parliament, which would also be completely absurd, whether anywhere else, I disagree. We acknowledge it, we do it, but I don't like it. Fact. It offends people's sense of justice, it also offends my sense of justice, and with whom I have spoken on this subject, but my fellow Member Horváth is much more at home on this subject and has spoken to many more people involved, he can tell you that. It is very important that what you say about individuality or general rules is often included in laws and regulations that never happen, but there is legislation about them, because they need to be prepared. There are many things in it that are very specific, for example, punishments in the penal code, which everyone is quite horrified about, what crimes exist, and it is very right not to apply them as many times as the law would allow, because there are no serious crimes if we consider certain cases, no harm, and even very good. But I think that in something where the sense of justice of society is violated, a parliament, but also the government, has a need to take a step, there is a need to act, there is a call on the part of society that needs to be taken. We often go to a topic in the bill. Allow me also to mention a little bit about the minority part, which Mr Ritter has already touched on, since, at the express request of the national authorities, the institutional system for teaching nationality is complemented by a new type of institution, the supplementary kindergarten of nationality. Our goal is, and I think that this too can be a common goal, so that as many nationalities living in Hungary can attend the entire public education system, from kindergarten to grad school. I think this is an important goal, we can also set ourselves, so that as many nationalities as possible can get within their own circles, otherwise with state support, so that children can go to national institutions from kindergarten to graduation, and then there are scholarships where teachers and students can go back, go away, see the world, get to know the country. Mr Ritter modestly did not mention this, but the German nationality has this at home from nursery to university, in Hungary, they are the first to do so. I think that, for example, we are setting an example for neighbouring states of how to deal with the issue of nationality clearly, clearly, straightly. It is very important that the current amendment of the law in relation to the definition of the operational, recruitment district of the educational institutions of nationality and other decisions combines the regulation of the request for agreement of the minority self-government with the relevant rules of the law on the rights of nationalities, will be coherent, uniform, and the nationalities themselves can tell how they want boundaries, how they want their system of operation. This is a well-established method, a very well-established method, because there is a committee of nationalities behind whom national minority authorities are, by the way, in the process of legislation, and therefore their concrete opinions and proposals, in most cases their proposals improving the situation of forward-looking and ethnic education, are transferred directly to the National Assembly. Let us not forget this part of the current bill. And let us not forget to thank all teachers for the amendment of the law, and let us also say that we are trying to do as much as possible to protect teachers. Teachers, who teach the future generation, are raised, who pass on value, well, they organize a community, who raise both science and life, they are respected and protected, not deviance, abuse, threats, and I think this is very important. And when we can now talk about a 10% wage increase here on 2 July, this process has started, we also have to say that we do have to value teachers, we have to go on the road we started. Compared to 2010, we spend 355 billion forints more on teachers' wages, this is an important station. Yesterday, July 1st, was also an important stage on this issue, and I think that this path must not stop, but go on, so we support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-180	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacha. The next speaker is Mr László Szakács, MSZP.
u2020-07-02-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You're insulting the sense of justice here, you might as well be right, but it's a question of law enforcement again. And yes, of course, there are a lot of things that are not being used, there are not very many trams in the country; there is also a lot of nonsense in this case, while, for example, I would not include Btk. is a completely different thing. It's a question of law-dogmatics that I'm talking about. I am very confident that this is really not the type of behaviour, and that is not why we have to regulate it, that it does not happen in every school to be very clear, and that is not why we have to legislate on it. Of course, I know you've measured it, which brings it to the kitchen politically, which is why you're going to go through with it now. I remember when everyone was obviously offended by a terrible crime, and the Prime Minister said that the death penalty could perhaps be reinstated in Hungary. It was in 2014-15. It was measured, the Hungarians didn't like it, we never heard from it again. [[15.40]] This is also the case in this particular situation, and we all know that, at least as a lawyer, let me say that I cannot agree with the fact that if the majority does not like a judgment, they will change the law. I hope that we will not get to the point where Parliament may pass a majority judgment, perhaps a verdict being rejected by Parliament. Please, it is customary to use reasoning to achieve what the defendant or the plaintiff would like to achieve on a particular matter, and never to be circumscribed to it, nor to say to any politician that we do not execute the judgment. It's a very wrong sentence, isn't it? It's been referred to a lot before, I trust you'll catch less. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-182	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Horváth, Fidesz.
u2020-07-02-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to contribute to the rest of the debate by providing some information and making our point of view clear. Because this is the case, and we are talking about the lawsuit again, we could talk about a thousand more things, because for example, textbook provision will be free for everyone, but speaking of Gyöngyöspata, Mr Szakács is right to say that this is not typical, because it is not typical that an organisation of political interest is preparing years to create a lawsuit. What happened? As the Secretary of State said, the story did not just start in 2009. In 2009, the Chance for Children in Disadvantaged Foundation, which is actually supported by György Soros, he was the main sponsor, he was until the last time, he decided to do segregation lawsuits in several places, by the way. And this was documented, so I'm not guessing, the representatives of the foundation have made a statement. They also said that when the Pearl Pata lawsuit was launched, they moved down to Gyöngyöspata a year before. They told me we did a very thorough job, prepared everyone for the trial, all the participants. Then he said in the first court case at the Egri Tribunal, before the last trial, the legal representative of the foundation, Adele Kéke, is the main bet of this trial, so that we can price segregation. All this time, but it was all about the money. It is no wonder that, at a later stage in the trial, when schoolkeepers raised the possibility of compensation in kind, the legal representative provided by the Foundation has always strongly rejected it. So the thing is, this case was deliberately organized, staged, provided with infrastructure, and the harness. And segregation was an excuse. The Gypsy families and the tools they needed for this drama, for this charade, who were lured into the trial with the promise of easy and a lot of money. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] Well, that's the thing before we start any other higher legal discussion. What were the triggers? Well, this. And the thing is, the money was in the center. Once again, after the Curia's decision, the representative of the foundation said that we had moved the road. So we've priced it, we've trampled it, now let's all go. This is how they want to turn a politically created lawsuit into a typical one, to let it speak everywhere, to have war everywhere, to make more use of Gypsy families, to allow social peace to be broken in more places. 'Cause let's get into trouble. We don't play with fire, this fire has been laid, consciously laid for years. And where does that particular subconscious come out? Well, the fact that two weeks ago, the representative of the foundation said on a commercial channel about my amendment, that if Parliament accepts this, it will be the first Gypsy law of the Orbán government. Oops! Master Freud's teachings come back. And also, in the fact that you have already been pressured to tell me where the Gypsy Law is in this, we have not yet adopted the law, we have not yet voted in favour of this amendment, and civil rights organisations whose backseat is once again in the wages of George Soros, how strange and pressured the Ombudsman, say that actions will be initiated by the Constitutional Court, the European Court and the European Parliament. So it's consciously built. We're not playing with fire, you're conscious or you're not, you're just approving this thing. But, by the way, they want to make it out of conscious political provocation, that's the thing. And let me add this: a court judgment on what is not pleasing to him, and what disturbs the sense of justice. Let me give you an example: the court said that it decided to compensate for this amount and amount because those affected could not be recovered, had suffered a lifelong psychological damage. When the defendants asked that an independent judicial expert be involved in proving or disproved this claim, that is, that one has sustained psychological damage, that a psychologist, psychiatrist, educator, independent expert can examine the reality of this, the court swept it off the table. The other argument in the reasoning of the judgment was that the students concerned had suffered a permanent loss of life. Here, too, the school supporters, the former and the current, called for the involvement of an independent judicial expert. The court rejected that, too. Just like he refused to pay in kind. We say that the greater good is to remedy in nature the disadvantage that could have happened in education. 'Cause let me tell you, and I gave you a real example here, Mr Arató, at the committee meeting, challenged these facts, because in detail it doesn't have to be lost, but sometimes it doesn't hurt to get a little absorbed in them, for example, to a 20-year-old who, when he was 16 years old, missed six classes, failed three times, while missing from the so-called segregation school, which allegedly didn't prepare him for life, 2040 hours with parentheses: what could one have taught him who was missing 2040 hours; this fact, I didn't violate anyone's right of personality, whether he was maddened, in his situation, his chances of life, is now helped by the 3 million forints that he would receive? Or would education and training help in the long term? What is the greater good of one-off money or education and training? Or the other example: the young man who had also left school, but who had also missed hundreds of hours, often committed violent, serious assaults, could not attend the trial because he was in juvie, would these two million forints solve the life situation and the life disadvantage he is in? Couldn't it be a better solution and a greater benefit in helping him, say, in matters of life management, integration, and other psychological matters? [[15.50]] We think that's where the greater good is, and, by the way, once again, it came up a lot during the trial, which is of principle. With fire, I'll say it again, we're not playing, but what we're trying to prevent is that this kind of fire, which has been deliberately laid here for years, extends to a larger part of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-184	Thank you very much, Congressman Horváth. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, notary.
u2020-07-02-185	Frankly, I am not surprised that Secretary Maruzsa does not know and, in particular, does not recognise the anti-segregation activities of former governments. If he did, he probably wouldn't be sitting there doing what he's doing right now. And I don't want my advice to be taken into account by the government, thank God, there are even better professionals in this country than I do in the area of catching up disadvantaged students and anti-segregation. There is one problem, Mr Secretary: these are the good professionals that you invited to the anti-segregation round table in 2014 and, after ignoring all your suggestions, all your recommendations were left in line in 2016. I would add that the latest news about this wonderful anti-segregation round table was found in 2018; it was important to convene and talk about it before the election. Maybe it's been working ever since, but they'll just forget to inform you, although I'm guessing that's not the case. So that's the case, because you probably know this much because before 2010, there was a municipal reservation in schools, and after it was a rule of law, and the government at the time took the rule of law seriously. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] Therefore, there was no way to override municipal decisions through government decisions. Without going further into this now, I would like to point out that there was no other legal means of declaring and eliminating segregation than the lawsuit that started then. The difference is, our government said it was okay, there's a lawsuit, it's gonna tell us whether there is segregation or not, and based on the decision, we're gonna make sure that the court's judgment is enforced. You have tried to prevent in every lawsuit, including in this case, the court from stating what the real situation is, and now you are trying to undermine the opportunity for the court to decide on the merits that such damage has occurred and, by the way, what compensation it will provide. From the storyline you outlined here, I turn to Congressman Horváth, a tiny element is missing. In 2012, the court stated that this kind of practice was illegal and that the lawsuit started in 2016 or 2015. During these three years, a number of attempts were made to compensate them for the damage they had suffered. They didn't start with the lawsuit, it wasn't the case, Congressman, that those involved wanted money or that the evil Soros agents had entrusted the people with it. What has happened is that neither the municipality nor the State has agreed to negotiate any compensation in any way to those who have been harmed. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] From here on out, there's no choice but to sue. And I'm sorry, Congressman, but to say that if someone sues the state to enforce their rights, or if someone represents people who are suing the state, it will break social peace, I must say to you that we have very different ideas about the rule of law. That is not a rule of law, Mr President, where the state is always right, that is not a rule of law, Mr President, where it is a foreign agent who helps to enforce the law, that is not a rule of law, where it is possible to take away the right to stand up for one's own interests. I must continue to say that that argument is an extremely low, extremely low-fair way of pointing out certain cases, and without otherwise knowing the circumstances and knowing the circumstances, it refers to this. We don't know why anyone who stayed away from school stayed away from school. We do not know that it was before this segregation, or perhaps I do not say that, as a result, because it is not enough because, by the way, many of the people involved did not become criminals, they live only poor and difficult, because they did not receive good education, but perhaps it was also part of the fact that they did not receive good education. It's an unfair reasoning technique, let me put it this way, without trying to create a mood. I must say that, by the way, Jobbik, who is supporting you in this matter, is making a more fair argument on this matter than you are. I think that is the wrong path, which our fellow Member Ander refers to, that the cooperation of families can be achieved in this way, because this is indeed the critical question of what can be done with the cooperation of families. I think that the approval of the infringement, the limitation of sanctions for the infringement, are not suitable for the establishment of a dialogue between the school and families or the maintenance and family in any situation. I think that calming down, living together, a good solution can only be based on respect for each other's rights. You say that we will talk about this in the next bill, that, of course, there are many conditions for this. That is true, but in this particular case, we are talking about a case where the state violates law. The State cannot violate the law, no solution can be based on the approval of the State infringement. We should be thinking about working on how to enforce everyone's rights, including the rights of students who are often segmented. We don't know how many of these are, Mr Maruzsa, you're right, I don't take the liberty of telling you that it's 500 places or two; even if it's two, it's two more than it should be. I think it's the right thing to do, the ideal thing is to do everything in our power to eliminate these places, and in the worst case, the court can say that. But I would like to make one thing very clear: this is not part of the solution that you are proposing, but is a repression of the problem. The consequence of this is that more students will be disadvantaged, the schools and the maintenance staff will feel empowered to discredit, to violate the rights of the students, because they can expect you to stand behind them, this is not a solution, this is not good. I can say that, of course, the Prime Minister will again refer to international conspiracy. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And all the different things against him, to say politely, so you can argue that everyone wants to hurt him, and everyone conspires against him. [[The president's ringing again.]] But this decision will not stand the test of international law...
u2020-07-02-186	Thank you.
u2020-07-02-187	... does not comply with EU or general human rights rules. Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-188	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu. [[For signal:]] Sorry, DK doesn't have time. [[Gergely Harvesto to the ranks of the governing parties: Give me a little more, you have more!]] Then Congressman László Horváth, Fidesz!
u2020-07-02-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that Mr Arato did not really think of his last thought as we have heard, so that this amendment will encourage teachers to commit infringements. I'm sure Congressman didn't think so, but that's what he said, by the way, it's unfortunate. What concerns the substance of the case and how it is possible to submit an amendment in such a case. The main problem is not that, let's say, my fellow Member Balla does not like it. Come on, go, ask Gyöngyöspata 80 percent, then tell me what's right and what's unfair and who's wrong and who's violent and who can't live in peace. They'll tell you. They just forget it again, because they don't take sides with the majority, because for some reason the majority only matters when they want votes from it, but when the majority has justice, they so very much ignore the minority. They sit upside down again on the horse: they seek relief again, they want to give a passport to those who should be helped to leave this self-relievement set up, leave it behind, so that you do not always get carried away, that you are not responsible for anything, that you are always hurt, and you are entitled, everything goes, and everything goes, and it always goes free, because that is what often throws away the gypsy as a means of political intent. [[16.00]] It's dishonest! And we're not gonna do justice until we can speak honestly, because we can't, because something just started, otherwise it's a positive situation, because it couldn't be because it was a racist who just snapped, because it was right on the teacher, family, student, it was right on top of the media that turned him into a racist. So, first of all, you have to be honest. Yes, if there are wounds, the wounds need to be treated and cleaned, but we can't do it without glued to the pus wound all the time. Yes, it's a benefit of this proposal, even if we have disputes, and social peace, yes, and justice, because it's called not justice? It's okay to meet judgment with the sense of justice and the truth, but it's okay not to meet in a series, not even in a row, it's only legal, and the truth is gone somewhere, and the sense of justice is gone. You don't need a university for that, it works in people without any education. If justice is avoided at such a level, then, I believe that this may be the task of a Member, even as I am, that I am not legally qualified, but that I know what is happening in the affected place, and that I may have a lot of information that does not have, who otherwise speaks with great confidence and combat in the case of Gyöngyöspata. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-190	Thank you very much, Congressman Horváth. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Maruzsa Zoltán, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said within the remaining nine minutes and 25 seconds.
u2020-07-02-191	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you so much for the floor. Time has run out, and I don't want to take full time, but I still have to respond to one thing at the beginning of the injury charge. Let's fix it and separate it when you don't like a judgment. I think that everyone can have an opinion on a judgment, and as the fellow Members have confirmed, the government will, by the way, execute this judgment, but it is another, and I think it is a responsible government position when we look into the justification of a judgment. If we find that the court, at its highest level, claims in this justification that it did not have the right to examine it, that it might decide in some other way that justice could prevail in some other way, because it allowed only and only one kind of decision for the legislative environment, then, I think, in a sense, the ball will go to legislation. It may be the responsibility of the legislator to examine that the legislative environment in which the court does not, in our view, exercise its power of decision as an option to it, but points back to the legal environment, is what it wants to change, and from then on it is a legislative work, the resolution of the legislative background is the responsibility and responsibility of this House. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would also like to make it clear that, of course, the court can continue to set segregation in the future. This amendment of the law does not preclude access to court in such cases, and even in the future, the court may impose an infringement charge in education for any circumstance or disadvantage, where it is otherwise able to prove to anyone that he is at a disadvantage in education and education that he is subject to an injury charge. The amendment of the law changes one thing: such a title must be established not in money, but in education, this reparation, this injury charge. In Hungarian, in the future, if such a judgment is given, the Hungarian State must organise and provide education, stressing once again that not in the same school, if we are born from primary school, not necessarily through the provision of primary school subjects, we do not need to go back to the same level, but there would be a way, and from a labour market point of view, it could be an absolute return if we provided these citizens with IT knowledge, language skills or anything, or in vocational training, with an opportunity that they would not receive a one-time financial benefit, but, where appropriate, for 10-20-30 years, with a job opportunity that would result in a much more favourable income situation for them. I am very curious about what will happen to those affected after the execution of the judgment. I'm sure there will be sociologists who will do this research for us. I suggest that, in 5-10 years' time, we look at this together once and see what effect it has had, what career adjustments have been made for individuals who, through the execution of the court's judgment, will soon have this amount at home. With regard to the 2009 situation, when you said, Mr Arató, that you wanted to, but you couldn't, because the municipality owned the school, we all feel that this is a bit absurd, but I have to add, you are right. After 2010, this government was not able to take immediate action on this school either, since it did not have the maintenance rights of the institutions. I note in parentheses that if the opposition otherwise knew what problems local government school maintenance could create, then perhaps this argument could have been allowed when this government took over school maintenance from the municipalities, and in this way, if it could be said so, it was able to get inside the fence, wanted and was able to act in segregation cases, for example. We are working very hard on the fact that institutions where this problem exists, with development and support in a single maintenance system that can balance differences in the case of state institutions... now the role of the family background in educational effectiveness is falling in Hungary as seen in PISA measurements, and this was clearly demonstrated last December when we showed the latest PISA results. I think that this can be traced back, for example, to the system of school-keeping in the district of education, much more stable and balanced than in the three thousand local school-supporting worlds, but I do not want to go deeper into this. There have been a lot of arguments and counter-arguments, and I think that everyone, every Member, is aware of the importance of the amendment. I would like to underline that, while we have dealt with this one issue a great deal, I would like to say once again on behalf of the Government, this bill contains a lot of good things. It includes the issue of extending textbook provision, strengthening basic art education, supporting the development of ethnic education, and, by the way, it contains a principle declaration against the protection of teachers and school violence, in which, by the way, and with this beautiful thought, I would like to conclude unity in this House that there is no room for violence at school. This item is included in the law, by the way, to protect teachers from any form of school violence. I ask that we also pay attention to these, not only to differences in terms of damages, but also to the provisions of the law, which promote the system of Hungarian education towards quality. That is why the government supports and asks all Members of Parliament to support it, and we welcome it if the bill will otherwise be supported by Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[16.10]]
u2020-07-02-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on certain amendments to the legislation needed to eliminate and prevent violence in schools and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/10863. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2020-07-02-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 25 June 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10863. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions. I could also say, Honourable Parliament, that we will now proceed where the Secretary of State has just left off. But I can also say, and it is a good thing that we have discussed this bill in more than three circles, because once we had a debate on the issues and treatment of school violence in connection with the amendment of the Public Education Act, and then there was a general debate on this subject for more than three hours. But I also have to say that, unfortunately, the illusion which seemed to have become an illusion only later, namely that we agree on the goals and will not be a debate between us, but an instrument debate, and the expectation about this unfortunately proved to be partially unfounded. After all, with the exception of Jobbik, the left has made this bill, which unfortunately took us away from our original intention, at least I think so, an attack of fear and anxiety in certain groups of society. I do not want to say all the things that Mr Secretary of State said in the general debate in his expo and at the end of the general debate in his closing. These are factual things. I would like to point out one thing: that all the elements of the proposal before us are prevention, retention, and, if there is a great need for it, the deterrent, if there is even more trouble, will be an opportunity for rapid and effective intervention. But to claim that the government has done nothing in recent years, and is now standing on the brink of the abyss with his hands held up, is a completely unfounded, unsubstantiated argument, because anyone who says that has not been here in Hungary in the last decade or is completely underinformed. I don't want to list those elements, those pedagogical trainings, those new services from the school psychologist through the social worker through mental health training, and all kinds of programs and schools, and the rest that belong here. I am only asking you and the critics not to see this position as a realistic position even in front of you. The first important element, or the most important, or perhaps not the most important, but the most offensive element of this bill is the institution of the school guard. Let us add here too, Mr Secretary of State said that there have been school police in schools, in more than 3,000 institutions, in primary schools and in secondary schools. True, they spent a lot less time there, but they were in terms of crime prevention, drug prevention, accident prevention. So let's not panic that, oh, my God, the policeman will show up at school because, thank God, the police have already appeared there, and they have been very effective and helpful to the schools. And don't tell me that there's a lot of people everywhere with clubsticks, handcuffs and gas guns invading schools because that's not what this is about. It's clear that they'll go there and be a school guard where the locals ask for it. And if they don't ask because they say he's fulfilled his mission, then they won't. But where they ask, they go. I can give you an example. For example, in Hajdúhadház, where a teacher was severely hurt less than a month ago. During the exam, he was kicked twice in the upper body, then forced to escape from the classroom. And do you know why? That's because he asked the student not to use his cell phone during the exam. And then the police showed up, yes. Then the police showed up with a gun because it was necessary. The primary task of the school guard is prevention, prevention, detention, deterrence, but in the case of what was in Hajdúhadház, intervention. Let's make it possible for the victims to be protected. The school guard will increase the safety and security of school workers and students. Let's not just look for bailouts and acquittals for the unsubs all the time. I can give many examples in many places, in many places, not one, not two, they think they can have a place, and there is help in the school guard. And they want to take advantage of that opportunity. Why would we want to take this opportunity away from them? And once again, it is not mandatory, but accessible to those who ask. Another important element is the reduction of the age of criminality. We talked a lot about the responsibility of the family in the general debate. Perhaps there was also agreement between us that the roots of this whole case were not at school. Violence appears at school, but its roots are in the family, and the family must bear responsibility for how their child behaves at school. The third element is also related to this: if you have to bear responsibility, you will also have to assume the consequences in a negative case, including the withdrawal of family or school visit support. Thank you very much, Mr. President, my time is up.
u2020-07-02-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to speak now on behalf of the Government or later in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Maruzsa Viktor: Now.]] Now. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-07-02-195	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the context of this bill, in the general debate, the representatives of the party agreed that there was no room for violence in schools, threats to teachers, verbal or physical abuse. We have also noted that we are not in a target debate on this issue, but in a tool debate. Today, I confirm once again that the government's aim is to eliminate and prevent school violence. To this end, a coherent set of approaches is needed to ensure that prevention and, in the case of extreme situations, rapid and effective action is possible. I would like to point out that, in recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to prevent intra-school violence, which I have presented in the general debate. Over the past ten years we have doubled the number of school psychologists, as of September 1, 2018, the new compulsory activity of kindergarten and school social assistance through the child welfare care system, strengthened the school system, strengthened the system of crime prevention counselling, introduced new educational training programmes. Among the measures taken, it is appropriate to mention that the government adopted Hungary's digital child protection strategy in 2016, with the aim of supporting conscious value-creating Internet usage, developing conscious media use and emphasising the enforcement of rules and measures to protect children and personal rights. [[16.20]] The strategy also covers the dissemination of restorative harm management in schools. We are now saying that in some areas of responsibility, this should be complemented and that, in addition to continuing these programmes, the school guard should be set up, and this new organisation can make a significant contribution to reducing school violence. According to the proposal, the school guard will be set up as a separate police body under the control of the police, and its members will serve from 1 September 2020 at the place of tasks of the five hundred institutions of education and vocational training in a more critical situation, in which the maintenance of the institution's order will require this most in the opinion of the head of the institution. I would also like to point out that we are currently introducing the system of schoolkeepers exclusively in public institutions, and only in institutions where the head of institutions themselves are asking for it, so the government is not forcing anyone to do so. That's all I wanted to say in the introduction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-02-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, we will start from reality, and that is why we are supporting this bill. Yes, unfortunately, there are families in which assertive communication, constructive problem solving, conflict resolution means nothing but aggression, which, by the way, is the child's biggest victim. There's something to be done about this situation. These young people should also be protected, as well as teachers and fellow students who need to be protected from them, there is no fairy tale, so we will support the criticism here, because there are many. I don't think it's fair for anyone to snort on it... Now, a few days ago, in Kaposvár, at the headquarters of Somogy County, another horrific murder, a 17-year-old young night, killed a good young man who was protecting his girlfriend. So you're not allowed to say that the criminal costs are not charged to the unsub's family, and this bill will also be about this, not just the details of the school security. Why would an honest citizen working hard and minimum wage on three shifts pay his taxes, say, for this son of a bitch's criminal costs? I just can't understand why this is supposed to happen. We can therefore support this amendment. Moreover, if a person fails to fulfill his obligation to society and to his own children to raise his child, who, in any case, should in fact be the embodiment of love, harmony, and vitality in that family, they should take away the family allowance from the child for whom he is responsible if he commits a crime. That's normal. These things have to be blocked somehow. Speaking of school guards, we are forced to support it, and once again we say that we consider it a fire-fighting measure, a temporary forced solution, so that in places where this job is being introduced, the situation can actually normalize and that the constructive pedagogical work that would be the real solution can really begin; the real solution to which, by the way, is to give the truth in such debates and to do so, my fellow Member Horváth will not draw the gypsy card, we will not draw the racist card. By the way, you could also say that to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári and to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész, because, let's say, these tools are often used in connection with me, although once again I say that there is no such thing as blood-primitive racism to express some kind of genetic determination. If such things are mentioned, then I always emphasize that it is a sociocultural determination, which can be overwritten, overwritten by preventive means, it would be best; it can and should be overwritten by the responsibility of the individual, the responsibility of the family, because it must be recognised that change is indeed necessary. And, speaking of these state preventive measures, we could safely add that the Jobbik faction had proposals to amend this bill, not specifically in relation to this law, but in relation to the budget, the budget of next year, which they were kind enough to sweep off in the pro-government benches. I'd like to bring three items here. The budget will spend 842 million forints next year on the establishment of a children's home. We said otherwise it was not a huge item to increase it to HUF 2 billion, because if we had looked at the need for this truly useful, and if they were doing it right, then, if they were doing it well, they should have increased the budget line. It's the same with the schools. It is a very good thing when dedicated educators are dealing with children who would probably be lost or lost in other cases, but if we look at the government's spending 2.4 billion forints on this next year, this is still not enough compared to the needs that would be needed to actually address the problem. And such is the increase in the number of social assistance workers in public education institutions, which, by the way, included 5.5 billion in next year's budget. We say it's very, very little. And let's say that if we put these three things together, then we already have a preventive solution framework that could actually bring about some improvement in the actual problem we're talking about. Let me refer to the excellent State Secretary of the ITM, László György, who talked about a certain double looped vicious circle in his doctoral thesis on social integration. This is about, yes, the responsibility of the state and I have just described the responsibility of the state, because if there were any activities of the Hungarian state, including public education, from which there should be no pity of resources, obviously in a controlled way, not flowing away, then these areas would be, but there is another component of this double looped vicious circle: the modification of personal behavior patterns, and without them it will not be possible. Thus, both individuals and families must recognise that, where appropriate, there must be a change and accept the mandatory standards of coexistence for all, which, if they do not happen, must be applied to such coercive devices, which, by the way, we are truly sorry to see, but we can say that they are necessary for fire fighting. We would like to ask you, and once again in a constructive way, to listen to these amendments, or if you do not like that Jobbik is presenting them, you will bring them, but you will pay much more attention to these problems, because if you can kick them under the carpet, sweep them under the carpet, they will not meet, let us say, in schools, because there will be a deterrent force for the school warden, but at some point, sooner or later, that aggression will break out of that child, that young person, whom, by the way, I should once again drag under the carpet, but his family should socialize that this is not the way to go. But it won't make the victim happy, it won't take David in his early 20s, who was beaten to death in Kaposvár, there in Kaposmérő, to make him happy, it would take a lot more than that. This is the responsibility of the state, as is the fact that there is a sufficient amount and quality of educator available. There could be talk of how feminine the field was, and then, referring to a prison minister named Richard Rohr, to say how harmful it is; that prisons are full of children and people without a father, because we really came into the world with a mother from the parent's sample, and I need the father's model to bring up such a conservative thing here, and if this is missing, then there could be huge problems. [[16.30]] And it can be said that this should be the individual's problem, the family's problem, but the state would also have a responsibility, and really, if we consider the common future here as a basis, and we all fear for this common future, then, when the system of family socialization is affected, then the support should also be put there on the part of the state. This would mean, for example, that the teaching field should not be some sort of disdained and often career-promoting profession, but rather, as it was in older, more fortunate ages, a man should dare to take on it, and not what we see in the statistics now, that, say, in primary schools, I do not want to hurt seven female teachers, God help them, and thanks to their work, there will be only one male teacher. This can all be a problem with aggression management in young people who do not have the right father's image at home. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Hohn Krisztina, Member of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-07-02-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I think it's not so easy to comment on this law, it's very divisive, it shares public opinion, it shares the pedagogical society. Anyone who has felt and suffered from violence within a school or some form of it will certainly live up to this bill; and anyone who teaches or attends a school where such violence does not occur and who generally condemns it. First of all, you have to say that there really is a problem, and this has to be dealt with. I myself have spoken on several occasions about intra-school violence. But there is not only violence against a teacher, but also violence against a child; a child beats a teacher, that's what it's all about, a teacher, a parent, a teacher, and a parent, so there are several problems. What is very important is that these inhumans really need to be treated. Bands can crucify each other, even if a knife can turn up, and unfortunately we see some very extreme examples in the country. Social media often brings up videos that draw attention to the need to do something. However, I think that, in addition to the fact that there is a law that offers a partial solution to this problem, but prevention will be an extremely important task, even more emphasis should be placed on it. My fellow Member said that there are courses, training courses for teachers, and so on. I know, I believe you, but I need more, because I've been talking to a lot of teachers, who said he's not prepared for this, and he doesn't know how to handle these situations. Sensitivity, students, parent training. In the case of abuse, man is not the only one to blame, but the malfunction of the system, the shortage of professionals, domestic, school and workplace tensions can all contribute to the occurrence of these cases. Overburdening teachers, training courses, lack of supervisions, low salaries, the need to take up second jobs, family problems at home, shortcomings in the child and family protection system, and weaknesses can all contribute to the problem. It is also a problem that teachers are not always able to bear the burden, because, I think, they are not properly prepared everywhere; at least twice as many children as the EU average are given to one teacher, and in many cases teachers are even in a state of mental breakdown and are even forced to leave. This simply cannot be resolved only by introducing the school police. Investing in the future is the most useful. Let the government hear the problem and bring a system-wide solution to all the necessary areas. So this is what we are asking, in addition to the fact that this law is likely to be adopted by Parliament tomorrow, we must put even more emphasis on the problems I have said, on further training, on children's ability to participate in anger management or problem management trainings. There are not very much community-building, team-building programs; the school has disappeared, the concept of your second home. The schools get the right place in the ranking, the schools give the material to get the paper, and the rest is not the school's responsibility. There is no community consciousness, no community life; instead of cooperation, it strengthens competition, there is nothing for the common cause, only disfellowshipping and frustration are characteristic in many cases in the majority of the institutions. I think that when I went to school, communities were much stronger in school, community life was greater; there was all kinds of good practice, fair-sighted day and everything else, when they were dealing with our problems in class, we could say these things, and I think that it was much more effective to deal with problems within the community, and maybe it got less complicated so that there was a fight and there was much more respect for teachers. We wouldn't have thought of talking back, let alone beating up a teacher. And it's really outrageous that a teacher gets punched in the back with a pulmonary hemorrhage. And yes, everyone has the right to teach or work in a school where his safety is guaranteed. This also applies to other sectors; consider, unfortunately, an act that took the life of a family supporter not so long ago. So we need safe jobs everywhere, that's a fact. Otherwise, we will be presenting a proposal for a decision on the subject later, in which we will make proposals for further addressing the problem. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2020-07-02-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group.
u2020-07-02-201	Thank you very much. I resist the temptation to continue the general debate, like my fellow Members and Secretary of State. I would just like to point out, because this is a new development compared to the general debate, that while there is still the kind of identity that the Secretary of State has referred to, that we really continue to agree that school violence is a serious problem, that it is present in Hungarian schools, and that we have to take action against it in a slightly different way, I believe that the government's actions so far have been effective; this is also shown by the cases that seem to be still to be done, but what is a new development is that we have learned a little bit more about the conditions under which the school guard will be created. And what we have learned is even more disturbing than what we had previously thought, since it was said here that it would be the officers who were essentially decommissioned from duty, but it turned out that this was not the case. It turns out, after a few weeks of training, someone could be on duty as a school guard. I have to say, we expect less from a school guard we're letting into our children than from a security guard who's guarding a warehouse. I think it's a very serious problem. I'm honestly telling you to think about this. I understand that you're insisting on this, which is what you're hoping for. I fear that they are wrong, but if they insist on this idea, they should still create the conditions for this. Consider that this is a type of responsibility, you really have to decide on the assessment of a complicated pedagogical situation, about what is right and what is wrong; when to use violence, and when to do so. I think, once again, that it won't work this way, that it won't work out this way. At the same time, however, we continue to think that there is a need to combat school violence; we continue to think that setting up a school guard is not the most effective tool. We see that the situation in schools is not so serious, fortunately, that only by force would it be possible to keep order there. I mean, if so, because I know that Congressman mentioned such an example in the morning, unfortunately the police have to intervene there today, but that is a failure, as we are concerned, that there is a need for police intervention. The school guard won't help us solve these situations. Finally, I would like to say very quietly, and in fact I agree with Mr Ander Balázs that we are taking this debate in a very wrong direction if we follow the method that he has just done, saying that there is a minority and that there is a majority, and who thinks that this or the solution is not good who thinks that it should not be done in one way or another, that he thinks that there is a majority at the expense of the minority. I would like to point out that this is not the case. If you think that the school guard is not a good solution, you do not think it is at the expense of a minority, especially those who are violent, you need to act against those who are violent, at the very least you seem to think that, like a significant part of teachers' unions and teachers, there I do not know who the majority is, and not the minority, I know that many teachers and teachers have spoken in the past, and you have said that this is not a good tool to deal with this problem. [[16.40]] So what I'm asking is that we don't make minority-to-majority questions out of questions where it only hurts and doesn't work. Do you know why this is dangerous? Because you always tell me who the majority is and who the minority is. They come up with the demand that anyone who thinks otherwise should be branded. And today, let's say, in the previous debate, the Roma of Gyöngyöspata may be the target, but there will be others you believe will be. Where are the migrants, where are the Soros organizations, where are the lawyers, where are the lawyers. They always make an enemy and fight against it. The issue of school violence is too serious for you to use it for such political games.
u2020-07-02-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Horváth, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also want to manage well with the time still available, but I would also like to say to Krisztina Hohn that, on the one hand, this issue does not really share public opinion, and I think that the public clearly rejects school violence. And to do more, you're right. I agree with a lot of what you have said, as well as with my better fellow Member. There's always more than enough, and good can always be done better as long as people do something. I was just calling attention not to deny the things that have happened so far. And if it has value, and I think on this road, even if there are sharp arguments, but let's just stay here, let's be honest, let's have the courage to be honest about things. Yes, and let us have the courage of the majority... The fact is that simple math, my fellow Member, Arató, there is also a majority in a school, arithmetic! There are more of them, and there is also the right of the majority, because those who do not study live up to their own future. And those who don't let others learn because they act like they're taking away the future of others. Now, it is the right of the majority, when we say that we can't, that no student has the right to take away the future, to take away the opportunity to learn from others, or to force others to back down by speaking, breaking the clock, aggression, aggressive celebrity. 'Cause where there's violence, we talked about it, there's escape. If you can, you're on the run. If you can't, you're gonna get hurt. And the end is total failure, by the way. We also talked about such examples, that the school would be vacated and then closed. And it's bad for everyone. There's no winner in this game. I would just like to ask that we carry on with this debate. We also told you that this is a complex, complex case. There are many elements. We have brought to Parliament those who have requested a legislative amendment. And, yes, let me tell you one more thing. There is a standard, there are basic standards in society that are out of the question. One of these basic standards is that school teachers, students are not allowed to be intimidated, threatened, abused. And the social environment and the situation here doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter what kind of people they are. Everyone, every family, has to do this for their kids to go to school. After that, we can talk about many things, but this standard must be observed, and there is no exemption from compliance with this standard. No one. Because the whole point of school is to lose it if we don't keep that standard, because where there's violence, we can't teach or learn. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn for the time available.
u2020-07-02-205	Thank you very much. I really don't want to waste any time, but I'm gonna tell you what you've done so far, and we're gonna tell you what else needs to be done. Well, that's what it's like. Opponents, governing parties, we're just saying what the shortcomings are. No one said anything happened, but we have to keep saying it. So that's how it is. I think that's what we do. Thank you.
u2020-07-02-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-02-207	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are convinced that the presence of school guards in the institutions will increase the security of teachers, trainers and students in vocational training, and will be a deterrent for students who would threaten or abuse their teachers or fellow students. We are doing everything in our power to reassure Mr Arató that preparation is also important to us, so I am not saying it as a criticism, but we fully agree that it is important to prepare. We are thinking of a short, but very effective, about three weeks of training, but it is not the end of preparing a school warden at this time. We can talk about a start-up system, and we want to continuously create digital content and materials for them, which will be able to present continuous good practices in the system that is now on its way up. It's already done now, and there's a piece of paper that's done that's putting together case studies. By the way, we've collected several descriptions of typical or characteristic cases that we've been trying to prepare them for in recent years. I do not think that there is a need to train this training for a longer period of time. However, it is important that it really is an effective training. With Mr Ander Balázs, I think we see the issue of the matter in the same way. And I very much agree with Mrs Krisztina Hohn that the role of the community, the student-student relationship in schools, was very different at some point in time. Obviously, we are also trying to strengthen this by a number of means. It's obviously from weeks to weeks without limit! through excursions, the day of national cohesion, highlighting only a few, both in a sense and in a way, while representing dedicated programmes on some subject, is suitable for building a school community. I think it is very important for social cohesion and it has a role to play in reducing intra-school violence. We ask the Parliament's support to vote on this bill tomorrow. Let us trust together that this complementary measure, in addition to the existing measures, which we will also strengthen, will really help to reduce violence, and we hope that violence will disappear from schools. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-02-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following a series of reports on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2019 and on the operation of the institution for Parliament, together with the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision to adopt it, until its closure. Report submitted by the State Audit Office B/10466. and the proposal for a decision by the Economic Committee H/10624. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposals will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay special tribute to President László Domokos, President and staff of the State Audit Office. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. Mr. President, please.
u2020-07-02-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Act on the State Audit Office states that the President of the State Audit Office shall give the National Assembly every year information on the activities of the organisation in the previous year and on the measures taken on the basis of the audit findings, and shall present the institution's operation and management in an annual report audited by an independent auditor. [[16.50]] In accordance with this legal requirement, on 13 May 2020 we submitted to Parliament our information on the activities and operation of the State Audit Office in 2019, in view of the health emergency by electronic means, but we also printed it out, so it is also accessible in this way. I do not think I need to be particularly specific about how events in recent months have created an unexpected situation for all of us. Because of the coronal virus epidemic, the whole world, including Hungary, has had to face or face challenges that we may not have had in the past, or at least in decades. However, life could not have stopped, so I would like to stress that the application of the Fundamental Law cannot be suspended in a special legal order, so the State Audit Office has also carried out its duties in the event of a health emergency in accordance with the rule of law. We have ensured the financial and economic control role of Parliament, thereby contributing to the maintenance of the rule of law in public finances. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Our briefing to Parliament presents comprehensively the results, experiences and conclusions of our year 19. This time, too, we have sought to present our last year in a transparent and understandable way, in line with your needs. This is extremely important for us, because the most important task of the State Audit Office is to support the work of the Parliament, contributing to the legislation, the well-managed state. Thank you so much for being our partners in this. Hungary's Fundamental Law, its public financial chapter, and the laws enforcing these provisions of the Fundamental Law provided an appropriate framework for the Hungarian system of public financial accountability in 2019. Thanks to the decision of the Parliament, from 1 January 2012, the protection of public funds and public wealth became a worthy rank in Hungary with the entry into force of the Fundamental Law. The main constitutional mission of the State Court of Auditors is to support the requirements laid down in the public financial chapter of the Fundamental Law, such as the practical implementation and development of the principles of legality, transparency, expediency, effectiveness, cleanliness of public life in the public financial system. It follows from this that the State Court of Auditors is a public financial guarantee organisation defined in the Fundamental Law, whose aim is not to find faults or condemn them, but to steer public finances in the right direction, to start and maintain positive changes, in short: to facilitate the implementation of the public financial standards provided for in the Fundamental Law. Our aim is to make the use of public funds more transparent and effective with our wide range of teaching activities, supporting self-tests, analyses, opinions and proposals, and to contribute to the efficient functioning of public services institutions and systems. On the basis of this strategic objective, the findings of verification, based on facts, are substantiated and objective, supported by evidence. It would not be possible to achieve our goals without pursuing continuous development. As I have already pointed out, in the last ten years, the State Audit Office has carried out a complete organizational and methodological renewal. One of the most noticeable results is that in 2019 the SAO increased the number of audited organisations by more than 60 percent compared to the previous year. On the one hand, the new monitoring-type audits on digital funds introduced in recent years allow the Court to carry out audits of the audit type most appropriate to its tasks, thereby enabling it to carry out audits of all municipalities in one year this year. On the other hand, with our new control methods, the SAO has been able to control hundreds of controlled organisations at the same time. Thirdly, monitoring-type audits based on digitalisation are far less burdensome than previously, contributing to the reduction of bureaucracy. Dear Parliament, In addition to 254 Court reports published in 2019, analysts of the SAO carried out more than 32 analyses last year. These included priority economic and social areas such as sovereign debt reduction, VAT collection, prevention of corruption, employment and job creation, health, family support, child protection, climate change, and more. The aim of our legal advisory and knowledge-sharing activities is to provide guidance, on the one hand, through the provisions of the Fundamental Law and, on the other hand, the decisions taken by the Parliament in recent years, which provide additional tasks for the SAO. Dissemination of integrity-centred organisational culture, prevention-based anti-corruption, or setting up and launching the foundations for ethical public financial leadership, methodological development of control or supervisory bodies, or the development of economic awareness and financial security in Hungarian society are all missions that directly and indirectly contribute to the fulfilment of their role by the provisions of the Public Finance Chapter of the Fundamental Law, and you have also confirmed their support in this decision. We also provide feedback on the implementation of these parliamentary decisions in our communication. Dear House, The State Audit Office's contribution to a well-managed state is achieved through a number of tasks and activities. The audit activity and the related measures will all improve and stimulate the responsible, orderly and transparent management of the audited. Control experience is being used at several levels. They aim, on the one hand, to strengthen public financial protection lines and, on the other hand, to highlight risks and to provide support in mapping areas that still need improvement. With the help of the new control focus areas, we can control even more institutions, thus increasing the control coverage of public money and public wealth use, thus giving society a more complete picture, and the analysis contributes to the foundation of controls and to the initiative of legislative change, and also to advisory activities. In 2019 the SAO's extensive audit and advisory activities focused on five large focus areas. The focus areas were defined on the basis of previous years' experience and the statutory obligations imposed on the SAO, taking into account current public financial risks. The first of these is the priority area, the analysis and evaluation of budgetary and macro-economic developments, which was also highlighted in the Court of Auditors' activities in 2019. In addition to the monitoring of the implementation of the central budget and the opinion of the Budget Act, the Fiscal Council has also prepared analyses to assist you with budgetary opinions, as these analyses and other key macroeconomic or budgetary analyses have been made public. By the way, that is what we did this year, because tomorrow you will have the opportunity to make a forward-looking decision on the budget, on the budget for next year, to which we have also contributed by analysis. Hungary's Fundamental Law sets out first the audit of the implementation of the central budget among the tasks of the State Audit Office. This was also the task of the State Court of Auditors in 2019, whose implementation required the most significant capacity. [[17.00]] In addition to the findings of the audit, our institution has assessed the budgetary and macro-economic processes underlying the achievement of the budgetary targets in a separate analysis, as it has done in previous years. The analysis has highlighted a number of contexts that have substantially reduced the vulnerability of Hungarian public finances and thus the entire country, such as the reduction of the foreign exchange debt ratio within the public debt, the increase in the role of the population in the financing of public debt through their savings, or the flexible system of reserve formation and use in the preparation and implementation of the budget. In the course of its activities, the SAO considers it a top priority to facilitate compliance with the sovereign debt rule. In 19 the focus of the analysis in this respect was the question of maintaining the continued reduction of the sovereign debt indicator in the longer term. The State Audit Office has examined in a separate analysis which factors support and pose risks to the permanent reduction of the sovereign debt ratio. Dear House, Our second priority focus area is the experience of auditing the accounting order. Accounting order is an essential condition for sound management and operation and smooth performance of tasks. In accordance with the Court's statutory obligation, the Court has assessed compliance with the accounting rules of public finances, and has contributed to the regularity, transparency and accountability of the use and use of public funds. In the context of the discharge audit, the Court of Auditors checked the consistency of budgetary management in accordance with the accounting rules. In addition, the accounting system was assessed by the central budgetary bodies during the individual controls of the municipalities, but even for the institutions of the national self-governments. The irregularities affecting the accounting system are repeated as in previous years, in particular linked to the lack of basic accounting rules, irregularities in the exercise of control activities, the lack of records of commitments and the lack of clearance of certificates. Accounting accounts duly substantiated and consistent with accounting principles are necessary not only to fulfil the statutory reporting obligation, but also to provide objective and reliable information on the organisation's own financial, financial and income situation and on its development to external actors and interested parties, which are necessary for economic operation as well as for the establishment of economic operators' management decisions. In 19 of our third priority focus area, national wealth management and financial management were controlled. Under Hungary's Fundamental Law, all farmers are obliged to treat national assets and public funds in accordance with the principles of transparency and the purity of public life and to account for their public finances to the public. The Court of Auditors carried out its audits on the management of national assets and public funds in 19 large areas: municipalities, the central sub-scheme for public finances, and organisations outside the public finances that managed national assets or public funds and received central budget or municipal grants. Last year, the Court evaluated four municipal groups, a total of 781 municipalities, in financial, asset management and indebtedness areas. This has contributed to identifying risky areas that require systemic or individual intervention at local government level in order to ensure the sustainability of the financial balance of municipalities. On the basis of a new approach in 19 and based on the control of the internal control system, the authorities also carried out checks on debt settlement and investment activities. The Court audited the operation and management of municipal-owned companies, which we also carried out a four-summary analysis of the experience of these audits in the context of our advisory and supportive work. The area of health has also been given a special role in 19 of these controls. The SAO also summarized the statutory audit experience of the financial and asset management of hospitals, as well as the monitoring of emergency care. The control of asset management in relation to cultural assets has also played an important role, which covered the provision of public tasks and regularity for the proper management of assets with respect to the management of cultural assets classified in national state assets treated in state-owned public collections, treated as state-owned and protected cultural assets, as well as for the provision of tasks and regularity in relation to reserved organisations of ownership, sectoral management and supervision rights. During the audit of the State-owned companies, the SAO assessed the regulation of the operation and management of the company, the regularity of the performance of the financial, accounting and reporting tasks, the protection of data and the regularity of the management of assets. We have paid particular attention to the monitoring of the elements of the management of companies classified in the government sector that have an impact on the deficit of the government sector and on public debt. The SAO continued to monitor the regularity of the asset management, asset conservation and enrichment activities of majority national owned companies. Last year, the SAO also checked non-public finances and we are increasingly checking it, as we see huge risks in this area. In recent years, institutions providing non-public human service have been constantly expanding and receive substantial budget support each year to carry out public tasks. The SAO also audited the foundations of civil society organisations in 19 which also received significant support from the central budget and summarized its audit experience in an analysis. It is important to note that the Court has also checked the management and functioning of institutions which carry out audit and supervision activities. They are now the National Tax and Customs Office, the Hungarian State Treasury and the Hungarian National Bank. Our fourth focus area is the development and consolidation of integrity thinking to protect against corruption threats. The Court conducted its annual integrity assessment with a renewed methodology within the framework of our integrity project and published two analyses on it. Our organisation not only analyses and evaluates, but also controls the establishment and functioning of organisational integrity controls to protect against corruption threats. The integrity as a focus area has been in the Court's internal control audits for years, but it has appeared as an independent audit topic in our audit palette last year. The new audit methodology allows risk-based assessment of the key integrity control of hundreds of institutions at the same time, highlighting systemic shortcomings and strengths. We have carried out nine further analyses that have worked on the experience of the integrity assessment and the findings of the audits on integrity controls in an area previously assessed under individual control, precisely because we see that there is still a need for a wide range of knowledge and leadership practices in this area. One of the specific areas of corruption prevention is the enforcement and control of legislation on the management of political parties and campaign financing. International criticisms of party and campaign funding in Hungary and their monitoring until 2010. The European Council's anti-corruption group, the so-called GRECO in 2010, even proposed in the report on Hungary that the State Audit Office carry out more frequent, proactive and faster controls in the field of political funding, including preventive measures and a quote for greater disclosure of financial irregularities. [[17.10]] As a result of the international proposals and the SAO's audit experience, the Hungarian Parliament has tightened the legal environment for the control of parties from 2010 onwards, as well as the rules on campaign financing, which allowed for the tightening of the Hungarian practice of controlling political parties in recent years, which also defines the SAO's audit method and practice. In Hungary's audit practice and in the Court's activities, progress was confirmed by GRECO, the organisation of the European Council, and he wrote in his report of 15 that the Court of Auditors had made remarkable progress in the area of campaign money and party control. It is in the interest of the fundamental rule of law and protection against corruption affecting public funds that parties manage properly, accountablely and transparently with the funds received from taxpayers and their supporters. All of this is extremely important because the transparency and accountability of party management also affect the country's international judgement. If a party accepts prohibited support or does not ensure accountability in accordance with the statutory requirements of public funds or does not make a report in accordance with the law, it is not guaranteed that it is managed transparently, which indeed raises serious corruption threats. It is important that citizens and members and sympathizers of the parties receive a reliable and fair view of the management of the parties through the financial statements of the parties. For the sake of clarity, transparency and accountability of political life, it is of the utmost importance that parties manage only from legitimate sources in a transparent manner. The Court of Auditors has fully carried out legal checks on the management of all parties receiving budgetary support within the framework of the law and in accordance with the rules. Last year, he controlled two parties and carried out an audit of the funds of the Parliamentary Election Campaign for 18 years. In addition to the statutory controls, we supported the regularity of the management of parties receiving budgetary support through a number of advisory tools. In recent years, the SAO has published an analysis of the experience of monitoring parties and party foundations, self-tests to strengthen the legality of the future management of parties and party foundations on its website, as well as a consultation opportunity for experts responsible for the management of the party. This shows that the purpose of the State Audit Office is to support the legitimate management of parties. The SAO has also contributed to the strengthening of the integrity view with other activities. Thus, our institution has provided training on integrity issues for the leaders of public sector organisations as well as integrity advisors, and has also carried out self-tests in other areas, and has made this available. He held conferences and professional meetings, and as an invited lecturer we also represented ourselves as participants in a number of events. In addition, last year, the Court of Auditors was a prominent, active player in the international community of SAIs, shared and exploited best practice in the field of integrity development. Finally, the fifth major focus is performance audits, where last year the Court of Auditors placed particular emphasis on measuring the social effectiveness of the audited measures. The actual measure of the effective use of public funds is, in fact, the satisfaction of the stakeholders with the measures taken. The Court's audit therefore aims not only to ensure the orderly functioning of public finances, but also to support the development of public services affecting the quality of life of citizens through the evaluation of the functioning of public supply systems. To this end, our institution has conducted a check on the emergency care system or the child food system. The Court assessed the performance of the audit bodies on the basis of both conformity, appropriateness and performance criteria and assessed the views of the recipients' citizens. These two audits have pointed out that it is appropriate to assess the performance and performance of the public service on a regular basis and on a number of aspects. Dear Parliament, Similarly to the previous years, the Court of Auditors made a statement in its prospectus last year to Parliament in order to further develop the responsible public financial management. Our proposals this year and in recent years concern areas of national and social importance such as cooperation between public financial control systems, strengthening coordination, developing digitalisation in the public administration, strengthening the regulatory environment for public investment, improving public asset management, the importance of reserveing in the central budget, improving the integrity of local authorities, protecting them against corruption and spreading performance measurement between public sector organisations. With regard to the latter, I would like to point out that, according to the Fundamental Law, public money, public wealth, must not only be used in a regular way but also in an effective manner. To this end, it is essential to measure performance in order to ensure that the strategic objectives are properly prepared, well-founded; to achieve the objectives can be measured and, if necessary, to allow for the correction of the means to achieve the targets in order to achieve the expected results. However, there is an area where this is not a requirement, for example, the SAO does not have such a role in the spending and campaigning of parties, so obviously this has not been assessed in accordance with the law. During performance audits, the Court does not seek errors, but calls the attention of the managers of audited organisations to areas at risk from the point of view of performance. On this basis, it is appropriate to increase the number of organisations knowingly applying performance measurement and to strengthen the definition of performance criteria in order to ensure effective management of public money and public wealth. We therefore set out to launch a movement among the Hungarian public sector organisations in order to improve and strengthen performance measurement, according to a practice similar to the spread of the culture of integrity in Hungary, and if the Parliament confirms this in its decision, the Court of Auditors will have a greater background to do so. Dear Parliament, Before I finish, I would like to briefly mention that due to the historical aspect of the year 2020 it is a special year for the State Audit Office. This year 150 years since the first independent Hungarian State Audit Office started its operation in 1870 and 30 years ago, the independent audit of the Court of Auditors was resumed on 1 January 1990 after a 40-year break in Hungary. This means that the Court has been a guardian of public funds for 150 years and that it has been a financial guarantor of democracy for 30 years. This year is also special to us because Vice-President Tihamér Warvasovszky, who is unable to be present personally, will be 70 years of age in July. I share this with you because the President and Vice-President of the Court of Auditors are statutory regulations, namely the 2011 LXVI. Article 11 Pursuant to paragraph 1 (b), they may carry out their duties and carry out their duties until the age of 70. So Mr. Vice President retires in a few weeks. Almost ten years ago, we took over our mandate together at Parliament's plenary session, and over the last decade we worked together to enable the State Audit Office to fulfil its tasks as defined in the Fundamental Law and other laws and to contribute to the development of public finances. I believe that the results or directions for the development of 2019 have also demonstrated that last year the Court of Auditors has performed its tasks of controlling public funds and public wealth with great efficiency and effectiveness. I am convinced that our briefing to Parliament proves that last year the Court of Auditors fulfilled its statutory tasks and managed effectively and effectively with the public money entrusted to it. [[17.20]] Finally, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament for their work in the framework of using it, using our audit findings, using our experience, discussing our recommendations to the bill, thereby contributing to the use of our work. And in closing my expo, of course, I thank the staff of the Court of Auditors, my colleagues, for their professionally high level of value creation, and allow me to thank Mrs Holman Magdolna, in particular, for this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-210	Thank you very much. Allow me, on behalf of myself and the Parliament, to congratulate you on the 150-year anniversary and wish you and your colleagues further success and successful work. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, who is also the author of the proposal for a decision, will be given a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, for his exposé on the 2019 prospectus, and, on the basis of what has been said and what has been read in the report, we can commend him on the fact that the State Audit Office carries out its statutory tasks year after year with high quality precision and professional knowledge. Thank you so much for your work. In particular, I would like to point out that the State Audit Office of Hungary continued to carry out its statutory tasks during the period of the health emergency, ensuring the Parliament's financial and economic control role, contributing to the maintenance of the public financial and legal state framework. Dear Parliament, In 2019, the State Audit Office also fulfilled its statutory obligations, audited its management by an independent auditor and certified its financial statements as authentic. In addition, I would like to point out that the audit and analysis activities of the State Audit Office support and strengthen the management and use of public funds based on performance and its measurement, in accordance with the Fundamental Law. In this connection, I would also quote the relevant paragraph of the Fundamental Law, according to which the economic entities owned by the State and local authorities are legally, independently and responsibly managed according to the requirements of legality, expediency and effectiveness. These three key words therefore play a central role in the activities of the State Audit Office. It is important to emphasise that domestic-owned companies have an impact on the quality of life and well-being of the population through their activities and therefore must perform the highest level of public tasks while making effective use of the resources available. The SAO's audits will thus, inter alia, help to highlight irregularities in the management of companies and in the use of resources from public finances and, of course, good practices. The assessment of the appropriateness, effectiveness and effectiveness of the tasks of each public entity is focused on the SAO's controls, which are also reflected in the 2019 prospectus. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, I believe that the State Audit Office will play a catalyst role in improving the performance management of public sector organisations through its exploratory checks on shortcomings and good practices. After spreading the integrity view against corruption, the SAO also took the lead in the culture of performance, which the Parliament's Economic Committee fully supports and acknowledges. Based on the experience of the SAO audits so far, we need to establish that there is still room for development in the field of performance-based public spending. There are therefore further challenges to strengthen the basis for assessment before developing and measuring conditions. Similarly to previous years, the SAO made concrete proposals to Parliament in its 2019 prospectus to further develop the responsible public financial management. In this connection, I would like to mention the SAO's suggestion that, in order to manage public money and public wealth, it is appropriate to increase the number of organisations knowingly applying performance measurement and to strengthen the definition of performance criteria. The main reason for this is that the SAO did not even find the conditions for performance measurement in the vast majority of the audited organisations during its audits. As the audits and analyses of the State Court of Auditors highlight, I also stress that the measurement of performance is primarily the responsibility of the body carrying out the public service and its maintainer. However, we can talk about successful progress in this area. From 2020, a government regulation sets out rules for the establishment and operation of the internal control system for some of the publicly owned companies. In this context, therefore, the number one managers of companies should establish and operate a performance measurement system for the activities of the company. The new legislation can exclude risks of person-dependent management, and the Government Decree strengthens the integrity-based, transparent and accountable use of public funds of companies, the non-corruption management of companies, and the preparation of the requirements is supported by a ministerial directive, including a guide to the practical implementation of legislative provisions. Dear Parliament, To quote the words of President László Domokos at the meeting of the Economic Committee, I would like to emphasise once again that a well-performing state cannot avoid measuring the performance, effectiveness and monitoring, evaluation and control of public service. According to the Fundamental Law, public money, public property, must be used not only in a regular manner but also effectively. To this end, it is essential to measure performance in order to ensure that the strategic objectives are properly prepared and well-founded, to achieve the objectives can be measured and, if necessary, to correct the means of achieving the targets in order to achieve the expected results. I would also like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office for their outstanding professional activities in the last year and for their continued proactive and helpful work in the event of an emergency. According to a proposal from the Economic Committee, the State Audit Office has complied with its statutory obligations, its management has been audited by an independent auditor and its financial report has been certified as authentic, and I therefore propose the adoption of a report on the organisation's audit activities, operation and management in 2019. According to point 2 of the decision proposal, the National Assembly draws the attention of public entities to the implementation of the basic law on the principles of the use of public funds and to the application of the law on the use of public funds on the basis of performance. This is why the State Audit Office supports all audit and analysis activities that strengthen responsible management based on performance and its measurement, in accordance with the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in 15-15 minutes' time frame. I give the floor to Mr Sándor F Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[17 .30]]
u2020-07-02-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The mission of the State Court of Auditors is to promote transparency, order and contribute to the functioning of the well-managed state through sound professional and value-creating control of public finances. Accordingly, the strategic objective of the State Audit Office is to ensure that the use of audit activities can be achieved effectively in strengthening social confidence, changing public financial thinking and improving audit organisations, supporting the activities of legislation and answering key socio-economic questions. The fulfilment of the statutory obligations of the State Court of Auditors is a fundamental criterion, but how the Court of Auditors' work can be used is a very important thing. Firstly, I consider it important that the State Audit Office informs citizens of the use of the tax forints they pay. This is a crucial condition for the stability and effective functioning of democratic arrangements. Following the SAO's reports, the audited organisations shall take action. The SAO's recommendations and advice give us a chance to change their management and operation in a positive direction. In addition, the Court of Auditors will make good practice known and present them to the additional auditors. I would point out that since 2010, the SAO has deliberately sought to pass on its experience, which was confirmed by the Court of Auditors' law in force since 2011. Dear House, I would particularly like to mention that the SAO published its report on the statutory control of campaign funds of the parliamentary elections in 2018. I believe that, in order to ensure transparency and accountability in the use of public funds and the cleanness of elections, it is in the public interest that campaign money organisations comply with the statutory requirements. We can recall that there were opposition parties who failed to do so, in exchange for even using prohibited support in their campaigns. I am convinced that criticism can only be formulated when it is in order in its own home. Well, unfortunately, some opposition parties are far from such an example of their farming. Dear Parliament, In addition to the reports, the State Audit Office will carry out analyses and studies to support a well-managed state. As emphasised by the Court of Auditors, the SAO does not comment in its analyses, but highlights contexts and impacts, draws attention to dilemmas, risks and presents results in this area. According to your report on 2019, 32 analyses were published last year. I would like to thank the State Audit Office for its particular importance in informing the legislators about the public finances, public finances and the long-term socio-economic impact of certain laws. These documents were sent to us every time at the time of their publication, just like the four prospectuses made last year for the purpose of good quality legislation, thanks again, and we look forward to the following analyses. I believe that the Court of Auditors has made a significant contribution to the effectiveness of the use of public funds through its analyses, studies and the identification of systemic links. Among his analyses of budgetary and macroeconomic processes, I would like to highlight the SAO's assessment of the effects of VAT reductions on the sustainable whitening process. The main conclusion of the analysis is that it would cause a significant loss of revenue and would have a serious impact on the central budget if this tax was reduced. As is known, the government has had an important tax policy objective since 2010 to make consumption-type taxes more pronounced than income taxes, and to renew the system of complex and over-regulated taxation, tax collection, including VAT payments and VAT collection. The government's efforts to transform the tax structure have led to a steady increase in the share of consumption-related taxes in GDP since 2012. In particular, the VAT is today the largest, dynamically increasing revenue of public finances. In its work, the State Audit Office also examines whether public finances, national wealth management, comply with the principles of effectiveness, efficiency and economy, and there are opportunities to improve performance. An important aspect is the possibility of spreading performance management in the public sector through performance audits. The prospectus shows that in 2019 the State Audit Office concluded the control of the child feeding system. There are a lot of minors involved in the children's meals. The size of public funds used for care, the supply of food to children of age and quality, and in this context health preservation, is a major concern. The SAO also carried out a public opinion poll on the audit of the parents, which highlighted the areas to be developed for the operation of the system. Any parent could talk about this for a long time. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The information provided by the State Audit Office demonstrates that the SAO fulfilled its statutory obligations and shared its audit experience widely in 2019, carried out intensive advisory and information activities, contributed to an increase in financial awareness, implemented a high degree of digitalisation development, and monitored its own performance on the basis of the principles of change management. In my opinion, the State Audit Office also performed its audit tasks effectively in 2019, effectively supported the functioning of the parliamentary committee, and also fulfilled its information and approach-forming tasks. The report before you shows precisely and in sufficient detail the SAO's activity last year, which is clearly considered to be effective, and the Fidesz fraction therefore supports its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-02-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-02-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is indisputable that the most important debate and bill of the year is the negotiation of the budget. I think that what is going on is the second most important, because we should now hear a report on budgetary control, a credible report. It is evident that none of the members of the government are interested in this account, that no one is involved in the discussion of this account; therefore, this tells us something. Mr President, I congratulate you on remembering the 150-year anniversary, but not on an anniversary: this Sunday is just ten years since President Domokos took over the position of President of the SAO, so that in 2010, the President of the SAO took over his position as President of the SAO. CHAPTER VII On the 4th of the month, he was still a member of the Fidesz Group and then VII. President of the State Audit Office as of 5 months. I bring this up because when we take over a document like this account, there is a cloud of words at the beginning, in words that are highlighted in order, cooperation, control, integrity, practicality, they are highlighted in large letters. There's a word for it, independence, with such a little thing. [[He's showing it with two fingers.]] The little one. This is also an indication of the constant criticism that we, as opposition representatives, are expressing that the independence of the State Audit Office is at least questionable. [[17.40]] And you can see in this material, they're trying to make it beautiful, colorful, smelly, full of diagrams to take people's eyes away, and maybe look less into them, behind the words. I would like to highlight one positive point, because I also think it should be mentioned, and I have already said this to Mr President at a committee meeting, and this is the transition to digital control. I consider this to be a very positive thing, the 21st. It is not a question of moving in this direction. You can also see from the figures, because Mr President has also said that more than 1300 inspections have been carried out in 2019, with only around 800 figures in 2018, which is a very large increase, and this is what is really needed to ensure that you control the public funds properly and go where you really need to be checked. I would like to highlight one more area, and that is the control of the municipalities. Mr President said that more than 700 municipalities were checked in 2019 and that, of course, there are more opportunities for the digital changeover, and that in 2020 all municipalities will be checked, which is the control of nearly 3,200 municipalities. However, I think it is important to point out that until 2013, it was compulsory for municipalities to use independent auditors to ensure that the management of the municipality really works properly. This is not mandatory from 2013 and, as the municipalities seem to have less and less money, the Orbán government continues to take away their own revenue [[Sándor Hadházy: That's not true either.]] In this way, they can no longer manage that it is not mandatory, but yet an auditor looks at the operation of the municipality. We know very well that the internal auditor, the internal control, is also extremely important, but it is an independent auditor who can set an absolute direction. Obviously, the State Court of Auditors, even if the data are being provided digitally, may not be able to give advice in all areas, since each municipality has different problems depending on the size of the settlement, for which solutions need to be found. So what I see is that, as we have said many times, in the context of the 2019 report, I would also like to stress that the State Audit Office is doing its job, we see that the amount of paper can be measured in kilos, or we could say that the weight of the report that you are doing is measured in megabytes and gigabytes, but there would still be work to be done here, and it is not certain that the direction of control that you set each year is accurate. Your most important task, as Mr President has said, is to control the use of public funds, but we do not see this happening properly. They do not go to places where I can only highlight one, for example, when billions of public money goes to developments in Balaton, places where the oligarchs near Fidesz seem to get billions of dollars in support, or even visual team sports investments where they also receive billions of government-wide troops. We know very well, and I agree that sport is very important, but let's see what money is spent on. And when an opposition representative goes there and wants to know what you've spent all these billions of forints from the Tao source for, it shouldn't be that you don't publish the data with court papers. I also made it to the village of Tamási when I wanted to find out, I didn't find out. And the State Audit Office seems to have less movement on this subject. So there are things they like to check, and there are things they don't like to check. And that is what has raised me most of the questions in recent years, because if this were to happen as it should be, that they would really select the organisations to be checked using the same sampling method... so I am already terrified of the 2020 controls, which municipalities will find huge shortcomings. I dare say which one, and I think Budapest capital will be in it. So I will look at my fellow opposition Members, and there I will certainly have to go much deeper. I agree that the most important thing is that the authorities function properly, but I respectfully ask you not to choose, to check everyone equally, and to carry out control according to the same rules in all areas, because independence is at least questionable. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-02-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-02-217	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. President. I am pleased that we can have another debate on this. We met once in the framework of the Economic Committee, then we created a positive experience by all of us, on the occasion of the great anniversary, that the State Audit Office was doing its job. The 2019 report... is, in fact, there are two types of documents that we can debate here, on the one hand, there is an information document on which we can draw up an opinion, and on the other hand there is a parliamentary decision that we are about to adopt. Practically based on what has been said, which has been confirmed by our pro-government colleagues, everything is basically fine, we are satisfied with everything, we can go on, there is no problem. Moreover, we are in a lucky position to hear all the favorite and fashionable words from the author of the management dictionary, and therefore integrity is unquestioned even in the organisation of the State Audit Office. Well, I would like to draw your attention to a few things in this regard, because I am questioning this, and that is why I am saying in advance that the draft decision is unacceptable to me. It is just because, if we assume that the State Audit Office can carry out an audit in all areas where public funds are used, the President of the State Audit Office, in the absence of legislation, may, let us say, notice things that would be worth considering if he did so, I would actually draw attention to such areas, and I would continue here, as the Member said, and I would stress the audit tasks of some areas where it seems that the State Audit Office is keeping itself away from these areas, even if it is a basic task to carry out conformity checks, as the President said here at the end, that performance checks and inspections are important in this respect. If we apply this to the parties, then all parties will do their best when there are more Members here in Parliament. If we compare this with the use of costs, it will also be possible to look at comprehensive controls in this respect and then to look at effectiveness. But the sequel isn't this, it's my experience the day before yesterday. In Newpesten, I attempted to inspect or visit a sports establishment. This year, a six billion HUF job should be completed there. Apparently, they're not even halfway there, but the contract has been amended to ensure that by December, the hall will not be built for the work done without cutting the hoof. By December, the contract was modified to make it look like something could happen in this. With all due respect, there's state money in it, a one billion-dollar project turned into six billion forints, which has no record of completion. I am quite certain that it will not happen, and indeed, to my knowledge, the Ministry, which is involved in this, actually slowly acknowledges that they have come down from the work area and are unable to continue. I think that if we could see a lot of such situations and such from the press, the President would pay attention and take advantage of the opportunity that research on the website of the State Audit Office does not, by the way, effectively confirm that you would be interested in the HUF 800 billion that has escaped from corporate tax benefits to sports associations over the last few years. [[17.50]] There was a moment when all of a sudden this became important, I found at least an article or an entry about the use of cultural tao that you carried out that investigation, while you were as if you were distant in the use of sports for many of these. After all, as I understand it correctly, Mr President said at the committee meeting that you are staying away from this, you do not have the authority to do so, while I say that the President of the State Audit Office could, by law, appear to be a meaningful situation which could be considered as a series of abuses. Here I say again, as yesterday's example: the assets purchased from the public funds used by the association as tao subsidies are being sold, and they are once again being paid by the parents to press charges. What you're looking at from this point of view is unacceptable. There are two types of State aid and, separately, corporate tax refunds and subsidies. I think, on the part of the State Audit Office, this example is just one of many. I'd be happy to invite you here, and I think it's a popular fight at the Felcsút Reinforcing Foundation, where it's been impossible to get a paper package for four years. There is a final court order on the issue of contracts and invoices around HUF 15 billion, there is a decision on it, execution has been ordered, and yet the use of this public money seems to be of no interest to anyone. Mr President, It's your responsibility to know what's going on. As a Member of Parliament, we can see that this is not supported by the majority itself in the Parliament's decision-making mechanism, but rather by the majority, he acknowledges that legislation is being adopted which, by the way, constitutes a substantive obstacle to this process. I am not going to go on with the examples, but that is why I am saying that, as the President of the State Audit Office, the organisation of the State Audit Office, would notice, that this situation should be changed, but this change is, of course, possible if it has sufficient independence. If this is not done, then in itself what has been enshrined in the Law on the State Court of Auditors cannot be achieved, and therefore the whole content of the report itself is discredited. In this form, hundreds of reports of the work you have done in the field, because despite what is clearly here in front of the people, and a number of calls for attention have been made, you do not take that into account in substance. Thus, to say that you think and say that it is a well-managed state, which appears through a public budget, where you are authorised to do so, or are authorized to do so by organisations, as I said, it has been used in this framework for more than HUF 800 billion, and this is not really interested in anyone, and NAV does not carry out this kind of control. It was only the Ministry that was actually involved in this with five organisations under the title of post-control, and, to my knowledge, nothing else happened in this respect. For the five options, five areas, of the important processes you mentioned in 2019, I think it would have been useful. I can't help not mentioning a word from the municipal area, because you have raised the issue of local government debt. We are currently debating with Mr State Secretary here, but the municipalities are, to my knowledge, in exactly the same form of debt as, by the way, during the period of consolidation carried out by the Fidesz government. It is practically HUF 1200 billion in account debt and, by the way, it has accumulated in municipal companies. I'll give you one example. Today there was a board meeting in Kecskemét, where the credit line was extended, which was necessary because, by the way, the decision was taken by them to provide credit for the part concerning development, but otherwise to be transferred to work, and there was no own power, so, in essence, compliance with public solidarity requirements in operation will be financed through credit. I don't think that's what you wanted, but what I see is that it's not a city where you have to take credit for it, because it's the consequence of the withdrawals that will now appear as a result of the state budget law. Again, I have to say that there is a lack of credibility in the concern for local governments, because just remember that the three of us present must have remembered that there was a serious debate in this House, at the municipal committee meeting, after 2006, about the need to prevent the debt of local governments, because they started at such a pace, with a large part of Fidesz-led municipalities at the front. If you recall, there was a Kehi investigation in this case. So what happened? For the two-thirds majority required for the municipal law, the government did not have the support, and it was Fidesz who prevented it from otherwise being possible to limit the debt of the municipalities. It was you who expressly supported it, who urged it politically, for example, Mr President, when he was President of the General Assembly of the county of Békés, to have a separate loan, and I could now say a number of other things. So if you've been thinking for the last ten or so years, since you can only think for ten years, if you could look a little further from outside, and you could look at this with an independent eye, then this story, I think, would give you a different view. Now that time has progressed, finally, I would like to mention one more thing in any case. Since Mr President mentioned the recommendations of GRECO and its recognition in an international outlook, we might be able to look at something else, because in the analysis of Open Budget Survey, where 100 points could be reached, Hungary was able to complete 45th place in the rankings. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Before us, they are like Senegal, El Salvador, Paraguay, Colombia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Zimbabwe, Benin. They're above us, and they're doing this job, let's just say, more transparently. European states are light-years ahead of us. So when you say that everything is okay and that everything is okay with you, I think it would be necessary, with more and more overviews, to really ensure it in the priority areas, but this would require political independence, yes, the State Audit Office also to carry out audits where it is obvious that more attention should be paid to this area, because legislation is currently not applicable in this respect. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[18.00]]
u2020-07-02-218	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group.
u2020-07-02-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you very much for the report. My fellow Members have spoken very exhaustively to this truly important agenda. By the way, I'm a little surprised that the interest is so low. I see that three factions do not wish to comment on this question. Never mind, I think that they are obviously preparing to read the minutes of the parliamentary debate, and then they will confirm what has been said here. I am trying not to repeat my fellow Members, and I am trying to start from what we heard here in the introduction. I'm not saying I've read it to the last letter, but I've been going through the material, it's very lousy, it's long. I'll tell you honestly, I find it a little too much to say, say, a little bit of a political uproar with a nice speech. It could have been done much shorter. It's a really nice look, obviously not what we're gonna be arguing about. Here, my fellow Members mentioned the meeting of the Economic Committee several times; it must have been very cozy; I am sorry that I was not there. I hope I won't repeat any of the suggestions that may have been made there. Another payback here for the 150-year anniversary. I can honestly say that this is not the first thing I would think of from the year 2020 that the first independent Court of Auditors was established 150 years ago, but you can obviously congratulate it, it is a very important anniversary, and it is also important to remember this. And then here are the important thoughts and the calling words that we have heard in the report and in the exposé: the fight against corruption, transparency. I am very, very fond of the fact that there is a certain improvement in performance that is more effective in managing public funds. I think we can say that we are at a time when this will be of particular importance. We see that for everyone, we can say that a coronal virus crisis as an unexpected event has triggered an economic crisis that we cannot really perceive yet, but it is certain that it will have very deep and tragic social and economic effects. This underlines, in particular, that the effective use of public funds made available at government, municipal level and in all other spheres is of great importance if we want to address important issues, as there is obviously not enough money to support Hungarian families in a very difficult situation, and we must turn to this. If we consider these in one system, that the anti-corruption action, transparency, increased the use and transparency of public funds, and improved the functioning of the state and the efficiency of government work have been properly achieved, then I can say that we unfortunately disagree very, very much on this, and it is no wonder that as opposition representatives we will not accept this report either, because we do not agree with its findings. Here, several of my fellow Members and both of my fellow Members who spoke before me are calling to facilitate the operation of the - well-managed - state, he said, this was very important, and it was already a calling word in the last year's report. And then here, isn't it, that the mission undertaken and important task is to promote transparency, order and contribute to the well-managed state... and, yes, to add again the increase in performance. I would rather have questions about this than mention specific examples. We can read that the SAO has formed an opinion on the central budget for 2020 and we can sum this up by reviewing the draft budget law for 2020 and the bill contributes to the sustainable whitening of the Hungarian economy, predictable, stable economic processes and provides an appropriate framework for achieving social policy objectives. Now, that's what I'd say with certain calling words: transparency, benchmarking, efficiency. I would just like to mention an example I do not know how much the SAO has been able to take into account the recent budget changes. Vesszőparipám is a project for the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which is included in this year's budget with HUF 80 billion. Quite amazingly, the pro-government majority has encrypted the contract for ten years, the underlying documents and everything necessary to judge and judge the State Audit Office of Hungary, to judge whether this HUF 80 billion, which is 80 billion this year, the next 120 billion, and then 1000 billion, will be useful. Especially in such a crisis, in the event of an economic crisis, when we know that 70 000 new jobs can be created out of 80 billion forints, we can compare this with 80 billion forints planned for this year, whether as a Member of Parliament or as a taxpayer. I think that if we look at this very important, huge budget line, then I can say that we have already started in the wrong direction. So that particular well-managed state, the ideal of this, has already deteriorated or gone in a worse direction, even though we do not agree that the state is fundamentally well-managed. I would be very interested to know what Mr President thinks about this, how the government can take such a step, especially in such an economic crisis, so that it turned out here at Monday's instant Question Time that the Prime Minister was even shocked that all documents had been encrypted here for ten years. I am very interested in Mr President's opinion on this. I'd like to give you one or two more examples of such large systems. This is purely a matter of public-funded organisations. We also argued a lot here on the situation of various utility companies, that they are practically on the verge of bankruptcy, that there is insufficient resources for preventive maintenance and replacement activities. This is clear, we do not have precise numbers; if they fail, let us say, in the case of water utilities due to lack of resources, maintenance works will later, say, require much more public money in case of a necessary pipe replacement or an entire section. For example, this problem has been well known for years, on the basis of the signs of the profession, for the government, but they are not taking action. Or just one of the most recent measures of shutting down personal transport to almost zero on 34 railway sidelines, followed by replacement buses, and the Chairman-CEO of the MÁV said that it was such a successful economic decision that the replacement bus costs 2 billion more. So he didn't even meet the threat reduction, he didn't meet the professional goals, and on the other hand he became even more expensive. But in the same way, the full design documentation of the Paks expansion was submitted here today, and before the government made a decision to make it easier to do preliminary work, and according to experts, it has created a serious economic risk, and we can't even assess it. A huge fund will be built, and in a few months' time, in six months' time, it will be found that this does not correspond to the construction of the entire power plant, then the risk will be borne by the state company, and who knows how many billion forints it will cost. So I mentioned some big system problems, which we believe to be in perfect contradiction with the principles that we have heard here in the prospectus and that the State Court of Auditors should fight for. I would like to add that in this respect we have a related task, and as opposition representatives, it is our job to check the government and draw attention to these problems. Our toolbox, we feel, has fallen sharply. So, for example, to give us, in a debate, in particular, some kind of meaningful policy, professional response to such a question by a State Secretary, it was a long time ago. We are basically seeing political puffs, we are doing the same with written questions, we are no longer getting any answers, so I can tell you, Mr President, that, unfortunately, as opposition representatives, our toolbox is falling. But does the State Court of Auditors have the possibility that, with such huge system problems, where not only hundreds of billions or even thousands of billions of forints can come to the fore only in relation to the water utility system, the current lack of resources is estimated at around 1500-3000 billion in the 15-year horizon, it is really trying to enforce this principle of a certain well-managed state, because I do not really see it. Similarly, I must refer to the municipal operation. There are a lot of examples where we have been able to identify specific cases where the basis is obviously the complaint, that we do so when we find such signs, but in many cases there have already been specific accusations, so to say we have not only overreacted to these things, but the prosecution has already acknowledged that they were justified. I was a local government representative for a long time in Pécs, there not so long ago, in June too, in a local government that had been regularly inspected in June, the prosecution charged him with a particularly significant financial disadvantage for the punishment of economic fraud. There was a case of huge bus purchases. [[18.10]] I filed a complaint in 2017. The laws of justice are slowly grinding, and in 2020 we reached the point where the indictment took place. I am very happy about this, but these cases are only slipping through the system, and millions could be classified here, for example, as hours could be spent listing such cases. How and how can we really take meaningful and effective steps to not only see numbers from the various annual accounts, how much more checks have been carried out, but also to forget such shocking corruption cases and better guard public funds? I'd like to mention one more thing very briefly. The question of campaign funding has been raised. I would be very interested in the President's opinion on the system of campaign financing, especially with regard to fake parties, and we have discussed this a lot, and the money is clearly disappearing here. We feel that, too, it is likely that there should be a legislative amendment, that there should be more means for everyone to have, for the authorities to control these different fake parties and thus to spend public money. Similarly, a fellow Member mentioned the slipping of various propaganda expenditures, when and how the border could be determined, let us say, between so-called government information and party political propaganda. Is the legislative environment effective enough now to go after that, that it is not public money, that it is public money that can be used for government communication, let's say, political propaganda? Is this the opportunity to do them more effectively? Well, I think I have mentioned a lot of system problems and I would be very interested in Mr President's opinion. I think that there are still huge steps to be taken, there is a huge task ahead of us, so that the current level of corruption can be reduced and that we can really say that the Hungarian taxpayers' money is being used effectively. This is particularly important now, at a time when, on the one hand, we are going into the economic crisis created by the epidemiological situation, in such a situation, given the fact that we are already facing challenges that have not been experienced before, either by climate change or by other impacts, and, on the other hand, because of the other likely and then similar epidemiological situations that have reached us, a whole different type of economic policy and social policy must be pursued in order for these important social policy objectives to actually take place. Thank you in advance, Mr President, for your answers.
u2020-07-02-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. In a 15-minute time frame, I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who presents the first sentences of his speech in ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2020-07-02-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! Narodnosni odbor Maddarskog Parlamenta je na sednici 29. juna 2020. godine na osnovu Pravilnika doma 10/2014. 32 paragrapha rasmotrio predlog odluke o izveštaju Državne Kontrole za 2019. godinu. Dear Parliament, Mr President, At its meeting on 29 June 2020, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary adopted a resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. OGY Decision 32. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section B/10466, 12 votes in favour have been taken to ensure that B/10466. H/10624. of the Economic Committee of the Parliament in the course of the report on the professional activities of the State Audit Office and the operation of the institution for the National Assembly. The Committee would like to hold a detailed debate on the whole of its proposal for a decision and discussed the report at the same meeting. The 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. The President of the State Audit Office submitted to the National Assembly a report on its activities, operation and management in 2019 and on the measures taken on the basis of its audit findings. In addition to assessing the functioning of public bodies, the practicality and effectiveness of public tasks they perform, it provides guidance on how to increase efficiency, which greatly promotes the sense of security for public service providers and public service users. Complete or improve the deficiencies identified during an audit conducted will result in proper functioning, which is in the common interest of all of us. It is also true that it should be followed that public sector entities should continuously assess their performance and develop their management and management activities in addition to fulfilling their responsibilities, in compliance with all the requirements of the management and internal control system. However, I would point out here that it is not nearly possible to assess the role of national authorities according to a system of criteria that governs the activities of local or regional authorities. Performance-based farming should be seen in a completely different light for a minority municipality, since organisational objectives differ widely from local authorities. We also take this task seriously by the leaders, staff and advocates of the local governments representing the Hungarian nationalities, as the quality of tasks required by our community can only be achieved along the route of efficient management. We are gradually paying attention to the maintenance and professional operation of our institutions, so that we can ensure that our organisations, the future generation, retain their ethnic identity. Not to dispute the fundamental importance of the audits of the State Audit Office and the weight of its findings during the detection of errors, in relation to the lives of nationalities in Hungary, I share the following with you in relation to the report. Several of my fellow spokespersons spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that the report was sommasly formulated, and I quote: "The financial and asset management of the institutions in the maintenance of national minority self-governments was not in order. For these institutions, accounting records and annual budget accounts were not reliable, because of the lack of inventory, the protection of national assets was not ensured, and the end of the quote on transparent, efficient and responsible management with national assets. This is particularly detrimental to nationalities, since the analysis by the State Court of Auditors of the audit experience of institutions in the maintenance of national minority self-governments in 2019 contains the audit experience and findings of 13 institutions in 2014-2016, and yet it contains a general condemnation which the national minority leaders rightly object to, since this period coincides with the period of large institutional takeovers. It can be concluded from the two sentences cited above and included in the report that in 2019 institutions in the maintenance of national minority self-governments were not functioning properly, were not reliable and were being managed irresponsiblely in these areas. We cannot agree with this short reprehensible statement. The majority of people are familiar with the content of the accounts of the State Audit Office in 2019 and do not take any further care to learn the analysis of the audit experience of 2014-2016. I have to mention here that the municipal self-governments do not have an independent office, the regularity of their work also depends on the legality of the work of the notary and the apparatus. It is also stated in the report that the self-test of national authorities made available by the State Audit Office was completed by 119 national authorities. [[18.20]] The large number of self-tests downloaded also suggests that national authorities wanted and want to comply with integrity-based, transparent and accountable public funds, since they have an elemental interest in operating on the basis of legitimate and transparent management. The SAO's audits were intended to establish that the maintenance staff were properly exercising their functions in relation to their institutions, that the institutions were functioning and managed properly, and that their internal control system protected the institution's resources from losses and from improper use. However, contrary to the deficiencies identified during the checks, it is not indicated that there was no circumstance of loss of property, negligence in management or unlawful operation due to errors. In my opinion, the analysis drawn up from the experience of the checks carried out five to six years ago should not reflect the assessment of the current management of the minority self-governments. The purpose of the analysis is to draw the attention of the management of the national minority authorities and the institutions to the risks inherent in the performance of the tasks by the State Court of Auditors through the analysis of the audit experience of the institutions of the national minority self-governments, and not to establish a short summary, in this case negative, of this analysis for each minority self-government. A summary of experience opens up the possibility of making the organisation's tasks more regular and effective, making the use of public funds more transparent and orderly. The general audit findings shall include deficiencies in the control activities, i.e. the information and communication system and the functioning of the monitoring system, the partial lack of a set of financial impact non-regulated issues in the internal rules and the partial lack of internal requirements related to integrated risk management systems. The lack of some of these internal standards is considered to pose a risk to the proper functioning and management of institutions and to the proper use of public funds. The operation of control activities and the establishment of an information and communication system for national authorities are also specific issues, since they have a small number of apparatus and, consequently, the monitoring and supervision of the implementation of management instructions will also be carried out on a daily basis. In this way, the job provision is adapted to lifelike day-to-day work. The general findings of the checks often reflect the fact that, in addition to covering the absence of internal rules and establishing the resulting irregularity, the essential fact that the management of national authorities and their institutions is appropriate, efficient and effective is almost mapped. I feel that, because of one or two irregular minority self-governments, they have created a general negative picture of the economic activity of nationalities and that this stamp must be borne by all local authorities operating responsibly and for a specific purpose. We work to put in the hands of our children the values of nationality that should be passed on, as this will ensure the preservation of our culture and language. We think, plan and act responsibly and forward-lookingly. Thank you for listening.
u2020-07-02-222	Thank you very much for the voice of the ethnic advocate. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2020-07-02-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry I asked you to speak again, but I forgot to ask you one question. Mr President mentioned that the State Audit Office is constantly undergoing methodological renewal and that the purpose of the audits is to steer the operation in a positive direction. My question on this matter would be how Mr President appreciates the current system. On the one hand, for example, this has been opposed by many people to the fact that there is no substantive remedy after publication of the results. How do you judge the various procedural issues, Mr President? Shouldn't we review these? For example, very, very short deadlines. Almost everyone objects to the very short deadlines for uploading the various documents, and to the fact that there is no possibility to fill in the gap, there is no possibility to add additional documents, to draw attention to the fact that such documents may still be available on the subject of the specific audit, that they cannot publish the audited special opinion or their own reaction to the opinion, or that in many cases the findings of the State Audit Office are very, very general. Therefore, it is not possible to find specific problems, but rather very general, and it is less possible to reattach them in terms of proper operation. I would therefore also be interested in Mr President's opinion on such procedural issues and the need for methodological renewal, in particular in relation to procedures, and that the legislative environment should not be modified in such a way that there is also an opportunity for redress. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-224	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who is obviously preparing and wishing to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2020-07-02-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear Speaker, First of all, thank you for clearly reading the report, the brochure. 87 pages. Could be a lot, could be a little. We tried to make a lot of diagrams of what there were, who challenged us to relax and make the work more transparent. It's an extremely complex job, and that's what you may all have recognised, and you obviously sense that we're talking about a huge area. I'll give you some numbers. One year, the total revenue and expenditure amount is HUF 45 000 billion, which is called public money each year and is subject to public control. But the circle is much wider, as there are more than 2 thousand companies in Hungary, but obviously this is not within the public finances, it is also about the amounts involved. I tried to show that sometimes a check of one or two million forints is justified, and sometimes we get painful results. Sometimes 800 billion seems a lot, but we don't check it, you say, or we don't check it now, but maybe sometime later; I assume you don't assume you don't. Although more people seem to have made progress compared to last year, they have now tried to reflect the content of the audit findings only as representatives of the President of the SAO ten years ago. I told you then, I'm telling you now that the SAO's president is not making the findings, but our audit leaders are doing it, professionals and the auditors. And here I'd like to answer the question of why you have to give me a document immediately. Not now, thirty years ago, it was voted in 1989 in party state time, almost unanimously, as I understand it, the law which imposed such immensely strict conditions on the SAO. Besides, it was a very difficult economic environment to remember. It was then that Hungary had 20 billion dollars in external debt, and there was a coming out here in Parliament, which called for a solution to the Members of the time, and they reached back to the system of an eight-named Court of Auditors before 48, obviously in a modernized framework. [[18.30]] Why do I need the document now? Because the SAO does it on the basis of evidence, the SAO or our auditors, our audit directors and auditors examine the evidence, the evidence at that time, because the SAO does not have investigative powers, but the SAO is an SAO of an official type, so what you, as party leaders or head of a nationality institution or any economic company, are passing on, our colleagues conclude from the fact of the evidence that what happened two, three, four, five years before that process, so it must be done, the document must be complete when requested by the SAO. Indeed, earlier this was a... I have examined this question, which has appeared several years ago. We have tried to make it clear that we are monitoring our programmes, so that the programmes should specify the place of law and what document is needed. So, in the past, there really were such very general things, almost any document could be sent in, and then it really was not clear what the Court of Auditors wanted; I think it has made a lot of progress in giving a detailed description of what document it needs. So, as identified by law, it is clear, on the basis of the laws created by you, what is the evidence on which we need to carry out an assessment, we need to carry out an assessment of the regularity of public money management, and in some cases even of its performance. So, evidence-based is our answer. By the way, the legislator said, "Immediately," but it provided at the latest five days, because it is possible that, let's say, colleagues are on leave at the time, so they must be ordered. They do, and we thank you for that, because it creates the conditions. I have done one more thing to suggest you or your predecessors before: today we are sending out a pre-notification as to where we will go, and first we ask you to appoint the cooperating partner. Therefore, you are no longer caught by surprise that the SAO will be monitoring you, but you are looking forward to, if you like, at least in the best case, mostly, 99 percent of the Court of Auditors' audit letter informing you of exactly what you need. And it's right this way... If it is given electronically, after the law does not make it mandatory, but we receive more than 90 percent of the data electronically, then we can be informed by the verified that he undertakes to send it electronically, and then the law gives us within five days. Obviously, now, when the virus issue was concerned, mayors specifically indicated that this was a problem for them, and there was obviously a way to justify it when he specifically asked for it to be communicated at a different time. Why can't you replace the documents? That was also a question. Because if you have replaced it, the SAO will not be able to reconstruct the given situation, but will be able to do a later repair activity, but otherwise, in the last two years, we are giving you more opportunities to do so, also listening to your request. What we are doing now is that whoever we really see wanting to be corrected, we are trying to ensure that they are already carrying out, during the control of the present and the future, the implementation of proper statutory policies or reports or inventory. This does not make much sense backwards, because it has already happened, and you have created the Court of Auditors to evaluate past processes. It would be a misleading assessment if we, with the improvements in the present, were to make the mistakes of the past period disappear, which would then be challenged in a series of ways as to why we would not find out. So what we are looking for is that we retain the facts of our auditors, the findings, and we inform you about this in a notice letter or other letter that during the inspection, if they change, we will tell you what or what they are correcting, they will not modify what they are correcting, we will evaluate and indicate separately. The only problem with this is that the process of control is slowing down, so the actuality is obviously slipping, as it takes more work and time, but at present it needs to be said, and you will see this, in our reports this year more and more where we tell you what was wrong, but we will inform you in our reports about the activities that mitigated the risk or improved regularity or improved the public financial situation in some way, as our audit leaders appreciate it, they do. Why is the list of errors not specific? The congressman has just said that this is also difficult to read. There were 200-300 pages of material, and even the closing account was 1,200 pages in my first years, even when I was president, even before that much, well, it was really hard to read, I, as a former Member, could say that. I've had a lot to struggle with, and I'm doing what I can to get the Court of Auditors to try to compress it, to focus on what it has to say. The errors on the basis of which we have the findings are usually identified in the detailed or annex annexes, so it can be traced back. The fact that the number of errors is not described at the level of each transaction, because it cannot be compressed then, but what is the error, which section of the legislation is the infringement, is presented by the Court of Auditors. Several Members raised the issues, raised several criminal issues or criminal suspects. I would like to state that the SAO is not a court-type Court, so it is not based on the model of the Romanian, French, Spanish, Italian, and the other SAIs, but on the model of the official-type SAIs, i.e. the model of the Dutch, English, Scandinavian, Austrian, Polish, Slovak, and the other SAIs. Accordingly, they did not put it within the framework of the administrative procedure, so we are not subject to the tax procedure or to the rules of the administrative procedure, which explains that it is not my job to explain it, but thirty years ago that the findings of the SAO were decided as a third branch of power to act. So it doesn't belong to the executive authority, because it can be challenged by its decisions, those decisions can be challenged by court. There's only one case here that seems to be sensitive to the parties, that's the issue of forbidden support. As long as the GRECO report didn't really push it, or Parliament didn't respond to it, this concept existed anyway, even before 11 or 10, only then the Parliament began to expand its coverage of media and communication, and then at the end of all services, that it couldn't receive support from a legal body, so it couldn't receive a free service from a consulting company. Unfortunately, I have to say that because of the lack of knowledge of their economic documents, they will never be evaluated, although this is required by law, and instead the SAO must carry out an assessment of these subsidies. The law didn't give you any restraint, it created a difficult situation. We asked for some regulation, it didn't happen, so obviously for us, for the auditors, we had to create the conditions for evaluation. [[18.40]] Now, the situation is what the Constitutional Court said, so I can't do any more. I don't think it's my job to deviate from that. It's a coherent system, I can tell you that, it has logic. There is a single law enforcement system in Hungary, it belongs to the jurisdiction of the judiciary, not to the powers of the SAO and the legislature to that effect. So whoever has a criminal complaint of abuse, as the congressman does, may be brought to the court with a police, prosecutor's or a complaint. In fact, the Court of Auditors has the role of a public financial court or public financial guard, so it has no effect in which this administrative procedure could be carried out with regard to parties. And by the way, I read the minutes and the justifications at the time, because I was also curious about what was behind it, the intention was specifically to separate it from the executive power, i.e. from the authority powers, and thus from the judicial path. It is based on the fact that the parties will set an example, they will conduct a law-abiding attitude on their own, and if they themselves or the SAO determine such a violation, they will specify in detail how much to pay and where to pay. I'm not telling you the rules right now, because you know them. The SAO doesn't decide what the consequences are, but determines the fact itself; the party itself can determine the fact, but doesn't do so. And then, in this case, you order the Court of Auditors to do so instead. So what I can tell you is that if the system touches this, the whole audit work will collapse in coherence; at least a court-type SAI or part of it should be set up, with appropriate degrees of justice. I don't know if there's such a constitutional concept in it. As far as I know, this has never been raised by the Hungarian professional and political sphere, that is all I can add. From among the comments made by the Members, I can say that, yes, I can sense that they want a law-abiding attitude. That's what I can offer you to support. So, as Vice-President said earlier at the committee meeting or now at the secretary-general's meeting, I can say from this point on that there are no exceptions to national institutions or national self-governments. Self-tests will continue to be provided, consultations will be held, good practices will be presented, or other agreed ways, education or other programmes can be carried out. A lot of people here are asking why we don't advise along the way. I can say the same thing about how objective the SAO's assessment would be, how similar it would be if some people asked for advice, some people didn't ask for advice, the SAO gave advice to the SAO, and then checked that they had implemented our own advice well. This is a conflict of interest, which would raise the problem of independence, because then the SAO would check its own advice. There are such organisations, I indicate, since today there are three lines of protection in the Hungarian control system; internal control is classically this. So what I can say is that in every organization we need a leading, supportive control mechanism, this is what the Government resolution on the internal control system is about, which was also referred to by Mr Sándor Hadházy, and we really appreciate that the government has also created a legislative background for a stronger integrity and benchmarking system for major companies, based on the so-called COSO model, which is an accepted, recommended integrity and management support tool in the European Union. Not all of the Western countries are doing this, but the 12 accession countries were obliged to do so. This is a rather foreign field I said to many leaders last time, how to build on the five pillars or now there are six pillars where they talk about controlling and controlling an organization. Since 2008, the Court of Auditors has been authorised by your predecessors in the integrity culture to present and promote this. That is why we have been given parliamentary decisions to support ethical leadership training, to provide surveys and to monitor them. So I believe that significant progress has been made. Of course, the training and transformation of the management of a whole country, the management and economic management of the public money spender, did not succeed completely after 2004. However, I have examined that in university education, for example, this exists, I must say, modestly. So the future leaders of today's youth, a medical, a pedagogical, an engineering or any economic field in law, come out of this integrity system only in a special way, not in general education. When you think about the amount of money, about 16,000 are the organizations in Hungary that spend public money and the SAO should check it. Compared to this, the congresswoman said that we could check 800 in 18 and previously 300-400 for years and decades. Now we're talking about 1300 last year, more than that, and now we're up to 3-4 grand. We are now working on this, in addition to the fact that there is a virus situation; in addition to the problem of providing data, it is necessary to provide the data immediately. So imagine that there is an organization that is really challenging to provide data, which has been said here. On the other hand, there is a legitimate need to be checked, and not only by the SAO, but obviously by doing the day's work, they still have to maintain the organization well, operate properly and the rest. So it's not just about regularity. And I do like the question of economies of scale here, and I have also said this several times. There are very few countries where in a country of this size there are 16,000 such institutions, spending places, or 3,200 municipalities, I might add. I don't object to this being a lot or a little, that's factual. They have to follow the same rules. That's up to you, and we've been signaling that. I have also said that we should consider doing something with the sizes, that either the rules should be differentiated if this is included in European legislation and within the Hungarian constitutional framework, or if there is less, which should actually be accounted for, whichever should draw up a report. Something has to be done, because apparently that mass of professional knowledge is not distributed in proportion to the organisations, so that I can put it mildly. So, when the 3200 municipalities are going through their regulations at the same time, the 16 basic documents, I can say in advance that they are three hundred... and I will not tell you any more, because we have not finished the evaluation, it has existed for thirty years, but it is not one, so understand this. Obviously, we're trying to give them advisory functions here, but we're going to tell you how much they don't have or didn't give us, which I don't know if they have or don't have, they didn't tell us, but we're going to try to get them to replace them so that they can replace them with the current date, but not backwards, because they're forgery. That's what we're trying to talk everyone out of operating with, because they're fooling you, because our findings are based on incorrect documents, not real documents. So I understand that it would be good, on the one hand, if there were no burden, on the other, but it would be good to be accountable. And I want to tell you about the decision of the Economic Committee in any way. It is very important to have a performance requirement. I therefore consider it extremely important to answer the Commission's question, and also to raise the question of Mr Lóránt Keresztes, that there is still a spare to increase performance, to increase efficiency, to increase economic efficiency. [[18.50]] That you are free, and I now say to the minority advocate, that you can expect it to be more efficient, more economies of scale, that's your job, so don't ask me for advice. I just wanted to tell you the fact. I can see that you must also compromise with your own background, with your own understanding, because there are many different aspects in life. I have received several comments, as I did last year, and I thank you for what we should check. I want to go to the Tao, because that is clearly a question on which I have been approached by several people. The SAO is the third line of defense, but it doesn't hurt to know that there must be two lines of defense before it, so things have to happen before the SAO goes there, because that's the order of the world. So first, whoever is responsible for it must have the right control so that he is not deceived. After that, there's usually a government check, a government office was specifically designated at the cultural lake. With regard to sportstao, I do not know exactly who, but there is also a level of government that needs to be checked. In fact, we were able to carry out the inspection at the cultural lake because it was finished. We looked at it, and based on the experience of our colleagues, it was also my own conclusion, with which the SAO agreed that it was right that it was terminated. This applies to the cultural lake. Clearly, in sports matters, it has a different logic, because there it is linked to investments, and there it is linked to processes. We haven't examined this yet, because they haven't finished. As many people have said, there are Newpesten, and I don't know where, and in many other places, there are hundreds, as I understand it, in the country where they didn't finish. Now, you can't check that, it's not the SAO's competence. On the one hand, it is extremely complicated and on the other hand it has a line of defence in Hungary. I can say the same with regard to Paks: everything in the context of the European Union is more controlled by Europeans than we are. The investment in Paks has been checked for 12 months by professionals better prepared than those in Hungary, who have seen many nuclear power plants investments. We obviously feel, as in the case of the other Belgrade-Budapest, it is also a very big investment to deal with it. That's why the SAO did an investment management support self-test, analysis, and we started checking some of these projects at the stage of preparation. This is a new type of, so to speak, current-time check. Obviously, this may be justified in some significant investments. So, in principle, our asset system is starting to build on the fact that, in this type of control, which you have raised here, we can look at high-value current investments. Although it's part of it, some of us will be happy about it, some of us will not be happy about it. I do not believe that this will necessarily ensure success here in Parliament in the short term for the SAO. But we are sensing this, so thank you for your comments, and we will consider it. It was also a sector outside of public finances. They raised the question of foundations, associations, and so forth. This was an earlier, very partial area. The SAO has done many of these in recent years, and this year we have started to control hundreds of such foundations, associations and nonprofits, or we are continuing. During the period of the virus, we have a little suspension of social care institutions, but in fact there are inspections, as we can see that it is a critical area. There are hundreds of them in Hungary. We sense that the rule of their accountability is one of the coolest in Hungary today. It's a legislative issue. We're gonna bring it up, by the way. We're going to bring it up with the chambers, the advocacy organizations, it's in the report. I didn't comment on it orally, but you can read it in the report. It should therefore be considered that the rules should be formulated in a more accountable manner for accountability. What I can tell you is that, if you intend to do so, our analysis of the Foundation provides a specific basis for such an amendment or submission. Indebtedness of the municipalities. I'm glad to see that Jobbik has more than enough to check. I've been listening to it for ten years. It is true that the former vice president, who became a trade unionist, became a member of the SAO and a party member, sat in their ranks, but he taught us how to solve this. For 20 years, no one could solve this. It wasn't easy. It took digitization and a lot of other things, colleagues. Maybe this year we can get there, as I said, that we can control every local government in a year. The organization simply wasn't physically capable of this. But there's something important I need to fix here. You and Parliament have decided that the audit of the municipalities is not carried out by the Court of Auditors, but by the Treasury. This legislation was introduced three or four years ago, perhaps in 2015. So at present, the audit of the municipal system is not the task of the Court of Auditors. I told you that every year in my answer, but that doesn't mean I'm counted every year. However, we have checked not only the municipalities but hundreds of their companies in recent years. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. So what I can say is that we are sensing the exposure of local governments, we will continue to monitor them in the future, so we can agree on that. I only have one comment on Open Budget Survey for László Varju. The SAO has provided far above average performance either in the previous or in the current assessment of the country, indeed, according to this survey [[The president's ringing again.]] Although there was only one organization that was worth looking at, it did the evaluation. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-02-226	Thank you.
u2020-07-02-227	I'm sorry if I couldn't cover all your questions, but your suggestions were extremely complex. Thank you for your contribution, and you've drawn attention. In the future, we will try to do this with consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-07-02-228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the other author, Sándor Hadházy, if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 next week. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, right-hander, to speak after the agenda: "How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-229	Mr President, Dear House, It is not the first time in the Hungarian Parliament that we are talking about the housing cataclysm, the huge problem that, in the case of total social groups, as well as our example, Hungarian young people are simply left out of government calculations. We also see that if we look at the period since 2010, according to statistics, according to the data of the sublet ads sent since 2011, the rents increased by almost 90 percent in more than eight years, while the net incomes increased by 130 percent in Budapest, while they increased by 40 percent in total. So we have a city in Hungary where rents have increased three times as much as can be seen in terms of the rise in earnings. The statistics on rents are relatively accurate, although this can obviously be distorted by uncontractual housing expenditure and cases where there is no specific paper on this transaction or on this continuous relationship. At the same time, wage statistics distort at least. On the one hand, because it doesn't measure some of the very low earners. Typically, a very wide range of companies with fewer than five employees and micro-enterprises are excluded from income statistics. [[19.00]] Thus, if we were to weigh the average, market estimates suggest that the average wage would be 20-30 thousand forints lower per person, I would say once again, in case everyone was counted into this. But you can see that scissors are unbelievably open, and the rise in already humiliatingly low-base actions cannot keep up with the rise in rent. We also have to face the fact that there is an amazing supply shortage in the rental and housing markets. Not only do they sell very few newly built properties, but also, given the very few number of properties that can be removed. This leads to an amazing price increase, and this system must be weighted by the fact that more than 500,000 people between 19 and 25 and more than 130,000 people between 31 and 35 still live with their parents, because they have basically no chance of starting a single life without resources and resources. We are not saying that many, more than 600,000 people would immediately separate and move, but we are saying that a hundred thousand of them are in the position of starting their own life, starting a family, having children's goals, but, in the absence of space, they are not yet able to meet these goals. If we look at these young people, but they are not the only ones, of course, how they are able to achieve these goals, then we see that if only HUF 50 to 100 thousand of the average salary is put aside per month, and this is a huge word from an average salary, they still have to save only 6 to 12 years for a part of a bank loan, and this is where the amazing burden of a housing loan is added in two decades' distance. So it is no exaggeration to say that if anyone needs help in Hungary, it is this social group. However, we are amazed to see that their typical problem, their life situation, has simply been left out of budget planning, because they are the ones who typically do not appear as a CSOK applicant, or if they appear and somehow collect their own share without the state aid for housing purposes, the commercial banks that pay them are often quite simply driven away and thrown away because of a lack of adequate level of income. Another important amendment would be not to call this a donation, either in the family support system, because taxpayers are adding up, but we would not make the money transferred available to young people and Hungarian family members depending on the convenience of the financial institutions, but these would certainly be subjective. This would be a very important amendment, the details of which I feel we need to have serious debates in this House. However, it is quite certain that it cannot be accepted that since 2010 this government has continued to give up the Hungarian future and to give up not only complete social groups, but also those who are forced to find their calculations abroad, because it is not certain that they will all be able to come home or come home from abroad in appropriate and ideal circumstances. Obviously, a cementation there is much more difficult to mobilize. Our goal, however, is for everyone to thrive in their homeland, to live here in Csonka-Hungary or to live beyond our current borders, to ensure equal opportunities for all in the Carpathian Basin. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-07-02-230	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Congressman Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-02-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, In the last few weeks, there's been something I don't understand here in the House of Parliament. I was preparing for the first debate of my life, because Fidesz presented a bill that would have served animal protection by tightening up pyrotechnic articles. I did, because it's something that's a matter of my heart, a sacred cause for me. We also prepared Mr Z. Carpathian with my fellow Member, Dániel, among other things, but by the time we reached the beginning of the expected debate, this subject was removed five minutes before the agenda. We were very sad, because we are going for summer vacation, and Members leave the Parliament building without doing anything to protect the animals again. Let me tell you two brutal stories these days, there's no other word. One of them is the Bear Home in Veresegyháza, which I read about today. There it is suspected that it is not good, and in fact, they alone hold wild animals, bears, lions, under critical conditions, so that they can go out into the audience. There was also a case of a lion walking among visitors to the zoo, suspected of drinking wild gamekeepers, zookeepers picking on lions, causing accidents, and in suspicious circumstances, large bears disappeared and died. That's where the investigation is, I believe. But you don't have to go to Veresegyház. In March, an investigation was launched against a couple. Then the investigation started, 108 dogs were seized from the couple's properties and taken away by various animal welfare organizations; 108 dogs, therefore suspected of breeding. I would very much like to say that they are propagating, but unfortunately, Hungarian law and the Hungarian law do not know this concept, so the investigation usually begins on the charge of animal cruelty against such people. The investigation has begun, but these individuals have not been arrested, despite the fact that the animal has been kept under unworthy conditions. We arrive at Nyírbogat, where the same two persons continued their deeds, continuing to breed. Now 58 dogs were seized, most of which were dachshunds, seven goats and five cats. Do you know why there are seven goats? Because the mama dogs were so tired, so exhausted, they were in such a physical state that they couldn't even produce milk. Why do people do all this? To sell as many dogs as possible abroad. These dogs are doomed both genetically and physically. We finally got to the point where the couple got busted for the second time, at least when they got arrested. So it also shows that there is a huge lack of constitutional or legal protection for animals. But fortunately, I have not only set a bad example, but I have also been able to set a good example. The centre of my constituency is Dunaújváros, where the new city leadership and I would like to pursue an animal-friendly policy. Thanks to this, we were able to provide a donation to the local government, where there is a 0-24 reception service in the form of a dog scanner, thus helping the lost animals to get home. But that's where I gave you a minimum animal welfare on four points, which I think we need to do right now. One is to make strict laws, to deter these laws. It's not a condition that the Balota landing monster, the woman who tied a dog after the trailer, only got two years suspended. It's not a condition. We agree with the tightening of the pyrotechnics. We drive the firecrackers out of the street, but we let the fans normally use them in the stadiums. Let us also do so because fans have done the most in recent years to protect animals. As a third point, we must finally introduce the concept of zoofilia to the Hungarian laws, which is also not known today by the Hungarian Criminal Code, and we must describe the concept of propagating material, and those who cause the most damage to livestock farming today must be struck with the utmost rigour. As a fourth point, thanks to the civil society work they do for animals, they should finally be granted constitutional protection to animals either in the form of an animal police force or in the form of an ombudsman for the protection of animals. I could tell you a long time, but unfortunately, my time is up. All I'm saying is that this way we can't go to summer with a calm conscience, because the rumors will spread, we're gonna get news of another scandal, and that until we do anything, it's up to us. Thank you for the floor. I'll stay in my precinct. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-07-02-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Anita Kőrösi Jobbikós, Madam President, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of the voice of the countryside. You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The voice of the countryside, I gave this title to my speech after today's agenda, and I did so because after the outbreak of the Crown Virus, it is finally possible to visit the countryside again, to talk to people, how they feel, how they survived the epidemic, the quarantine, how they can be helped to make the environment where they live even more livable, and how I can help them to do that. [[19.10]] I did this in my Facebook post when I wrote that, of course, as a national representative, I serve the Hungarian nation, but my heart draws me home to the Somogy 4 constituency, the centre of which is Siófok, and there are 71 settlements in this constituency. I will try to visit as many settlements as possible on this country's journey and bring those problems to the House in the autumn session, in which I will trust that my fellow members of the Government will be partners, and we will be able to resolve these problems as soon as possible. I think that not only there in Somogy County, but also in many parts of the country, there is a problem with the road situation, the infrastructure situation for which there is insufficient money. Even though the government says that they also form a separate road renovation basis within the, in the framework of the Hungarian village programme, it is still not enough. There are a lot of road conditions, which, if we go into a settlement and imagine a mother sitting on a bus, she may feel very, very bad when, say, she has to go home from the doctor, so it seems that there is a lot to do on this one. Another such area, which is quite amazing, which dominates especially smaller settlements, is that there is still a place where there is no reception for phone calls, or internet access is breaking up and a service provider is not available. So it's the 21st. To get to this point in the first century that these are fundamental, digital, and put in parentheses that the country has now studied in digital education for several months, so this is a problem that needs to be resolved very, very urgently. And what I have also seen in the countryside is that in several settlements, especially on the small ones, shops have closed or, even if they are open, there are terrifying prices. And if we add that there was a 2.8 percent increase in pension, that's what inflation we know, because we've been listening to in this House a lot; that's so little that it really covers this increase in pension, because the inflation monitor, it's just this inflationary basket that's being compiled to include the price of the new car, and durable usage items that you can't buy every five years or even every ten years. Yeah, only when we go to the store and look at the fruit and vegetables or the price of the meat, which didn't in one case rise by 30 percent, they became much, much more expensive in small settlements. And if it's shops, it's important to mention the problem of the mobile store network that in many settlements, it's the only way for people living there to do their daily shopping. Well, let's not talk about the prices that people meet over there. My fellow Member has just spoken on a very, very important subject, and this is animal protection. And most of all, it affected pet animals. I, on the other hand, have been to the village of Szakály in Tolna County, where we met a problem where there is a pig colony in the middle of the settlement, and there are flies, and there is a smell that is quite simply unbearable. The authorities were outside, but nothing's happening. And how do I relate to my fellow Members, Gergely Kálló? Unfortunately, what happened there was two pugs of dogs the flies ratted on practically have to say that and two dogs died. When we talk about animal protection, it is very important to live with farm animals, to keep farm animals in conditions that can help people, and to highlight very much the fact that local governments have been deprived of the right to regulate their livestock farming on the ground, so absurdum may be used to breed pigs or sheep in Siófok's resort. There is therefore a need for important legislation in the field of animal protection, and I agree with the need to complement the fact that farming also has tasks to be solved. I will continue to travel the countryside and country travel in the summer, and I hope that in the autumn session we will have more problems here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] bring it to the House, which will find a solution here. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience.
u2020-07-02-234	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction: You have the floor.
u2020-07-02-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, I am going to talk again about my home, Pécs, and unfortunately I have to report on a shocking political decision that has caused enormous damage to the city of Pécs. We know that for next year's budget, opposition parties, including the LMP faction, have tabled a lot of amendments, and I myself have submitted numerous proposals to the Parliament that would improve the situation of Baranya County and Pécs. One of the important measures was an important proposal that would have provided a significant source for the city of Pécs to replace the slowly ageing and poor state of the Community transport fleet. This is a very, very urgent, important task for Pécs. Unfortunately, the representatives of the pro-government factions, Fidesz and KDNP have made this impossible, they have taken this amount from Pécs, and it is shocking to me that the representatives of Baranya County Fidesz and KDNP voted in this way, and Péter Hoppál, one of the elected parliamentary representatives of Pécs, said no to this, deprived Pécs of this significant development resource. And we know that there are huge problems in Pécs and we can now say that there are decades of problems affecting public transport. Even during the Balliberal period of MSZP-SZDSZ, there was an outrageous, corruption-suspected bus outsourcing scandal, which has never been known to its culprits. So to say, once again, the janitor was the culprit, there are various legal procedures going on, but the names of the politician criminals, the real culprits, the decision makers have not been recognized. It is clear that Fidesz has promised accountability in Pécs, but this has not been achieved. Then their period came, when, in 2015, they bought a fleet of buses by purchasing a suspected corruption. I myself, after a long-term investigation, filed a complaint in 2017. The justice system is running slowly, but we have come to the point that this June, the Baranya County Attorney's Office announced that a particularly high level of economic fraud has been prosecuted or charged with money laundering. So there was a reasonable suspicion, according to the D.A.'s office. Here, during the Fidesz period, a corrupt, outrageous acquisition took place. We can also say that in this way they practically bought a second-hand bus fleet from the Netherlands in 2015. This fleet has grown old in the last five years. The city now seems to have an ageing, bad and environmentally destructive transport fleet, but next to it, the city is indebted to and affected by such serious corruption, which appeared in the Fidesz period as in the previous balliberal period. This situation is complicated by the recent government decision or parliamentary decision, which is thanks to Fidesz once again to all the municipalities, that the state has withdrawn from the financing of local public transport, so that the cities have to solve this extremely important task on their own. It is clear what the consequences will be. Almost every city in the country will have lower levels of public transport. This health risk, environmental destruction, increased accident risk, will go hand in hand with everything, this is a seriously flawed policy on the part of the current government. It is quite clear that such an outrageous decision can only be taken jointly, and I have already reported in recent years that local Fidesz and KDNP government representatives have already figured this out and are already able to vote with local politicians working for Pécs. Unfortunately, the Members of Parliament have not yet reached this point. Peter Hoppál continues to betray Pécs. He forgot that he did not receive his mandate from Viktor Orbán, not from Fidesz, but from the people of Pécs, and he regularly attends the people of Pécs. This is an unforgivable sin, because these corruption scandals that took place in Pécs during the various regimes are not the people of Pécs who should be punished. Together, we must do everything we can to ensure that these resources are provided and that Pécs can have a healthy, well-functioning Community transport system. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-02-236	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. Good evening, good night. Meeting day's closed.
