u2022-07-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 1st day of the 5th extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated an extraordinary meeting to be held on 18-19 July 2022. The letter and its attachment were found on the website. Dear Parliament, I declare that the decision on certain house rules 3. § 2 and Art. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Section 3, the Jobbik Group elected Mr László György Lukács as Head of the Group from 15 July 2022. I thank Mr. Peter James for his work so far. Allow me to wish Mr László György Lukács effective work and good luck on behalf of the Parliament and myself. Dear Parliament, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of current affairs.
u2022-07-18-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The everyday experience in this country in recent weeks and days is that the Government of Hungary is touching in the swamp of half-truths and lies. When the representatives of the Hungarian government do everything to ensure that wages do not increase within public finances, for example, the wages of civil servants should not rise by accident, the wages of teachers should not rise by accident to the extent necessary, while Minister Martin Nagy believes that it is very important for him to display publicity in one of the domestic newspapers, how wrong the direction is in relation to wage increases reaching or exceeding inflation, while at the same time calling the government plowing the kata in line with economic policy. It eliminates the smallest entrepreneurship that has the weakest ability to assert interest. Well, the kata's mistakes could have been corrected, so I just wanted to say this. If there were concerns about the pension system, it would have been possible to add a pension contribution-type contribution, but if the concern about budget revenue was high in the government, it would have been possible to increase the rate of tax. In this case, the government would have received additional revenue sooner than in this scheme, which you have chosen, but if it were indeed intended to counter the potentially disguised employment relationship, then, for example, they could have tightened the conditions for using the kata. But you have not dealt with any of them, but have chosen a solution which, I think, is quite desperate, since changing tax legislation to a less favourable one in the course of the year is clearly against the definition of the rule of law, but you have chosen this path, and have also made it impossible for nearly half a million families, these families' entrepreneurs, to make a sure living. Of course, and here comes the interesting contrast, and I would like to draw everyone's attention to this, while making money for the generous support of SMEs in the Republic of Bosnian Serbia, about HUF 14 billion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Dear members of the Government, Why couldn't this money be used to help domestic SMEs? Because that's not the point. They're practically trying to extract money from our country in order to fight inflation, and you're creating a very desperate situation. Unfortunately, a series of half-truths and lies does not end here, because we see that they have announced that, in view of the energy crisis, restrictions are being introduced on the sale of gas and electricity, with which there are two problems. On the one hand, it was published yesterday on the website, nova.rs, that Sinisa Mali, the Serbian finance minister, thanked Hungary for its assistance, and I quote: thanks to our Hungarian friends, we managed to provide an additional 500 million cubic meters of gas, which we will store in two warehouses in Hungary, and we purchased from their two companies, one of which is MET and the other is MVM Zrt., which is identical to EPS in Hungary. Therefore, we are buying 250-250 million cubic metres of gas from each of them and we are already paying an advance of some 250 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If it's such a big problem, as you say, and I believe you on this issue, then why sell the country's strategic reserves? It is also a big question that you have examined how much the market price you have announced is similar to the real market price. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-07-18-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Fürjes responds on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In his speech, he was pushing or talking about issues related to the reduction of the rent, the reduction of the rent and the kata. In order to give you a meaningful answer, we first need to clarify the initial situation, the facts. The most important fact is that the cause of today's economic challenges is a circumstance outside of us, independent of us, war. There's war inflation, a war energy crisis, and it could soon be a war recession, a war economic downturn. If we are not in our senses, there will be war food shortages, war unemployment, war poverty and, as a result, the era of war political crises in Europe. [[Bence of Turdai: Fidesz of War!]] You may not see it, but these are dangerous times. Moreover, the failed EU sanctions policy in Brussels will only add to the problem, and unfortunately you will never speak of it. [[13.10]] It is also possible to impose sanctions against illegal armed aggression only under two conditions, or it is sensible to impose sanctions. On the one hand, sanctions should have the intended effect and could not cause more damage to the sanctioner than to the sanctioned operators. Compared to this, the sanctions in Brussels would be good for them to be aware of this, and that is something they would not hold back Putin from the war. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Prime Minister voted for it!]] they do not stop aggression, but they do more damage to Europe than they do to Hungary. [[András Imre Jámbor: You voted for it!]] Then the initial situation to be clarified is part of your attitude. You're pretending to be desperate to protect something that you've been opposed to for years. What you do is called hypocrisy. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Exactly! That's what you are!]] You're hypocrites and Pharisees, because you're on government. [[Moray and interruptions from the opposition ranks.]] All they ever did was raise taxes. [[Moraj from the opposition parties.]] I have listened to you, Congressman. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We're listening too!]] Congressman Vojvodina, you're going to be there, don't worry. [[Zoltán Vajda: Whoa! A statement from opposition parties: Is this a threat?]] So you've always raised taxes on government. For the current budget, the left-wing opposition submitted a tax increase package of HUF 3200 billion. In the government, the most expensive European overhead costs were thrown into the Hungarians' necks, and in opposition they did not vote for the reduction of the rent, they called it stupid, just as they did not vote for the kata. Dear Member, what is this if it is not hypocrisy and Pharisee conduct? The only thing you really want is a mess. And here's to what you said in secret at the end of the week, but you've been caught, Congressman Vajda. He said they wanted nothing more than apologies, Mr. President, I can't quote you literally like this, raping people's souls. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] And you know very well that you have used a much more harsh and humiliating term, especially for left-wing voters. [[Eszter Debate: Shame! Shame on you!]] Zoltán Vajda, representing the whole left, has shown how cynically you, the left, stand with people, with the challenges facing people and families. [[Szabolcs Szabó: You do it!]] What happened at the end of the week? Zoltán Vajda, on the left, at a demonstration, pretended to be concerned about the katat, in a violent speech against the government, sprinkled salt into the wounds of the people because there was no doubt [[Interventions from opposition parties. Zoltán Vajda: Theoretically political! Eszter Vitalos: Ask for a word.]] there is no doubt that the reduction of the rent and the changes in the rules of the kata are difficult for many and it is important to understand and take into account their concerns [[Antal Csárdi: Answer only to me and not to him!]] And then you came down from the stage, and when you thought that no one would see it anymore, the cameras wouldn't take it, then you cynically, grinningly whispered to Péter Márki-Zay literally I couldn't quote again, "I'm sorry, I was long, I was good, but... I told them their souls, didn't I?" I raped their souls. You know exactly what he said. No one on the left condemns Vajda's cynicism. No wonder your politics are cynicism incarnate. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right!]] You're happy if it gets worse. If worse, the better, they actually want to take advantage of people's difficulties to reduce government support. They want to fight people's difficulties. For you, the people are just instruments, and most importantly, the left-wing voters that are much more worthy of this have been insulted to the blood of a Member. Shame on you! Apologize to the people. As long as this does not happen, it is difficult to have a dialogue with you about living difficulties. [[Bence of Turdai: Will the people continue to be punished? Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Jámbor Jámbor, Member of the Dialogue Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-5	Thank you for the floor. Just before I start, I'd like to respond a little bit to the previous rejoinder. It's very amusing for me that after 2006, you say that when someone stands up to restrictions and political lies, it exploits the people, because that's what you did back then. By the way, I think you were right to be outraged at the time, and I think the outrage is justified right now. But turning to the speech before the agenda, my fellow Members, the solution to this economic crisis is not to shock demonstrators on the Margaret Bridge. Yeah, it's an economic crisis, but it didn't start with the war, and it's not gonna end with it. The question is why we are the only ones affected by this economic crisis in the region by introducing brutal austerity measures overnight in the middle of summer. The reason we're having a rough time with this crisis is because you, let's just say, messed it up, not a little bit, a lot. They could have reduced Russian energy dependence. This was promised, but instead, since 2010, they have increased what the whole country is now paying for. You have devalued the forint, which now brutally increases inflation and energy prices. And the profits that these big companies have made over the last few years are now being paid by the people. At Covid's time, you didn't support businesses, the people. Instead, this spring, they took out loans for non-profit-making election distribution in the economy and spent huge amounts of money, punching a huge hole in the budget. You are fighting a freedom fight with the EU to protect your corruption, not the protection of Hungarian workers, and therefore the EU funds that would be vital for the Hungarian economy will not come. And they lied about it all the time in the campaign, and they're lying right now. They told me there wouldn't be any restrictions. They lied to me about keeping the cat. They lied about keeping the rent down. Now, during a nice summer week, the Hungarian population was panicked because there should be no misunderstanding, not because thousands of people protest every day in Budapest and in the streets of rural cities because they have nothing better to do, but against your spoiled policy and the resulting restrictions. You said the catalog would stay, and then a hundred days later, in the middle of the summer, it was abolished in one day, so that hundreds of thousands of people would leave 50 days after that, so that they would have to rearrange their lives. [[Eszter Vítalos: No one has erased it! You're lying again!]] This may not be a big deal for Zsolt Semjén; it is not a big deal for taxation, as he said in Parliament, but, yes, it is a question for millions, and it is not a question of what animal's carcass should be hauled by helicopter after a hunt. On the streets of Budapest and the countryside you can not only meet the intellectuals, they don't go to the streets immediately in their rage, but also the envelopes, bus drivers, policemen, or nurses who have kept their jobs from second company. There's no bus rides, no paid protesters, no months of planned mobilization, but people who are outraged by your lies are pouring into the streets day by day. They said in the campaign, there's gonna be a reduction in the rent, and a hundred days after the election, they're gonna throw in an unthinkable and unthinkable plan that's gonna drive the country into panic. People cancel their vacations to save money or rush the firewoods to shop for the winter, and you can't tell what system you're going to introduce 13 days before the introduction of the new system. Just 60 days ago, I have been talking about the unsustainable economic policy that you are trying to compete with low corporate taxes and low salaries, and this is putting the country in a worse position from crisis to crisis. I didn't think very much that 60 days later, Mr Orbán confirms this when he talks about the need to reduce the rent due to low salaries, although in a completely absurd way, after you have abolished the cost reduction so far. Then I was also talking about paying the rich. But I would like to point out to my fellow Members that I do not mean the middle class by the rich, which you are killing as a cold-blooded killer. They want to collect extra taxes from the ditches, but they don't tax casinos, Butcher, Garancsi, Tiborcz, your oligarchs? Cats pay taxes, but football players get a $500 million payout tax? Isn't it brazen to talk about tax evasion when your budget for this year says that you're going to collect 5.7 percent of the 9 percent corporate tax on large companies and only 5.4 percent of next year's budget is planned? ! And if they have a problem with sheltered employment, why not eliminate it, why the kata? Last week in the Committee on Budgets, you gave more than 110 billion extra for propaganda, top sports, your own civilians, secret services. Shouldn't this money be used to protect more families in the energy crisis with a premium? [[13.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let the rich pay! Let's get the global minimum tax. Raise corporate taxes on big companies and collect them. Let László Szijj's yacht, on which Péter Szijjártó vacations, or the private plane he went to Orbán to play football! Let's do the billionaire tax and the oligarch tax. For once, make the decision not to look someone in the eye honestly at the billionaire ball and the Adriatic yacht, but at the Pest and Country Flash to protesters. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Before the meeting, I received a petition from protestors who are here. I'd like to give this to you. [[The president's ringing again.]] We also have some copies for Viktor Orbán tomorrow. [[Applause in the benches of Dialogue, MSZP, LMP, Momentum and DK. András Jámbor hands the petition to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.]]
u2022-07-18-6	Congressman, your time is up, and please put your tables away. Please take your seat, Congressman, and please do not disturb the meeting. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, For a long time, they are trying to interpret the current situation as if only Hungary were facing economic difficulties, while it is quite clear that the current economic difficulties are caused by war, by the hand-held increase in energy prices and by the extremely wrong Brussels sanctions policy. If you don't believe that, then allow me to mention a few facts. Some countries have more than 20 percent inflation. The increase in energy prices is more than 40 per cent in Europe. Only this year, gas suppliers in Germany have raised their prices by 75% and are openly talking about supply difficulties in the fall, which could also result in additional price increases being issued to a German family for a month. This is not Hungary, not Eastern Europe, not Central Europe, but Germany. At the same time, it is embarrassingly strange that left-wing parties are rising to speak about taxes, even because if we look at their budget amendments submitted in recent weeks, we can see that they have submitted tax increases of HUF 3240 billion. They want a tax increase. It's an abstract number, so it's worth checking out exactly what taxes they'd raise. There is a consensus on the left that we need to raise the personal income tax rates, and there is only a debate between you about how big it is. They're talking 25, 30 and 40 percent keys. For the record, this tax rate is now 40 percent. [[Sic!]] They also seem to agree that corporate tax should be increased, not for certain businesses, but in general. Based on a proposal made in a previous campaign, this corporate tax increase would be 19 percent. In some cases, LMP would increase this tax to 25 percent. Let's note here, for the record, instead of the current 9 percent. Each enterprise can calculate the difference. The idea of real estate tax also appears over and over again as a kind of lair. When the DKs made a concrete proposal, they also said that there would be a limit of 50 million real estate and that it would amount to 0.5 percent of the value of the property. Everyone can figure out how much extra expenses that would cost. There is also a suggestion in the left-wing tax lifting bag, because Gergely Christmas would also bring back the straight line inheritance tax, which would put many people in a position where they can't keep their own property. And we could continue the line. They want a traffic charge, raise a carbon tax, which, according to their latest modifications, would amount to 200 billion forints. So the limit is the capacity of the starry sky and the Hungarians. So I suggest that both ourselves and the Hungarian public should be very careful to accept and accept any proposal for a tax increase from the left-wing masters of the tax increase. On the subject of cadaver taxation, I would also like to emphasise here that such a reduced tax was not under left-wing governance. It was introduced by the current governing parties, and when it was introduced by the government and voted for by Parliament, left-wing parties did not vote for it. During last week's debate, it was explained by the salad law. I am also glad that Congressman Tordai lived because he also referred to last week as a salad law and was therefore not voted for. Mr Pious, if I recall correctly, at the demonstration you told the people there that you did not vote for the left because it was a salad law. What they said was a lie because the Parliament voted on these taxes as a separate law. The proposal was called "the specific tax on small-scale companies and small-scale taxes." That's how they rejected it. I ask you, if you're going to lie to us here in Parliament, in this House, at least don't do this to your own supporters. [[Bence of Turda: We did not vote against it!]] Not in the matter of the bill, not in the matter of the bills, not in any other matter. As regards the expression of opinion in Hungary: Hungary is a free country, everyone can express their opinion, and I personally and personally want to hear all opinions. But we would like to draw attention to one important thing: no one has to fear now, in 2022, that if they give their opinion, they will shoot out their eyes, as they did in 2006. That's a big difference. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr László Toroczkai, on behalf of the Group of the Mi Hazank Group, asked for a pre-scheduled speech:, How many more elements of the austerity package will there be? It's an address. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think you are now ashamed of the ad hoc governance that is about to unfold. Perhaps the sign of this is that on the part of the governing parties, I see no one in the benches of KDNP or Fidesz. I mean, it's really embarrassing what you guys are doing. They announce amazing austerity measures on which it is clear to the contrary that they are not thought-out or developed. And when they see that the people are upset, they are rightfully, then they try to get out of the situation that you have actually created. In recent years, the Hungarian Movement has been constantly saying, even outside Parliament, that there will be huge problems and huge problems. On the one hand, there is a world political transformation, there is a World Economic Forum, the leader of which announced the Great Reset in 2020. We knew very well that someone would pay the price of the coronal virus, and then there was a war that overwhelmed even the lab virus, and you did nothing while we were ringing the alarm, and it seems as if you were trying to serve the interests of these economic circles. Before I speak of the cataclysms, I would like to point out in advance to Mr Secretary of State that I and the faction of the Hungarian Movement did not vote at the time when it was about the Kata. [[To Csaba Dömötör:]] He'll tell you when he answers. I'm leading this faction, I'm leading this party, and I can tell you for sure that I would have supported the kata back then. I would like to prepare you not to start by saying that the opposition did not support Kata at the time. So I would have supported it, and I would support it now that we do not spot you, say, with 400 thousand Hungarian employees when someone has to pay the price of the economic crisis. And what has left your mouth in connection with the reduction of the rent is that you are looking for words, because it is incomprehensible that when people are worried, they see the transformation of the world economy themselves, and there is a war going on next door, then you are acting like a psychic warfare against the Hungarian people. It is not possible to play with people that they announce all kinds of specifics, without any details, that the reduction of the rent is lost, for example, to the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who use electricity to heat. For example, in the countryside, people on farms cannot heat gas. You say that over 210 kilowatts per hour, everyone here is rich and consumes above average. In addition, anyone with a small garden vegetable or orchard, and perhaps it should be watered, because nothing will grow without water, certainly the average consumption you have calculated in a rural household will not come out. By the way, you probably don't get it, either, in your homes. I don't know who calculated these rates. But what's a much bigger question mark: we don't really understand how electricity itself, electricity, got into this package. After all, experts have already said that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant could provide cheap electricity to the entire Hungarian population. It would be nice for the government to respond to these expert statements. Because it also makes it seem that you are once again on the side of the global large corporations, the savage capitalists, and not on the side of the Hungarians, not the working Hungarian people, although they are the most important, that they can somehow survive the months ahead, the years ahead. [[13.30]] So I'm asking you to finally stop this ad hoc government, finally submit proposals of austerity that you'll at least consider, the details of which you've worked out, since as it turns out, you haven't been telling the truth in the election campaign. In English: you lied when you promised that you would keep the reduction and promised that you would not put the processes of the global economic crisis on the Hungarian population. I am pleased that I am now hearing back from the entire Balliberal opposition the programming points of the Hungarian Movement. After all, we were the ones who not only predicted the global economic crisis, which, by the way, served by the Balliberal parties here in Hungary, but we were the ones who demanded property taxes from the Hungarian oligarchs and we still demand that we be the ones who would tax global large companies, and we are the ones who are to help the Balliberal side, they have not taken one more point from our package of proposals, they are still helping to tax global tech companies, and then we can say that we are moving towards some consensus. This is what we expect of the government not to have Hungarian people pay the price of catastrophic governance and catastrophic global economic processes. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-18-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, As if you wanted the government to take further and more negative action. I have to reassure you, or if that's not comforting to you, that the government isn't thinking about it and that's not what you're thinking. There is a more important question that you raise, and it affects what you present here to Parliament, such as how long there will be war and when there will be peace. That's the most important question in the world. This can be mocked, this can be said or said, this determines the future of all of us, the whole of our Europe, Hungary and all of us who live in this country. Then it is also a big question, and it affects everything that the European Union has finally given up its sanctions policy, realizes that the sanctions they are trying to impose on Russia are not bad for Russia, but for its own people, its own countries, its own inhabitants, its own voters. A lot of people in Europe have now discovered this, and we need to read some news, some articles about the problems that have been caused in which country, and how governments making decisions have faced what this will mean in that country. I would particularly advise you to read what the German Government has discussed over the past week and what has been revealed to the public about what can be expected in Germany. You know what the most important question here is? That's gonna take power, that's gonna take oil, that's gonna suck. As a result, the most important issue is to remove production, remove product emissions, operate the economy. If the economy works because there is energy, then there is a job; but if there is no energy, then there will be no job. This is the biggest problem, and it will not result in any austerity measures, except in the world economy, events in the world, the consequences of war and war, the failed economic policy of the European Union and its sanctions policy. It is a very important question of how the government responds. The government can look at the budget, it can be read, even though you are attacking government measures, the cataclysm and attacking the changes in the cost reduction, its main objective is to protect families. [[There's noise and clarity in the opposition benches.]] We protect jobs, we protect the cost reduction that has been achieved, because this reduction will continue to protect families until the average consumption. It is very important to protect pensioners so that we can preserve the value of pensions against inflation. This was decided by the government in April, and is now fulfilled in July, as from 12 July, pensioners will receive a constantly 3.9 percent pension increase, going backwards from 1 January. It is a very important issue to protect the results of the home creation programme. In the home creation programme, Hungarian families and young Hungarians can continue their ideas, or whoever starts now has the source of the budget and has the opportunity. It is important to protect and maintain family policy measures, which will increase by HUF 450 billion next year compared to the previous year. Let health care work and education work, these are the most important issues. If there is a war in this country, it must also work in the economic recession, people must have jobs, and people must be able to work. These are the most important goals, not what you expect from the government, the austerity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-12	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the current issues. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-07-18-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is irresponsible, selfish and lying, the main criterion of Viktor Orbán's policy. You'll assist me with this irresponsible, selfish and lying. Everything Orbán and Fidesz are doing now is a public lie to their promises so far. They began to distribute irresponsiblely before the elections, and they lied all the time that it was sustainable. They knew precisely that the hundreds of billions taken by the oligarchs would be missing from the register, that the budget deficit and irresponsible spending of money would sink the forint, or that the evisceration of the municipalities would come back. Last October, Péter Szijjártó said, I quote: we created the possibility of keeping the price of gas from increasing for Hungarian consumers regardless of the price movements on the world market. Ten days ago, Viktor Orbán spoke about the fact that the reduction of the rent will definitely be protected from whom, from what, we now know, as well as the fact that they lied. They lied about stability, they lied about the overhead, they lied about the price of Russian energy, they lied about the emergency and almost everything. You have deceived your own constituents. They promised that there would be no tax increase now, with the removal of the catalog, a brutal tax increase would be made. They promised that they wouldn't touch the reduction of the rent now they're going to push millions into a livelihood crisis. Colleagues! Paks could power the whole country. Why do they want to give 12 forints of Paks electricity at 10-12 times the price? Why does Szilárd Németh, who is not here, threaten such things? What's the plan, what happens to people who won't be able to pay the rent? pensioners, minimum wage workers. Or is the plan ready for that? Have you established a network of Rogan buddies who profit from thousands of homes that have been auctioned, just like in vaccine procurements? Ladies and gentlemen, For years, we have said that the Orbán government's policy based on institutionalized corruption will lead us to a lack of access to EU funds. The Orbán clan has enriched by hundreds of billions, while the Union is punishing all Hungarians because of them. We demand that we join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and that the oligarchs pay back the stolen money. Don't hide with Putin's war. It wasn't the war that started the growth of Hungarian inflation, it was last summer as a European champion. It was not the war that started the increase in energy prices, as it started to grow intensely a year ago. It wasn't the war that broke the forint, it was Orbán and Matolcsy in the last 12 years. Ladies and gentlemen, Before they come up with another lie that we would welcome this situation, this difficult situation, I would like to make it clear that no, we are not happy at all, we are very angry at it, because the fault of Orbán and Fidesz is that Hungarian people are facing sufferings, deprivations, restrictions that have not been there since memory of man, and that is only Orbán, Fidesz and your responsibility. [[13.40]] It is pathetic, as the Prime Minister now calls for cooperation and assistance and understanding in a situation that he has partly created. Don't expect support from a prime minister who, in the crisis that he has caused, will raise his own and then his own government's million-dollar salary, rather than settle the wages of teachers, nurses and public service workers. Ladies and gentlemen, We Social Democrats want peace and security, legal certainty and livelihood security. The Orbán government must immediately end its war against the European Union. Comply with the claims of the rule of law and make available the resources that will be missing in the coming period. From these sources, immediately launch a home insulation program and reduce dependence on Russian energy sources. In order to ensure the safety of livelihoods, tax the minimum wage, reduce the tax burden on the smallest earnings, catch up on small pensions, settle salaries for public service workers, educators and health workers. You're gonna have to withdraw the change in the catalog. Don't touch the electricity costs. Help those who can't pay their rent. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK, Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-18-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Fürjes responds on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Member, It's kind of disappointing that you're forced to repeat yourself. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: There's nothing else you can say, that's the problem.]] But I'm trying to find grips. On the weekend there were elections; well, you collected some red cards from your own voters again, not much, only as many as you started. It's one thing for us to think about your text and politics. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] But their own voters are tired of this text, their own voters and their own politicians. I won't be able to quote it literally now, you come every week... we can be grateful because you're giving us ammunition, and it's no doubt the strongest one for your fellow faction was the humiliating speech of all the voters on the side of the street and on the left. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] But there's László Botka, socialist mayor of Szeged, who put it like that? That opposition parties are so boring that they don't care about themselves, their own voters, themselves. So, at the same time, of course, enough... [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You will experience this too!]] Congresswoman, we'll listen to you. So I understand that it's hard to face the truth, the truth hurts. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] , it hurts the electorate's decision, it hurts the decision they made this spring, four years before that, four years before that, the electoral decisions in left-wing citadels that they made this weekend, but perhaps instead of throwing their anger at us, face up to the will of the electorate, the opinion of the electorate and their own situation. Irresponsible... [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] I'll listen to you, Congressman, when you say something, if you'll allow me to give you my answer, I'll do it. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you don't think there's any freedom of speech, I'm gonna stop answering. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes. Deficit in the ranks of DK, Momentum and MSZP.]] Irresponsible, the faction leader said that politics is irresponsible, selfish, and lying. Again, it is very difficult to hear this from the mouth of a socialist politician, because your prime minister said that we lied in the morning, and at night, your policy was built and built on a lie. [[Eszter Vitalos: And ever since!]] So, compared to that, it's really... [[Zoltán Vajda: You don't say, you do!]] Well, let's see what the Socialist Party did. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] The left when he was steering! [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Let's go back to the Tartar walk!]] What have you done with the pensions? They took the 13th month pension and reduced pensions. What have you done with the workplaces? Unemployment has skyrocketed. What did you do with the rent? At the time of your governance, during the governance of the left, Hungary had to pay the most for gas and electricity in proportion to its income. [[Kálmán Olga intervenes.]] and taxes were only raised, raised and raised. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] But what are they doing in opposition? They don't support the Kata, because, as the Secretary of State quoted, you said no to the Kata as a separate bill, rejected it, didn't vote for the Kata. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Eva!]] And now this Pharisee attitude, this hypocrisy, is crying crocodile tears for it, and that is why voters are distributing the red card to themselves, not every week, only on the weekends when elections are held in Hungary. And what else were they doing in opposition? In the same way, they did not vote for the reduction of the rent, and now again, in a hypocritical and Pharisee way, they claim to be the top fighters in the reduction of the rent. And the most disappointing thing about this is, as I listen to you one by one, the speech of all your parties, and deny what Politico, the favorite European web portal on the Balliberal side, tells us about the German ministers, the spokespersons of the left-wing German government, the Brussels politicians, that the war is really the reason for everything, that the war is crucially standing, not only, but decisively and decisively, the war is in the wake of or behind the increase in energy prices, the war of which we cannot do anything about, and which, of course, Hungary cannot eliminate alone. We cannot understand each other until you come back to the ground of reality, face the opinions of Hungarian voters and your voters, and face the European situation. Don't listen to us, listen to their comrades in Berlin, listen to their comrades in Brussels and listen to the European left, much... although we hear a lot of things there, but even they make a much more sensible voice. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-16	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Endre Tóth, Member of the Momentum Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on the state of play of Hungarian education. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, If this government ever fell on Sigmund Freud's therapeutic couch, there would be some serious diagnosis. It turns out, for example, that you are screening, and you are projecting. Projection in psychology is a long-known phenomenon, when a person is unable to accept certain qualities, repressed desires, so he starts to blame others, blame others and hate others for what he really is. Well, you guys... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] For 12 years they have been projecting their own intentions and vices on their opponents, for 12 years they have not had an election programme, they have not put any vision before the voters, they are only demonizing the opposition. In 2010, they campaigned against corruption, and then they set up the most corrupt country in Europe, where all the prime minister's family members and friends are becoming billionaires, and theft and theft of public funds is such that it would be embarrassing in a Latin American banana republic. Later they turned George Soros into an archenemy, and accused the opposition that we would associate with them, while there was only one party in the National Assembly, which George Soros actually financed, that is you, the Fidesz. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The opposition was also accused of supporting illegal migration [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] While you brought all kinds of shady underworld figures into the country with your settlement bonds. Then, in April this year, accusations were raised to a new level, and there was a rumor everywhere that the opposition would raise taxes and abolish the reduction of the rent. Then it turned out that you really wanted these things, and you didn't have to, it was only three months, and you did. In one day, three quarters of Hungarian small entrepreneurs were simply cut out of the katák, which brutally increased taxes for 300,000 people and destroyed their business model so far. A lot of people don't even have to sign up anymore, they have to close the blinds. After they had finished with this, the next day they started cutting the bills and announced the partial abolition, in line with their most important election promises. Moreover, the rules are set in such a barbaric way that many of our small-income countrymen will also have to pay market prices. Retirementes living in poorly insulated houses, two children, people living in multigenerational households or watering the garden may be terrified of eight to ten-fold accounts. In the last few weeks, your own voters have been disappointed by you, who have believed those lying vows in the campaign that you will defend the reduction of the rent by following the policy of tax reduction. No, you don't! This country became a victim of political lies, said Viktor Orbán in 2006 and now, in 2022, he was the one who committed this political lie. [[13.50]] But there are areas where you have not even made false promises in the election campaign, so you are not interested in these areas, such as education. Even though there is a 15 grand shortage of teachers, you can't afford a substantial wage increase promise, because it's not a wage increase that will increase earnings by 9 percent in January, while prices will increase by 11 percent by June. And I would also like to inform you that you can be sure that the 10-10 percent increase announced for the next two years will actually not attract any young people into the field. But you don't want any more educators, you don't want any more substantial salary, you're going to close the high schools in small towns, which, I note, you were hysterically opposed before 2010. But the best part is what they do in negotiations with the European Commission. You are negotiating with the European Commission in order not to have to spend EU funds on a substantial teacher's wage increase and not to make salaries valuable. This is a betrayal of the future of the education sector and Hungarian students. And you are now able to say that Brussels is the reason why the teacher's wage increase is in jeopardy. It's a miracle the ceiling hasn't fallen on you yet. You're using the well-established projection, the lying accusations: you're pinning your own crimes on Brussels. But I have some bad news, my fellow pro-government Members, that it is not by chance that the saying is that a liar is caught before a lame dog is caught. The cataracts are falling from the eyes of more and more of our countrymen, and they see your lies. And these people will make sure that you never come to government again, because political lies cannot go without consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-18-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The last thing he said was that political lies don't go unpunished. You, who have said for years that you will never, ever, ever join forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány, will also risk your lives, that you will never join forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány, so you will sit together with Ferenc Gyurcsány in the opposition ranks of the Hungarian Parliament. This could be the result of your credibility. You were the new opposition, a new wave, the young people, the hope, who replaced Ferenc Gyurcsány first in opposition, then the Fidesz-KDNP on government, then it took a year and a half, and you joined Ferenc Gyurcsány. So if you'd fall on that couch, honourable Member, or Ferenc Gyurcsány, you'd have something to put out. Why don't you guys just look at yourselves? What happened here since the election? [[Noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We had to wait until Bence of Retvári to hear: Ferenc Gyurcsány.]] For Ferenc Gyurcsány, Péter Márki-Zay has become unnecessary and disturbing, he has eliminated him, he is not even sitting here in Parliament. He became disoriented or no use from András Fekete-Győr, first failed as a candidate for Prime Minister, then he was taken down as party leader and then he was taken down as a group leader. Then there was a line change here in the LMP, in the Dialogue, the old leaders went, the new leaders came. And finally, Péter Jakab sat up next to András Fekete-Győr, who first failed the presidential nomination, then the party presidency, and finally the faction leadership. Who's left alone? [[Interventions from the ranks of DK: Ferenc Gyurcsány. Defiance in DK's ranks.]] Who's in the same place as a year ago? [[Kálmán Olga: Ferenc Gyurcsány.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány. That's the straight line. That's the straight line, Congresswoman. [[Delight, applause from DK's ranks.]] Kálmán Olga said only Ferenc Gyurcsány will remain. Everyone went, everyone was wiped, only Ferenc Gyurcsány and his direct courtship [[Noise, clear from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] You, who, sometimes as government leaders, sometimes as independent journalists, served your interests, can stay. And speaking of psychosis, your other psychosis, which has come out now, honourable Member, is the constant need for foreign compliance, to protect the interests of Brussels, even now, in this speech, honourable Member, rather than to tell a fellow party who is a Hungarian MEP outside Brussels, that, come on, the funds for Hungary are not being drilled [[Kálmán Olga: Do you want the money or not?]] 'Cause it could be a cover for teachers' wages to grow to a greater extent. [[Kálmán Olga: Do you want it now or not?]] Because the Hungarian government has said that it wants to devote these resources to this, not to a small extent, not to a billionaire, not to a ten billionaire, but to a hundred billionaires in the order of hundreds of billions. But it is not enough for you to give up the Brussels lesson in Budapest, but to turn around in life for at least the sake of Hungarian teachers, and what is in the interest of Hungarian people, the interests of Hungarian teachers, I would represent it out in Brussels. But no. You and a large part of the Hungarian left are constantly in this foreign compliance psychosis, because you believe that what you are saying abroad is more likely to be true than what the Hungarian people are saying. That is why if you get on a plane and go to Brussels, pat your shoulders nicely, and if you go to the interim elections, you will be beaten nicely by your challengers, the candidates on the right, because the Hungarian people feel that you cannot represent their interests, just as you have done in the previous years, Mr President. As far as the situation in education is concerned, which you have dealt with here in your speech today. Which country is leading the physical Olympics tournament? Hungary. [[It's a grumble from DK's ranks.]] Which country is leading the chemical student Olympics tournament? The Hungarian students. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We should also review the covalent bond, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Who's leading the international math school Olympics tournament? The Hungarian students. Because Hungarian teachers and Hungarian students are doing very effective work, which you are never willing to acknowledge. When they were on the wheel, that's why they took a month's rent from them. [[Noise in the ranks of the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why 15,000 teachers have been dismissed, which is why schools have been shut down in more than 380 places because they don't appreciate them, they don't trust them, they just want foreign samples instead. As regards, say, the TIMSS reports or the PISA reports, honourable Member, in recent times, if you look at, say, the TIMSS report, which looks at the results of Hungarian students in four categories of mathematics and science, the fourth grade Hungarian students are there, such as Denmark, Sweden, Germany or Poland, we are in line with the level of the European Union. Hungarian eighth grade students from math are at 517 points above the European Union's 504 point average by means of the TIMSS survey. The Hungarian students you treated in Hungarian schools are better than the Americans, the English, the Finnish. We are significantly better in natural science than the countries examined, both in the fourth grade and in the eighth grade. In eighth grade, only one European Union country is better than us, Finland. We have also increased in the last measurement of the PISA report, and what is important is that more has come out of both the national competence measurement and the PISA measurement, that the family's decisive power is becoming less and less powerful when I look at the performance of the students, and it has fallen from 25 percent to 19 percent. If someone starts from a disadvantaged family, he is also at a disadvantage in school, in Hungarian, and the ability of Hungarian schools to compensate for the disadvantages, thank God, has improved. That's why the government said [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It's possible that there could be a war situation, there could be war inflation, there could be war increases, but this year's, next year's and the next 10-10 percent wage increase, and if your minework doesn't succeed, we're confident that there'll be a higher wage increase for teachers. Thank you for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-18-20	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Why would the government win even at market prices? You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-21	Mr President, Dear House, I've heard the Flegma speeches from the pro-government, but my suggestion is that you answer one question: is it true that you want to win even on the market? Is it true that they keep the 27 percent VAT content in the bills that are also taken to market prices, which is still there for most of the factors? Instead of abolishing the cost reduction, you should now talk about how and why family members, children's educators, people in a difficult social situation and our fellow countrymen who, after their completely unthinkable, undeveloped, one-time stand, may now feel that in a situation of absolute uncertainty, they are not given a briefing or a handhold. And they're having fun, unfortunately. The thing is, every bill has VAT, and now I see them browsing their little papers, but it's very, very simple to think about what kind of answer they should be giving right now. If there is a 27 percent VAT on an account and it can increase by two to three times the tax account, then the revenue generated by the government will also increase more than once. After the families pay more, they'll have more burden, you'll be pocketing some of the difference. If you have any decency, in the midst of sarcastic grunts and big vest speeches, you can report one thing here today and now, that you do not claim the extra VAT income that is generated by the fact that Hungarian people have to pay more unreally out of compulsion. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] If you have maintenance, you will also be named how you intend to leave this unused VAT revenue with the Hungarian people, or how you wish to provide unilateral assistance to those who raise, work, carry this national economy on their backs, but are now in uncertainty about what autumn will bring them. It's quite amazing to look at typical examples. The rural family, who sustains itself by caring for animals, now pays about HUF 65 thousand for electricity, according to the new calculations, without any detailed rules, because you couldn't even put them on the table for HUF 400,000, only the VAT content of which is more than HUF 80,000. Only the VAT collected by you can be more for this family than it has been paid in total for their electricity consumption. [[14.00]] A couple with children live in Kádár's cube in Budapest's agglomeration: the monthly gas bill can only be over 41,000 instead of the current account of approximately 19 thousand forints. Let's figure out how much of this VAT is. They see that if what you have painted in the not-so-bright sky is true, then the extra VAT that Hungarians pay can be in the order of hundreds of billions. Your job now would be and would be limited to stating that you do not require extra payments from Hungarian people in such a disaster situation, and you could even push them by helping these Hungarian people. It would be worth finding an answer to a question, perhaps, at the level of secretary of state, between the many ratings and rock throwings - you really are so chaotic in governing, so you didn't know that this was going to happen, or when we fought about it here in the budget debate, did you consciously lie to us? In your draft budget, they expect 30 percent more VAT revenue, and they want to collect VAT of HUF 7100 billion in Hungary in the next budget year. Even now, two weeks ago, they announced that they wanted to ask the Hungarian people for 20 billion more VAT, which is part of one of their justifications. So did you know, in advance, that this 30 percent plus VAT comes from a market-price reduction, and that it includes people's extra payments, or did you simply say that we didn't know what was coming, but now we're going to collect 30 percent more VAT? Which one of these claims is true? One's worse than the other. Chaos steering may be even worse than knowingly lying, because it has some routine and experience. The fact is that if you have a sense of responsibility, you will now turn for the first time towards family members who have children, saying that it will not only be a large family discount, because it is a child, the two children are children, and every family who has children in Hungary will be guaranteed that they will not pay more in scale than before. This would be the responsible attitude, and then we would have to solve the problem with the cata, and that a typical family in a life situation should not feel threatened by its basis of existence, because that is what is happening at these moments. It doesn't matter who's right, a government, if it creates this feeling in the masses, is unfit for its task. So I expect you to declare that you will not collect more VAT from the Hungarian people because of market prices, and that the children's children will be put to safety, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but here and now. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-07-18-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer responds, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He said he didn't want to hear ratings, but he didn't stop himself from doing that if I was paying attention, but anyway, forget it. I would like to answer your question first of all: what is the government doing? In contrast to what you said, the government protects families. [[Demercation and interruptions from opposition ranks.]] From you, too, and the Hungarian people know that. It is known that you know that you were supported to a minimum on April 3rd, and that you have since lost every election. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Yes, yes, to a significant extent. And you can also know, honourable Member, that the Hungarian people know exactly who stands by them and who doesn't, that your party has in the meantime become a dwarf party. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This shows precisely that the Hungarian people are aware of the situation. As well as the fact that the war has been going on for almost five months. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] The war has been going on in our neighborhood for five months, and questions have come up that have been unimaginable. How much energy costs is a very important question, but unfortunately it is only the second, the first question is that it will be enough. And the reason for this is the war, and the misguided sanctions in Brussels. [[Intervention from opposition lines: Let's hear a solution!]] There were two points about sanctions. The first is to end the war. Turns out that's not true, the war has been going on unfortunately ever since, and it's terrible and sad. The second point about sanctions was that they hurt Russia more than the European Union, which imposed sanctions, European countries, and it turned out that this idea was wrong, that the Russians were at their money because of rising prices, and that Europe was sinking into a huge crisis. [[Intercom from the opposition ranks, you're on the government!]] Therefore, since energy is a key issue, the Hungarian government has made it clear that it means a red line, at oil we can remember that we have fought to make fixed-line transport an exception to sanctions, so we can keep the fuel price of 480 HUF per litre. I would like to note in parentheses that the Croatians also introduced a price cap, but not at 480 forints, but at 700 forints per litre and not on the highway. We have therefore fought the exemption from sanctions at oil, and we have made it clear on gas sanctions that we are not willing to negotiate gas sanctions, because this would put Hungary's energy supply in jeopardy and would completely abolish the reduction in the costs. As far as Paks is concerned, if you'll allow me, I'll go for the power. What a Paks friend the Hungarian left has become! [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government ranks, among them: And in a week!]] It's new news, and it's certainly a pleasure to ask you to support Paks II. construction, because if Paks II were standing, there wouldn't be this type of problem. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] But with the Paks Nuclear Power Plant that is currently operating, let me tell you how to replace your experts. The fact is that the Paks power plant is undoubtedly an extremely important point in maintaining and maintaining the power supply and the reduction of electricity, it is extremely important, but the facts show that it accounts for 50% of the electricity production in Hungary, it accounts for 30% of the consumption in Hungary, we are exposed to approximately 20% of gas power plants and 25-30 percent of imports, the prices of which have obviously increased significantly. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] However, Paks is a key issue, as is Paks II. So do I. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Speak of VAT, my friend.]] And let me say so much, Mr honourable Member and honourable House, that, since you are concerned about the rent, as you are now concerned about Paks, which is a whole new situation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do you want the VAT or do you not want the VAT?]] in relation to the rent, your candidate for Prime Minister, whom you supported, said such things: "We do not want to stop prices on the world market at the border. Are you interested in the price now? Then you didn't care, Your Honour? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Are you taking the VAT or not taking it?]] Why don't you go to your colleagues and your candidate for Prime Minister, who also said that you must feel the increase in energy prices? That's what Peter Márki-Zay said, and you weren't worried then, and now you're extremely worried. [[Continued intervention from opposition lines.]] And so much, perhaps, honourable Member, that this division and this clutter of speech can be explained by what is happening at Jobbik. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And in that sense, we might as well be lenient, because you have now lost your party leader, your group leader, and if I understand correctly, the lady who has also played an important role in your party, and I understand that good-bye always hurts, you have to give her time to deliver it, but that doesn't yet. [[Gergely Harvesto: But what about VAT?]] and it has not happened that you have always been in favour of abolishing the reduction of the rent, and we are defending the reduction of the rent and the Hungarian families. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-24	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Ágnes Vadai, DK Group, spoke with the title "Actual Affairs." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-18-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The Orbán government will introduce the most brutal austerity package in Hungary after the change of regime in these weeks. Relaying, removal of the kata, passed-on special taxes and job termination. This government is the government of austerity, tax increases, overhead and mass job cessation. I'm going to tell you the story of how you cheated your own voters in the first place. In 2010, after the global economic crisis, you had a historic opportunity to fulfill the thousand-year-old dream of Hungarians, their will to join Europe so that we could finally catch up with Europe. The world economy has been launched, economic growth has continued, and the European Union has poured EU funds into our country not with tubs, but with tank trucks. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2006!]] We have had a few years of development, even if only squinting, but we can compare ourselves to Western European countries. However, you were preparing for something quite different. First, democracy began to be eradicated. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, among them: Whoa!]] they have invaded every institution, they have written their own constitutions, they have written their own electoral laws, and all to steal EU money. You have not brought home the money from the European Union by wheelbarrow, but by truck convoy. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Hungary was robbed quite simply. But, of course, that wasn't enough. In order to be able to get rich even after EU money was stolen, they started knowingly weakening the forint. [[That was Medgyessy!]] After all, we know that the stolen euro is worth more than the weak forint at home. In addition, the multinationals were very happy about the weak forints, as they had to pay the Hungarian workers less every year in euros. So the billionaire elite of Fidesz benefited, and, of course, the multinationals benefited. [[14.10]] Only then you couldn't stop and started down the slope: the difference was 152 HUF from 265 HUF to 417 HUF! In the meantime, of course, long before the war broke out, so I ask you not to lie about Orbán inflation, which has now become quite tragic, and I think we believe that this is not the end. And, of course, the European Union finally realized that you sent the money to the Hungarians over the last decade was simply stolen. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That was you!]] So they shut off the taps. Of course, they needed money, which is why they took out loans, and the loans they took in were indebted to the country. So we get the formula for collapse: Orbán inflation plus dewy HUF plus high government debt plus high government deficit plus suspension of EU funds equals economic crisis, austerity and tax increases. The moral crisis of Fidesz has now become the country's economic crisis. You have been playing with fire until now, unfortunately, you have managed to burn down the Hungarian economy. What awaits us now, because of the Orbán austerity package? Orbán's inflation has long been a tribute to us, but it will only get worse: 1500 forints of bread and 2 thousand forints of red tomatoes, not yellow; half a million people have already lost their livelihood by abolishing the catalog, but Viktor Orbán has announced that much more jobs will be lost in Hungary; ten or even 100,000 forints will increase the household rent, and there will be more and more families where the gas and electricity will be turned off for you, family support! And there will be a dramatic rise in the number of pensioners who will freeze in their own unheated apartments and homes after a life of honor. So your real programme is Orbán inflation, the bled-out national currency, the austerity, the tax increase, the overhead increase and the mass job cessation. Of course, there is also money for the luxurious life of the Fidesz luxury elite during the regime: the salaries of the ministers were increased by HUF 650 thousand, who do not come in; who knows how much the giga-mega goes to the 20th of August fireworks, the price of which has been completely encrypted for ten years, and the Fidesz President will receive an extra billion forints this year. But what is truly outrageous is that they give support to Bosnian and Serbian businesses for 14 billion forints, while the Hungarian businesses have been raised and the money is being spent on Hungarians across the border without counting. Just last week, Minister of State Tállai announced that their businesses would receive 6.5 billion, just after they killed the Kata. Let me translate. You're talking about luxurious yachts and airplanes filled with billions of public money. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] you will see how the fire that you have lit destroys the livelihoods of Hungarian households. There is no greater national interest...
u2022-07-18-26	Thank you, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-18-27	... thanthatyou'regonnagetoutofthiscountry. [[Applause in DK's ranks. A statement from the ruling parties: Shame!]]
u2022-07-18-28	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let us be clear at the outset: indeed, we are in an extraordinary situation because there is a war going on, and the war has extremely serious economic consequences. You are right that the rise in energy prices has already started, as has the failed economic policy and energy policy in the EU. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] To mention the figures: according to Eurostat, energy prices have increased by twenty to a few percent in the previous year, and this is now more than 40 percent; inflation has not been seen in Hungary for forty years, but has not seen all of Europe in forty years! To give you a more precise scale of energy prices: the price of gas, when you look at stock prices, has multiplied by six, and the price of electricity has increased by five times an amazing rise! And in contrast to opposition appeals, economic difficulties affect not only us but everyone, which is why emergency plans are being put in place in Germany, Italy and France, and they are also planning to limit the production and energy consumption of certain economic sectors. In Germany, only this year the service providers increased their accounts by 75 percent, and they openly talk about the possibility that there may not be any gas, not for us, but for Germany. [[Gergely Harvesto: Twice as many...]] Thus, decisions are made on the need to limit air conditioning, heating, and they also speak openly about the need to limit the use of hot water. It also shows that whatever you claim, nothing in Europe will be like before the war. The opposition's position on the war is extremely hypocritical and untrue, for two reasons. We remember how they tried to bring the country closer to the war: they would have sent weapons and soldiers, and while the message of the election was quite clear, even after 3 April they talked about sending weapons. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That's not true!]] I'll send it to you, Your Honour. The lack of credibility is also reflected in the fact that the government has been called to account for energy prices by attacking the cost reduction since its launch, i.e. since its birth. When the government introduced it, you, your party president, said it was stupid. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Gyurcsány!]] I'd like to quote you exactly, you said it was a stupid thing to say to companies about limiting energy prices, that's what they argued, and we need profit anyway. A few weeks ago in the campaign, they made it clear that they would lead to a reduction in the rent, arguing that prices could not be stopped at the border. [[Gergely Harvesto: You led him out! You don't have to listen to Marquis-Zay. Eszter Vitalos: You're lying!]] And even in these days, the left-wing leaders have spoken about it, please pay attention, because the quote follows that the price cap is not needed, we do not need a reduction in the rent, we need to adapt to the market, that is what the candidate for the common President of the Republic of the Left said. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You have to work for 150,000 extra payments! I didn't say that! The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I will correct myself on one thing: there was a kind of reduction during left-wing governance, Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Gergely Harvestó: All right, we're here!]] For example, it provided a huge electricity discount to the Timi Land factory in Mosonmagyaróvár, its own company. [[Gergely Harvesto: You've already lost a lot of lawsuits on this one!]] Professionals working there had to pay multiple electricity and gas prices at home. Dear House, The situation could not be clearer: there is a government that wants to protect families in this exceptional situation, and to maintain as much as possible the cost reduction, and there is a left that criticizes, demands, claims [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is the job of the opposition!]] But if it were up to him, there would be no price restriction in Hungary at all. In the case of average consumption, the amended rules also mean that HUF 159 thousand [[The president's ringing the bell.]] support for a Hungarian family. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It was not calculated correctly, Mr. Secretary of State. Eszter Vítalos: Stop yelling!]] If you were in office, that wouldn't exist. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We can count! The average is not good!]] From an obvious political calculation... honourable Member, allow me to say at least one sentence: I have also given you and your voters the respect that I have listened to you, and I will always do so. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'll listen to you.]] From an obvious political calculation, you're talking about collapse, at least that's what you're hoping for. The collapse was when wages were drastically cut during their governance, when energy prices were freed without restrictions, just as they are now in other EU countries. [[Gergely Harvesto: There was a fraction of what they just made people pay for!]] The collapse was when the home creation programme was abolished and foreign currency lending was allowed when cosmetic numbers were sent to Brussels to ask for a lifeline at the same place. Meanwhile, they sold everything they could, and there was a result, including 12 percent unemployment. If we listened to you in this situation, we would return to this path; I would not recommend it to ourselves or to the country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Following the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war, Brussels' decision-makers immediately started imposing economic sanctions in order to force the Russian party to halt. Instead of the rushing oil embargo instead of strategic calm, it is now gas embargo plans, proposals to clean and air clothes instead of protecting the European population, and the result was a prolonged war instead of peace, and the governments of the European countries seem to be powerless to deal with rising energy prices, placing the burden entirely on the general public. Europe's daily bills of EUR 1 000 are not uncommon. Even in rich Germany, there is a heating and car usage restriction, even hearing about a housing cooperative where hot water can only be used in certain time bands, and even in a German district from mid-September, just when schools start, hot water is turned off in 86 schools. [[14.20]] We must state that the misguided Brussels sanctions policy has worked the other way around: it hurts the person who wanted to sanction it, not the one who wanted to sanction it. In addition to the war, faulty sanctions cause a radical rise in energy prices. What does this look like? So that, while on the world market, electricity could be bought at a monthly average price of 20 HUF/kilowatt last year, [[Interjection from DK's ranks: How much do we have?]] , now more than 170 forints/kilowattó. This is more than 8.5 times the increase. The situation is similar with gas prices. Last year it was 87 forints per cubic metre, which is now over 700 forints per cubic metre. In addition, trends do not indicate a slowdown. Therefore, in addition to the fast-paced prices, the penalties and the prolonged war, we must do everything we can to protect the Hungarian people and the functioning of the Hungarian economy in this difficult situation. That is why the government has announced the energy threat and the establishment of an operational tribe in this area. Of course, the real solution we all know will continue to be peace. Unfortunately, there is no peace yet. Therefore, it is important that there is, and remains, a reduction in, the average consumption. [[Interview from DK's ranks: We can see that!]] Probably the problem with the left is that the tiny fork is slipping out of average consumption. [[Moraj and intervention from the opposition, among other things: No, that's not the problem! Ouch! He was pretty weak.]] But what does that mean in practice? Today, the average household in Hungary is paying HUF 93 thousand a year for electricity thanks to the reduction of the rent, without any reduction in the costs, this would be more than HUF 600 thousand. In the case of gas, it will pay an average of 283,000 forints on average, while without it almost 2.2 million forints would be paid. So in one year, this means saving more than HUF 1.9 million in average consumption for Hungarian people. This is therefore a great help to families, which is why it is outrageous and irresponsible that left-wing parties and their negotiators are still in favour of eliminating the reduction of the rent. It has already been said that Péter Márki-Zay said several times in the campaign that he would stop the reduction of the rent; remember, he said that people should feel the market price. Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of the left, said that the reduction of the rent was stupid. But your candidate for President of the Republic, Péter Róna, even on Friday morning, said that you don't need a price cap, you don't need a reduction, and everyone has to adapt to the market. This is a direct speech, honourable left-wing fellow Members, it cannot be misunderstood, it is quite clear what you want. In conclusion, the Fidesz-KDNP government is the only one in Europe that protects families with strong price restrictions and provides as much protection as possible for Hungarian families. With the pricestops and the reduction of the rent, a Hungarian person saves about HUF 220,000 a month on average. That's what the left would take out of their pockets by cutting the rent. However, we will not let this happen, we will continue to be on the side of the Hungarian people, and we will do everything in our power to ensure that the price of the war is not paid by the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He mentioned Germany, rightly, because it is the largest and strongest economy in Europe, so let me begin by saying here. At present, the price of gas in Germany is six times what was before, and no one can say where this price increase stops. In fact, it's just a debate about a hundred percent of this terrible amount when, how to burden the residents, or perhaps the service provider should do something about it, they say it's going to fail. So the residents, the German people, are at risk: this terrible price increase, which they are already feeling, will continue to be felt several times in the future. Plus, if we add that the maintenance of the North Stream 1 gas pipeline is currently underway, we should add that if we look at the German declarations that no one is likely to know that after 21 July, when these works are supposed to be completed, gas will arrive on this pipeline from Russia to Germany, at least 40 percent of the reduced volume or not, and if not, what consequences will there be. Well, we already have a hunch there's bad and worse scenarios on the table. It is also worth recalling that in Ludwigsburg and several cities in Germany, they announced that they were preparing hot - water shelters for Germans, those who were cold. And, once again, we are talking about Europe's largest and strongest economy, where they prepare warmers for people who can't heat up their homes. [[Interview from DK's ranks, it'd be nice if you guys did it, too. Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] They're cold, and there's no solution to their situation. And winter isn't even close. I would also like to bring here that the association of German cities and municipalities said that the temperature should be reduced from 24 degrees, that the regulation needs to be changed, and that 18 degrees is sufficient. The German Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance Lindner, said that within a few weeks, within months in Germany, a very worrying situation and three, four, perhaps five years of deficit may arise. And Minister of Economy Habeck said that we are in a gas crisis if we do not yet feel this about Germany. Perhaps a sentence from Shell's CEO, who was talking about a large Western energy company, is that it's supposed to be a hard winter, a massive release of energy prices, in the worst case, we have to limit consumption, said Shell's CEO. The Commissioner for Energy in Brussels, a certain Kadri Simson, said that we are not solidarity enough because we have declared an energy emergency and are banning the export of energy sources. He said that we were the cause of the problem. Well, the Commissioner in Brussels must also acknowledge that we help anyone if we can, but the most important thing is the energy supply of Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy. Let me also add to what the Member said, and let me remind you of Mr Jámbor's speech today, who said that in recent years we have done nothing to reduce Russian dependence: this was one of the biggest lies that has been said here today. I would like to remind you that in 2010, we had gas interconnectors with two of the neighbouring countries, now six out of the week. Slovenia and I have failed so far, because of him, and we hope that we will be able to make up for it. So we have a gas connection with six instead of two; and in 2010 we had a long-term gas purchase agreement with Russia, now we have two, because it is also at the LNG terminal in Krki with Shell. So we have done everything we can to protect Hungary's energy security and the reduction of the rent, and in the battles and debates in Brussels and in Hungary, we have done everything we can and will continue to do to protect the Hungarian families. And let me also say, in closing, that I always have an interest in watching, perhaps like the Member, when criticizing the Orbán government from the left, whether it is economic or energy performance, saying that they have done better or better. I, too, may have mentioned Dömötör Secretary of State here today, made an acute summary: before 2010, there was a crisis, an economic crisis, the result of which was bankruptcy, IMF credit, unemployment, indebtedness, a month's wages and pensions, and no one was protected. Now crises are coming in one by one, migration, Covid, the economic crisis with Covid, the war, the economic crisis with Covid, and it's not a state failure, it's a 7.1 percent record increase last year, it's looking good again this year, and we're going to protect the reduction in overhead and all the achievements we've achieved so far. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-34	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-35	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The Hungarian borders are under unprecedented pressure. The Ukrainian border is known: over 900 thousand migrants, indeed fleeing the war, crossed the border during that time [[Zoltán Varga: Migrant?]] Since the war took place, the migratory pressure on the southern borders has also increased tremendously. [[Zoltán Varga: Louis, start again.]] Only a few numbers: 2019 [[Zoltán Varga: Ukrainian migrant.]] the average number of cases per day was 30, 80 in 2020 and 200 in 2021, and now the average number of cases is around 500. [[14.30]] This means that, in essence, one wants to cross the Hungarian border by force every minute. All year last year 123 [[Sic!]] measures were taken by police and soldiers protecting the border; this year, in the first half of the year, this figure reached 114 thousand. So we're close to last year's whole year. It can also be said that migrants are becoming increasingly violent, regularly provoked by border guards, but they have also been shot at, right, only shot in the air, intimidating Hungarian border guards. And we also know that people smugglers and migrants [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They have firearms, since the shooting in the Subotica Forest took place among migrants and resulted in fatalities. All of this projects terrifying images, because let us not forget that there is no chance of reducing the migrant flow. Trafficker activity is increasing. Last year, 450 people were smuggled against the authorities in the first semester, and this year we are now over 860. These are mainly Ukrainian, Romanian, Serbian and Hungarian smuggling networks, which may also act aggressively against Hungarian police authorities. Although the dismantling of the Slovenian fence seems to facilitate the southern Balkan route, we need to know that Croatia, on the other hand, has undermined the border section of Serbia, so the road will not be easier there. As Ukrainian grain exports decrease, it is also known that the migratory pressure due to hunger [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's gonna get stronger. The UN's specific organizations are talking about 130-150 million starving people in Africa. In recent years, the arrival of migrants in Europe has put an extreme burden on the social services networks of EU countries, which suggests that there is a danger that more and more people might want to stay in Hungary as a destination country. The number of migrants in Turkey who want to go on the road is over 3 million. Some of these data far support the need to strengthen our defence capabilities at our southern borders. Therefore, the Fidesz fraction fully supports the government's decision to set up border hunting regiments. They'd be working under the command of the Alert Police. These border-hunting regiments would serve. At the first stage, we would like to set up 2,200 border hunters at the second stage, whose work is managed by the commander of the border protection zones. Only in this way can we ensure the safety of Hungarian people, the security of Hungary, so that we can meet the Schengen requirements. Let us not forget that Hungary also protects the borders of the European Union when it sets up border-hunting regiments in a stand-by police organization. This is our obligation if we seriously believe that Hungary is our first priority, and the security of the Hungarian people is our first priority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. I would also like to ask my fellow Members, who have entered the room in the meantime. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Please take your seats. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-07-18-37	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Indeed, we have seen what a left-wing government turn is like in a country. We have seen Slovenia's example, the former national government, like the Hungarian government, built a fence and defended Slovenia's external borders, protected it from illegal migration, and, as soon as the left-wing government came to power, announced that it would break down this fence and consider migration to be a natural part of the European way of life, and will focus on integration rather than stopping migration. We can remember an interview by Gergely Christmas when he was the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, in which he said that he considered this a human rights issue, but he will not put it on posters in Hungary, because there is no choice in Hungary. We can therefore clearly see that the left is always pro-Migration in Hungary and abroad, not to stop migration, but to set up integration programmes where possible instead. Some Hungarian politicians have said the same thing. One of them:, The Government builds on the worst instincts when it wants to put a fence on the border, said Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is not here at the moment. By no means should the border fence be built, said Gergely Christmas, their former Prime Minister's candidate. The country that draws a wall at its borders is in a hurry to lose, and with this it puts itself in a ghetto, said Ágnes Kunhalmi. Also:, In the medium term, domestic workers benefit from immigration, as their wages increase, said the momentary Anna Russian. Or to quote Turdai Bencé:, We have said a thousand times that the fence built at the southern border is pointless, inhumane and wastefully expensive. The Tordai Bence, who said that weapons must be sent to Ukraine both before and after the elections, said that otherwise the Hungarian southern border fence is pointless, because in his view sending weapons to Ukraine is a sensible thing, defending the Hungarian external border is pointless. We can see the attitude of the left. Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr Kósa pointed out, while, two years ago, 46 thousand illegal migrants wanted to enter Hungary, 122 thousand people last year and 119 thousand people this year, so within days, there will be as many illegal attempts at border crossing in the south of Hungary as last year in total, which is more than two and a half times the number before last year, and we are still in the middle of July. That is why the government has decided to increase the protection of the southern border here. Traffickers are getting more aggressive. In 173 cases, illegal migrants attacked Hungarian police and Hungarian soldiers. In 78 cases, their vehicles were damaged, and in 21 cases the border lock itself was damaged. That is why the protection of the southern border must be increased. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why we're setting up the border-hunting regiment, which is why the recruitment of border-hunters started. They will also have access to weapons, certification, manufacturing rights, foreign police licenses. During their training period, they can expect a salary of HUF 300,000, and then, when they are on duty, they can receive a salary of nearly HUF 400,000. At the same time, the government decided to make a significant wage increase in law enforcement personnel. As a result, the salary of the deputy officers will increase by 30-44 percent, with an increase of 18-25 percent for the officers. This means that you will receive 384,000 forints from September instead of 267 thousand forints, and one starting officer will receive a 510 thousand forint increase instead of 393 thousand forints. The government has also decided that this is the first step, and there will be a second step in wage increases. This means that we are making a HUF 51 billion wage increase for law enforcement employees. We do this because security as a value is valued. During the period of war, the period of energy crisis resulting from misguided sanctions policies, security needs to be given much more attention, so it is a HUF 51 billion additional resource and therefore the salary increase for law enforcement staff. All the police officers who defended the security of the Hungarian people at the southern border in recent years deserve respect and respect, that the shooting that was in Subotica among smuggling gangs, which resulted not only in injuries but also in the dead, did not happen in Hungary, but in the south of the Hungarian border. We hope that the border hunters will protect the Hungarian southern border from autumn as a special, trained unit of the police, and that the police, who have defended the border so far, can return to their own county, their own settlements and protect the everyday safety of the people there. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] [[14.40]]
u2022-07-18-38	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-07-18-39	Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Katalin Csöbör, Fidesz; Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz. Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Rebekah Szabó, Dialogue; István Szabó, Mi Hazank; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Lajos Löcsei, Momentum; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Olga Kálmán, DK; István Simicskó, KDNP; Gábor Bányai, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; János Bencze, Jobbik; Balázs Simon Róbert, Fidesz; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik; Noémi Végh, Jobbik.
u2022-07-18-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that a motion to waive the immunity of Andrea Hegedüs, DK, Member of Parliament, was received on 11 July 2022 14.B.1107/2021/28. I'm a member of the Miskolc District Court on a private charge of defamation. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President for speaking time limits. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The DK Group proposed that the T/152 on Hungary's central budget for 2023 should not take place at the meeting of the National Assembly on 19 July 2022. Final vote of bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Representatives of the opposition side and some representatives of the pro-government side vote by raising their hands. Defiance, noise on the opposition side. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Vote!]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:42 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the room quietly if they have to leave because of their urgent public duties. Thank you. [[It's a short break. Several congressmen are leaving.]] We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Surprisingly, I'm about to deliver a message from my mother. I spoke to him on the phone yesterday. My mother is known to be an 82-year-old widow living alone, who has a good pension for every penny in the world, if 120 thousand forints can be considered a good pension. He called me crying that he thought that raising your rent wouldn't affect him. He calculated that only the gas bill will increase its overhead costs by tens of thousands of forints a month and every year, so that technically, if you look at the winter-autumn months, it will catch cold all the days and weeks. My mother tells you to be ashamed of what you've been told. We see that the collapse you and the Orbán government have produced is a record. How does your wonderful boss say it again? Well, that's for sure. You can see it from the moon. The biggest problem is that they drag ten million people, including pensioners, and, of course, my mother, with this collapse. You are talking about reducing the cost and protecting the cost of reducing the rent, even though there is no item if we look at it that does not increase people's spending. It's not a reduction in the rent, it's an increase in the tax burden of a thousand billion, and I'm not saying it, but, you know, György Matolcsy, get him to discuss it, but if possible, quietly, because it's going to make the forint's exchange rate go down even more. It is not a reduction in rent, it is an increase in house loans, it is not a reduction in overhead costs, it is an increase in overhead charges and phone charges, it is not a reduction in overhead charges, it is an increase in overhead costs that you have to pay more if you use a credit card or do any kind of banking operation at all. It is not a reduction in overhead costs, but an increase in the cost of a 40-forint bun for two weeks now costs 52 forints, emphasizing only one item of the 30 percent general food price increase. It's not a reduction in overhead, it's an increase in overhead now, it's the cataclysm you're doing. There is also an increase in the number of water shortages in the country. You have destroyed utility companies, which is why you are worried about many places in the country, including us in Debrecen, so there is no water in more and more places, and that is why your colleague Tamás Menczer, who has now fled to use water only as necessary. The Orbán government, your reduction of the rent is a lousy lie, a delusion that becomes clear to more and more people. It's a brutal tax increase, brutal inflation in Orbán. It's a reduction in your rent. It is a shame what they are doing to the country, and this is not only my mother, I am not only saying it, but it is almost ten million Hungarian people as well. [[Applause from the DK Group.]]
u2022-07-18-42	Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry that your mother, who must have lived a life of good faith and hard work, is involved in your political day. [[Zoltán Varga: Man!]] To his battles. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Is this what we call mothering? Z. Carpathian Daniel: You know, it's about the people! It's a noise from Jobbik's ranks. Meanwhile, Dr. János Fónagy takes a break, waiting for the end of the noise, the interruptions. Szabolcs Szabó to the silent Dr. János Fónagy: Now, that is true! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Admit it!]] Then I'll tell you that your mother lived when there was a war in this country, she was alive when there were shots fired on these streets, and she was alive when there were tanks on this street. Your mother has experienced many things, and I'm sure you're not pleased that your son is joining the insidious, cowardly and otherwise unjust accusations of the people around you. Ladies and gentlemen. There's a war going on in our neighborhood, a war your mother's been through. [[Gergely Harvester: And what your buddy started!]] We are living in conditions where energy prices, which have been predictable for decades, are no longer predictable, have increased many times. The Brussels policy, which you have supported, has not fulfilled its expectations. Before my excellent fellow Members and fellow Members yell at me, just to make my attitude clear: I did not vote for the European Union. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: It's a big problem!]] [[14.50]] I do not think that the European Union, Europe, should be proud of XX. I don't think you can be proud of what you've done over the past centuries and over the past decade. After all this, I think that your accusations against the efforts of this government, which try to put into question the tens of millions of people referred to by you, are completely unfair, that the energy crisis that we have set up in the last few days, hours, would be unnecessary. I think you've never agreed with the reduction in the rent you're protecting right now. I don't think it was you, because you weren't here, but your principled friends had nothing to do with this reduction. Yes, I personally participated in the legislation establishing the reduction of the costs in December 2012 and 13th. I am proud of him, and I believe that I have contributed more to this society's daily life with my own activities than you have with this filth. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-18-44	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor in a minute.
u2022-07-18-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Well, for heaven's sake. Well, what are you talking about, honestly? ! How dare you, on behalf of my mother, make any accusations against me! ? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Well, you brought it up. Dr. János Fónagy: You brought him here.]] My mother was really alive at the time. [[Dr. János Fónagy: I was alive too.]] When there were tanks here, like you said. My mother was indeed alive when the potatoes had to be hunted in the fields, and my mother said that such a nasty, filthy, draining system as you have done here has never been in her life. And for you to be proud that you did not vote for accession to the European Union, I congratulate you very much. All I can say is that if you don't agree with him, then you don't have to beg and rush into the European Union right now for the money that you guys are stealing in the business. Shame on you! [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Be modest and modest!]] I'm not the only one saying this, and not just my mother, but 10 million from September... [[Eszter Vitalos: You can see it at protests! The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2022-07-18-46	Congressman, I would like your answer, please. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, From what I understand, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Sas, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. What about the voluntary firefighters? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, I am speaking for the benefit of over 600 volunteer firefighters' associations. These organisations and their members are those who can meet citizens, not only if their houses are on fire, but also during traffic accidents, in order to prevent storm damage, in order to eliminate damage caused by flood-like rains. Recently, the 13th. In addition to professional firefighters, the Rose Hill, Fotian and Zugló volunteers also helped in the vaccination of the Tatai Street warehouse. At the beginning of this month, the volunteers in the field were involved in the control of the vast Bükk forest fire. No one questions their role in the disaster management system, but the associations with more than 30,000 volunteers have come to the limit of their functionality. In addition to one percent, they can rely on municipal support and the proposals announced by the Hungarian Firefighter's Association. This year, the Alliance will allocate 600 million forints. However, their revenues no longer cover their expenditure in the current situation. I would like to make it clear to my fellow Members how much a unit that can intervene independently has to spend on fuel today. The filling of a 120-litre tank of a fire extinguisher is nearly 100,000 forints, while the consumption is 40 liters. The corresponding water transport vehicle can be filled with a minimum of 120 thousand forints. The fuel cost of a single migration can reach 200,000 forints, while an association can go out a hundred times a year to deal with disasters, or they would just march, because if it continues like this, they won't have the money. The problem was also raised by the leaders of the Hungarian Firefighter's Association months ago, but no substantive action has been taken so far. The drought that has hit the country has increased the risk of large-scale fires, and it is therefore a priority to maintain the operation of these associations. I would like to ask, with all due respect, Mr Deputy Minister, how you intend to solve this problem in order to enable voluntary firefighters to carry out their duties to protect all of us, given that the abolition of associations can cause systemic problems. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-18-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, voluntary fire brigades are of great value. There is also a part of this that manifests itself in fire-fighting, technical rescue tasks, in disaster situations, and helps those in distress. It is important to inform the local population, and it is also important to preserve tradition, to strengthen the community that they are doing. This has a very big tradition in Hungary, but also in other countries; once, when we were riding a bicycle all the way through Burgenland, I saw from settlement to settlement how many social programs are organized by local fire brigades, and this is no different in Hungary. This seems to be an old tradition of ours here in the Carpathian Basin or in the former Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, or perhaps elsewhere. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) 600 of these volunteer firefighter associations operate in Hungary, this number, this number of more than 600 is quite an increase. After all, you knew that when we started our government, there were about 283, or not about, 283 volunteer firefighters' associations, and now 689. So it is more worthwhile to organize in such associations, to do this work together, and even to have 63 of them in priority status, as they have also obtained a stand-alone intervention status, so that they can carry out both rapid and professional intervention, fire prevention, firefighting or technical rescue tasks. They also have an important task in the training of replacements, in community cohesion, in the care of traditions. I feel that over the last decade there has been a kind of alliance between voluntary firefighter associations, people and the government, because they represent a very important social value, so we have also increased the resources provided to them several times. At the beginning of our governance, there was 120 million forints in support of voluntary fire brigades, which is now, honourable Member, 700 million forints, of which there is 600 million forints for the work of the fire brigades and 100 million forints for the development of rescue organisations. As I said, 689 organisations that can submit applications can draw funds, and 63 of them receive support from disaster management, BM, on their own, in a unique decision. They may also apply for support in kind, radios, fire-fighting and protective equipment, and may also apply for them. This year, too, these applications arrived at the National Directorate for Disaster Protection of the Ministry of the Interior. But this is not the only form of support, because there were numerous local, even fire-fighting-unions in the Hungarian village program that could have received various devices, vehicles, and used them, and I know them, in my own district, and I saw them when they could get them, thank God. In addition, aid in kind is also granted to participate in 40 hours of basic fire-fighting training, 40 hours or 140 hours of fire-fighting and small-machine management courses free of charge, and is used by many. If I look at the last few years, 2020-21-22, so in two and a half years, let's say, the basic course was completed by 1594, the small machine management course was attended by 1091 and 218 of them took part in the firefighting course. This shows that what you have said, we share the same value, that voluntary fire brigades represent a very important value. Not only in an emergency but also between two emergencies, when community life is organised on the one hand, traditions are preserved, reinforcements are provided, they have an important contribution to local communities. That is why we have increased their support several times, four to five times over the last few years, and we hope that this is a more secure financial basis for all voluntary firefighters' associations. If you calculate that 700 million forints is much more than 120, then you can see that we have tried to increase their support in proportion to their appreciation, and that is our plan in the future, that we will naturally continue to do so. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-18-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2022-07-18-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What you said, Secretary of State, I fully agree, and I could accept that, but unfortunately, I didn't ask you that, but I asked you, in the last four months... [[Bence Rétvári: I was close to him.]] Yeah, it was very close. Technically speaking, we have been talking about the state-of-the-art fuel that firefighters can't get, and this causes significant problems for them, as well as the extra costs caused by the delivery of fire trucks to high-pressure columns. This is also a major problem. I am very pleased that so many people have supported firefighters in recent years, and I hope that this will continue to happen in the next period. Just because the leaders of the Hungarian Firefighter's Association announced the problem four months ago that the state-owned fuel causes them quite serious disruptions in their operation. And I would like to say here that four months is quite a long time, and you obviously know, Mr. Secretary, that a professional firefighter in the barracks has two minutes to go when the bell rings. Help me, please, so they can help us. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-18-52	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman did not accept the answer to his interpellation. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Éva Sebők, representative of the Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. What is the government planning to do to reduce the penalty rates for CSOK? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos, will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-53	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Before I introduce the text of the interpellation, I would like to inform you that I have already spoken on this subject on Monday last week. If this were not the case, it was not by accident, because last Monday I managed to speak to a completely empty horseshoe, and the governing parties did not feel the need to keep at least one on-call person in for the speeches on the agenda. I hope that's why there's someone in your ranks who feels ashamed. By the way of my speech, the central bank's base rate has increased again. In 2018, as a family politician at Momentum, I helped one of my fellow politicians prepare for a debate, and then I predicted for the future that we would be a country of the CSOK-damaged. It looks like this time is about to happen. At present, the central bank's base rate is 9.75 percent, although I haven't checked today, I don't know if it's increased. When the CSOK was introduced, this was 1.9-2.6, and even once during the existence of the CSOK, it was 0.9 percent. The penalty rate on the CSOK is five times the central bank base rate, which means that if a person had promised three children, so that he had taken up the support for a non-existing child, this could mean that he would have to repay up to 40 million for the 10 million he received. This is particularly critical in the case of domestic violence in the family, 40 million gives the victim a reason not to leave the abusive situation. Obviously, it doesn't just concern them, because there are many reasons why a social gathering can be interrupted. There can be many reasons for breaking up a marriage, estrangement, cheating, in which case it would also be important not to have 40 million hanging over the heads of married couples, but in the case of a rape, it is a matter of saving lives that this does not look like this. I would very much like us to finally address this issue, and the government would consider it important to curb the penalty rates of the CSOK. I'm asking you, are you planning on doing something about this? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-07-18-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Deputy Minister Eszter Vitalos. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I am very sorry that the Congresswoman spoke before a completely empty House last week on a very important subject, by the way. I propose that you try to take part in a type of speech when there are more people sitting in the House's walls. [[Éva Scars: Come in, Members!]] Not after the schedule. In his speech, however, he feels that he is concerned about the fate of Hungarian families. I am particularly pleased if that is true. I think it's worth clearing up a few things, though. There's a common password for former communists and your current benchmates, and that's not to do anything, that's not to be a problem. Unfortunately, this attitude marked the family policy that his allies were pursuing until 2010 and even the family tax relief was taken away at the time, the tax relief of large families was reduced, the upper age limit of the family allowance was reduced, the period of child benefit was shortened, a month's wages were taken from a number of sectors and pensioners. Are you talking about a difficult situation and usury here, honourable Member? Are you the ones who are attacking the civil-Christian government because, unlike you, we are making serious efforts for the Hungarian families? It is attacked, and in the midst of an obvious economic crisis, it is said that, thanks to the actions of the civil government, it remained at HUF 4000 billion for families from last year. It is attacked by the fact that in 2010 the financial assets of the families were 30,000 billion and 12 years later 70,000 billion forints. Let's talk factually, Congresswoman. The civil government has announced the family-friendly turn of events since 2010, and every year we have done more and more for families. In 2010, the duration of the plant was restored to three years. From 2011 we have introduced an increased family benefit covering both one and two children. The home creation programme started in 2012. From 2013 on, we protected the parents' workplace in the framework of the job protection action. From 2014 we introduced the family contribution allowance and the ged extra. From 2015 we voted in favour of the first married couple. From 2016 to 2019 we continuously increased the family discount. In 2017, we transformed the cradle system to reach 70,000 cradle seats by the end of this year. We officially declared 2018 the year of families. From 2019, parents were able to live with a reduction in mortgage debt. In 2020, we extended the range of family support beneficiaries. In 2021 we launched the largest home creation programme of all time. In 2022, we returned their personal income tax paid to Hungarian families in 2021. You know, Congresswoman, you're like two people holding heavy furniture when you're carrying closets, and the rest of you stand there so you don't do it like that. You're just obstructing us, obstructing us, and telling us not to do it like this, not like that. The CSOK was requested by 225 thousand families, with a total amount of HUF 716 billion. Of the cases of repayment, the child delivery deadline has now expired only for those who have taken up one child or another child in 16 years. They were supposed to meet the deadline in 2020, but we extended it because of Covid. At present, government offices have a numerically national procedure of around 50, which can end with repayments. I would like to reassure you, but most importantly, the families concerned, that the family sector is dealing with the issue and that we are trying to find a fair solution. That's how the government works. Not only do we need the CSOK, but everyone who has children in Hungary can still count on us, because Hungary's future is written by Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-56	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-57	Thank you very much. I don't think I've ever gotten a single answer this close to accepting it, but unfortunately, I don't have a chance to do that right now. I am glad that, after my speech last week and my repeated awareness today, they have finally decided to address this critical issue. I am very sorry that it has not been possible to set a deadline for when we can expect legislation or draft legislation to be presented in this regard. That's what I needed to accept. Thank you very much for the propaganda text you have given up, but you have proved it once again because you have failed to address the situation of the abused, especially women, so you have proved once again that you can always have a woman caught behind a few workshops every year. Thank you very much. [[15.10]]
u2022-07-18-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai and MEP Zsolt Molnár, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Construction and Investment:. What do you intend to do about the start of the investment in Club Aliga? It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-59	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The government's faulty environmental policy symbolizes the investment in Balatonaliga. As my fellow opposition Members have pointed out, I can only confirm that the problem is very serious. The government office, together with the local government, is doing everything in its power to make this environmental-destructive investment happen. Taking into account the Fundamental Law and the relevant nature conservation legislation, they allowed the installation of the coastal band in Club Aliga, increased the installation height to 18 metres, increased the construction capacity of the land to 80 percent, and provided public funds for this, all by declaring the project to be a priority investment in the national economy. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision on the initiative of the MSZP has clearly stated that the rules on the protection of the environment and the right of people to health and a healthy environment cannot be overwritten. Dear Minister. You yourself said that the system of key public investments was ripe for the review and assured me that nothing had yet happened on the ground. Of course, I would also like to remind you that my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös made such a package at the time, which, unfortunately, has not become anything in the last four years, so I am still looking forward to seeing it now. But after you spoke, a few days later your Deputy Secretary of State, Nándor Csepreghy, confirmed that the government would ask the investor to ask the local people for their opinion and only in that way carry out the investment. Despite everything, according to the locals, the preparations, Minister, are you listening? [[John Lazarus: Absolutely!]] They began quietly. Not only have construction sites been designated, but their boundaries have already been virtually painted. All signs suggest that environmental destruction will not wait for September. So, in view of what has been done so far, I would like to ask the Minister what he intends to do about the start of construction in Club Aliga, and how long there will be free passage to the coast of Alga because of the investment that is of major importance for the national economy. I'm asking you, but I'm sure those of you who are sitting in this room don't know that if this investment is made, there's absolutely no way to get down to the beach, so I'm sure it's going to indicate something. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-07-18-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-07-18-61	Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to thank you for the many questions you've asked about Lake Balaton. I think that last time we agreed with all my fellow Members that Lake Balaton is one of our most important national natural values, and I can even say that it is one of Europe's most important natural values, where we have at least as much to do to protect the coast as we do to protect water. After all, the water quality of Lake Balaton and the coast together constitute an ecological unit whose preservation is the government's dedicated goal and can be joined by all my fellow Members with a clear conscience. To this end, we have taken action over the last 32 years, regardless of political positions, and we are planning to do so in the future. At the same time, we have to face the fact that the aspect of nature conservation coincides with the fact that all Hungarian voters feel that they also own Lake Balaton. Fortunately, more and more people are going on vacation to Lake Balaton, and the number of people who are permanently or temporarily staying on the shore of Lake Balaton in rented or own property is constantly increasing to the benefit of the people there. In fact, after Budapest, the second largest agglomeration was created, which was not followed by infrastructure, settlement regulation, land regulation, social and community facilities, housing and private facilities that would serve as many people as they migrate from spring to autumn or from autumn to spring to Lake Balaton. I therefore believe that the caution you have expressed and the discussion in Parliament on this matter are expressly justified. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that none of my fellow Members in Parliament can cross the line that the local community has set. On June 6, 2019 the local community held a municipal council meeting, where they decided to represent the citizens of Balatonvilágos that this part of the settlement, Balatonvilágos, this property, which you mentioned, could be built up. According to the rules of democracy, we are not in a position and a state in which, as Parliament, we can override the commitment of the local body of representatives in this direction, fortunately, and I would like to strengthen this aspect, not to weaken it in the future. So I'm one of those government and government parties who say that on the shore of Lake Balaton, you can only build and build what the local community allows and allows. If the representative body of the local community, which is the depositary of local democracy, decides that this property can be built in, the Hungarian Parliament or the government has no right to question it. The second question, which I think is important to clarify, is that the building permit procedure has not even started here, Congresswoman. Therefore, the risk of this area being built up is not present at the moment, given that no one, any organisation, owner, investor or builder has submitted any construction permit. Last time, our fellow Member Rebecca Szabó asked me, to reassure him that our fellow Member Mihály Witzmann is working very hard to establish a compromise between the investor, the body of representatives and the local population, especially the voters who want to use the coast. The National Planning Council, which I am overseeing, will ensure that whatever the local construction regulations say, whatever it means, does not threaten us or the people living there. So, first of all, we cannot go against the Balaton-világos municipality; we can only build something worthy of Lake Balaton, which serves the confidence of the people there; and thirdly, we must persuade and force the investor to compromise with the locals, with the local government and with the local interest. In this I am happy to contribute, as in September and the last quarter of the year, I will submit to Parliament a package of laws on the order of state investments, including the revision of the entire construction rules, including the Balaton. I really hope you'll make up for your visit to Mezőhegyes, which you missed, even though I called you, and it gives me an opportunity to personally convince you of the nobility of my intentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-62	Thank you very much, Minister. I respectfully ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Minister's answer. [[Novak Forefather: Bet!]]
u2022-07-18-63	I'm still smurfing on the minister's response. First of all, thank you very much, Minister, for coming personally to convince me of this. I've been to the crime scene more than once and not twice, and I can pretty much see it, and I know what's happening. So what I can tell you is that I don't think Fidesz is having an argument with me, but with the people of Balatonaliga and the laws in force. That's one of them. The other is that I believe that that municipality has taken moderate account of the views of the people who live there. I understand and see this very clearly, and I think your Member of Parliament has done so, because he has tried to consult the mayor himself on several occasions, but the mayor has clearly refused to do so at all. The other is that we need to be aware that a valid contract is being terminated. The company, which was the maintenance company of the area, was able to obtain this area with a review almost ten years ago on the condition that the 540-metre beach promenade was maintained, giving it an independent location number. It's been ten years, and there's still no serial number. So I'd still like to ask you [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That in the event that the municipality does not hear the voice of the people, then do so!
u2022-07-18-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. So the congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: I'm still smurfing! Defiance.]] I would like to inform this House and, of course, our two interpelling fellow Members that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Representative of Mr President Novák, representative of our country, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Why do they tolerate the LGBTQP propaganda parades instead of the ban? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister, Minister of Justice Judit Varga, who is responsible and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2022-07-18-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, This year, too, the LGBTQP Propaganda Parade announced on 23 July was successful, as a coordinated action of the LGBTQP Propaganda Parade last year, from Andrássy Road and many symbolic public areas, after we announced several locations at the first possible moment, at 0:00 a.m. on that day, and the BRFK was forced to acknowledge our priority, so the deviants can't march on the most symbolic sites. The so-called Pride organizers can thank you for the two-thirds victory of Fidesz [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Because their march is not officially banned. Unfortunately, our country is the only party that demands the elimination of the homosexual propaganda event, because we do not accept the support and tolerance policy of the Gyurcsányek or Orbáns in the case of the parades promoting all kinds of sexual deviantism today, and we are calling for the ban. Obviously not all the places from the opponents can be reserved for all time from the deviants, but at the time originally announced, they were forced out of the most symbolic Andrássy road and to acquire and return several other representative public areas to normal Hungarian families with serious success and signal value: enough of the LGBTQP propaganda! We don't want any of the people from all over the world who are here. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: You're frustrated!]] Many planned to travel to the 23rd of July, which was already announced in January, but with the prolonged dispute, at least the participants of the planned deviant tourism were dissuaded. BRFK was forced to ban so-called Pride last year from the most symbolic places in the history of their parades because our homeland had seized it earlier and thanks to the legal representation of Dr. Tamás Gaudi-Nagy [[Peter Ungár: Ah! Ah!]] was successful in its appeal against the police, so the LGBTQP Propagandists were not allowed to travel on the Andrássy út-Bajcsy-Zsilinszky út-Deák tér route announced by the Rainbow Mission Foundation. The organizers of the deviant parade, in their application to the Kúria last year, said, I quote, that the loss of the priority acquired with regard to Andrássy út renders the holding of the Budapest Pride event impossible in its present form. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear Secretary of State, What the Fidesz government hasn't known or wanted in 12 years about the parade, we solved last year, and this year the police have done the right thing without a mansion remedy. So why don't you ban the LGBTQstb parade? [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: What is this frustration?]] I look forward to your substantive response and finally your action for 12 years. [[Applause in the ranks of our country. László Toroczkai: Is he the frustrated four children?! Aren't you the frustrated ones?! Péter Ungár: When there are so many problems...! László Toroczkai and Péter Ungár intervene.]]
u2022-07-18-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer to the interpellation said will be Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The majority of his interpellation was an expression of opinion about a specific event I do not wish to respond to. In relation to the event in question, the Ministry of Interior provided the following information to our wallet: LV 2018 on the right of assembly The grounds for the prohibition of a meeting governed by law are set out in Article 13 of the Assembly Act. § (1) defines it. Pursuant to the provision cited, the prohibition of the assembly is only possible if it is reasonable to assume that the assembly directly endangers public security or public order to an unnecessary and disproportionate extent, or involves unnecessary and disproportionate harm to the rights and freedoms of others. The content of the notification and the statement by the applicant in accordance with Article 11 of the Assembly Act. On the basis of the consultation provided for in Section 2 of this Article, the Budapest Police Department, acting under the authority of the assembly authority, has taken a decision on the basis of the legal provisions in force. It should be noted that, in respect of the registrations received on 23 July 2022, there was no need to apply to competing events, as provided for in Article 12 of the Act. The rules set out in Section 2 of this Article. Please accept the Home Office's response. I would like to take note of what I have said. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-07-18-68	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. President Novák to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-69	Mr. Secretary, you didn't take half of your time frame, and I think there's plenty to say or explain, because last year, the Curia said that the police that you ran were trying to give justice to the propagandaists of the LGBTQP against us pro-normalists, and tried to give them the way to Andrássy, and at the Curia we could only get it back. But why doesn't the police under your control ban this parade? After all, the definition of disorderly conduct of deviants of the homosexual propaganda procession is also exhausted by a number of flagrantly anti-communicative behaviors capable of causing scandal in others. Secretary of State, you know those words, don't you? I was quoting the definition of misdemeanor, misdemeanor. In addition, the LGBTQ propaganda on the street for children is supposed to be banned, but why not? Why didn't you answer these? I can't accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-18-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear House, fellow Members, Congressman Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. In the middle of the livelihood crisis, does the government deprive people in poorer areas of the possibility of community service? It's an address. [[Péter Ungár to László Toroczkai and Előd Novák: The competition is great!]] Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to press reports, the number of people employed in the public works programme can be drastically reduced in small settlements, so much less people will be able to get jobs from September. I was informed of the matter and it turned out that the problem was not only affecting small settlements, for example, according to my information, the framework numbers would also be drastically cut back in Salgótarján. There are regions in Hungary today where public work is the only way to survive, since there is no market-based workplace nearby. There is no aid left to help families survive, so there really is only community service left as one option for deprived people. If they take the community service away from them, what do they have left? In 2012, the Orbán government reduced the support to replace employment from HUF 28 500 to HUF 22 800 in order to make public work more attractive. It's been this since then, so it's been 22 800 forints for ten years now. Even then, it was very modest support, and now it's almost worthless. This is how it became particularly in poorer regions, where the level of industrialisation is lower, and public work is the only option, unfortunately. Let's be clear. The public wage is only HUF 66 500 per month net, it is not possible to make a living, but it is some kind of help to make a living. According to press reports, that's what the government would take away from a lot of people. This would make little budget savings, but it would take away work-based livelihoods from the families concerned. In particular, it is shocking that the government would withdraw the possibility of community service from many at a time when we are facing a serious, deepening crisis and jobs will be lost. On 11 July, the Government decided or decree that the expenditure allocation of the Start Work Programme could be exceeded by HUF 7 billion or that the provision that it could not participate in public work for more than 10 years during the emergency period would be suspended. However, it is not possible to see the specific consequences of this decision or regulation. Does these recent measures of the government mean that the mayors will soon receive another letter about a higher public work framework? And if so, will these numbers reach the current framework numbers? Besides, it would be good to know specifically what the government's short-term and long-term objective is with the public works programme. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2022-07-18-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you are, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Because of a lack of resources or a lack of status, no job seeker has fallen short of the possibility of public employment, this has been the case in the past, it is the case now and so in the future, the government will provide all the resources for this, as it has done in previous years, and last time the government has decided to provide additional resources precisely so that we can always ensure this possibility everywhere. [[15.30]] In fact, we have also adopted a change in legislation that would have allowed those who have been in public employment for ten years, according to the original legislation, to fall out of this system after ten years, and we have accepted the amendment to stay in after 10 years; it is precisely so that they can make a living, not on aid, but on public employment wages, which is higher than the level of aid, and it is important that if we build a labour-based society, then someone can make a living, not on aid, but at least on public employment wages. In recent years, we have provided the public employment framework for hundreds of billions of forints, and we are doing it now, and we will continue to do so in the future, and no one will ever fall away from this opportunity because of a lack of resources. At the same time, I was pleased to hear your words, which were positive about public employment, at least you said words of appreciation for it. Because in the last 10 to 12 years, those of you who have been sitting among them have not supported this, when they have spoken, they have not spoken so about public employment, they have condemned it, they have refused that it is unnecessary, it is not good, they have said all kinds of signs, and we have said that it is important, because it will help us find a place in the normal workplace afterwards, and it has been so in recent years. But imagine that neither the then socialists, nor the then LMPs, nor the members of the Jobbik faction supported with their vote that this form of public employment should be established. Convince them after 12 years that this was a useful step after all. This has also contributed to the fact that today there are 1 million more people working than a decade ago. In 2010, the number of people employed was somewhere below 3.7 million, and now it is around 4.7 million, so there are 1 million more people working. At the time, the employment rate was 57 percent in 2010, and by now it has climbed above 73 percent, and unemployment has fallen to 3.5 percent. The sixth worst was the proportion of Hungarians exposed to poverty and social exclusion, and now the ninth best value. If you look at Eurostat, you will be preceded by Sweden, France, Belgium, Malta, Portugal, Ireland, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Germany, Croatia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Spain, Greece, Romania and Bulgaria. So, thanks to public employment, we have also managed to improve the fact that people's safety of life is better, as public employment wages are more than aid, but, of course, the minimum wage, which is much higher than public employment wages, is an incentive in this system, and compared to aid, public employment wages are a great step forward, and from there, the minimum wage or the minimum wage is a great step forward. In 2018, around 135 thousand people made use of this form of employment; in 2021 around 88 thousand people, and today about 74 000 to 74 500 people, are using it. As I said, it was therefore very important to create public employment in the field of work-based society and the fight against poverty. We have maintained this despite every left-wing attack to this day. Obviously, there was a greater demand in the early 2010s, greater unemployment, greater poverty than today, but regardless of that, there are about 75,000 people who still have a livelihood, so we will maintain it, and we will continue to maintain it in the future in order to ensure the safety of all Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask the Member to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-75	Thank you for your answer. That's pretty much what I expected. I think we can agree on one or two things. [[Bence Rétvári: He always says that, but he doesn't accept it.]] There's nothing I can do about what's been going on in the past, and the only thing I don't understand is your response. I don't know what to do with who was sponsored or supported in the era ahead. [[Bence Rétvári: It's important!]] I'm motivated by what's going on today, and today's people who make their living under a community service program should be safe. I hope that the community service can be converted to something higher sooner or later, but at the moment we see what is waiting for us, so it is very necessary that the public work programme is in order. The only reason I can't accept the answer is because in the answer, we came up with things that I don't think belong here. In the future, I hope that we will have a communication for today's Hungarian people that is about the present and the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-07-18-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry. It's an address. I would like to inform you that Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett, please.
u2022-07-18-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, How long are you going to lead people around, and when are you going to admit that the time of cheap petrol is over, and that the energy crisis will stay with us in the longer term? Because of the artificially low fuel prices you maintain today, during an energy crisis, petrol consumption in our country is a good chance that we will soon face a shortage of fuel. Zsolt Hernádi MOL-leader also publicly warned about this. Sooner or later, no matter how hard they try, reality will catch up with you: the price of food, other products and services, rising fuel prices; even Antal Rogán's propaganda industry will not be able to cover it. In the decade of the energy crisis, it is very important to reduce people's mobility needs, for example through teleworking, the expansion of human infrastructure and from driving to public transport. Climate seasoning would be an essential element of the green transition with energy efficiency in mind. At present, however, with the petrol stop, the government is supporting the refueling of luxuries instead of green transport modes. On the other hand, the introduction of a climate lease is socially fair, because it primarily helps people in the most difficult situations, and the richest are able to use it when they give up on the use of cars. According to the decision proposal submitted by the LMP, we would introduce a three-month transitional period of air conditioning, which would apply to all Community transport services and would cost HUF 5 thousand per month. As opposed to you, who are also pushing proposals that fundamentally subversive people's lives through Parliament in one day, such as the Kata last week, we are in favour of social dialogue, so our proposal also includes the decision of people to decide on the climate lease in a social consultation after the expiry of the three-month probation period. We have therefore put forward a proposal to help you tackle the energy crisis effectively, to drastically reduce air pollution that causes the premature death of many people, and to reduce urban congestion, which is in the interest of all motorists and those who vote for public transport, so everyone would win with the climate lease. You know that, because the government is already looking at the model introduced and well-functioning in Germany. There, 23 out of 26 cities surveyed decreased congestion after the introduction of the lease, and the commuters arrived at their workplace earlier in the morning. Madam Secretary of State replied repeatedly to our questions that the government had already begun to examine the introduction of a reduced lease. It is incomprehensible why we do not hear anything about the results, although other ideas can be presented and even introduced in 24 hours. Dear Secretary of State, Can we expect you to agree on our resolution proposal? Do you share the results of the investigation mentioned? Do you give free access to climate change and greening, or are we running helplessly into the ever-increasing energy crisis and climate crisis? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-07-18-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think it has been clear over the past period that we agree on a lot of climate policy, environmental protection and transport issues, and that support for transport and public transport is of paramount importance to the Hungarian Government, and I have used a very constructive tone from the woman representing me, and this speech has not fully covered this. First of all, let me point out that you used the fact that the Hungarian government is leading people around, so I would like to point out that it was not this government who led people around; practically hundreds of tricks were left in power before 2010 and that the country was practically bankrupt. So I would like to draw your attention to this in any case, and I would like to point out what I also mentioned, that in 2019 the left was able to win in many settlements and cities, and it was practically possible to introduce new constructions, ticket and rentals. As far as I know, that hasn't happened yet. Obviously, with the outbreak of the Ukrainian war, there has been practically an energy crisis that no one has thought of, and let's say, Germany is now constantly talking about the problem of gas shortages. [[15.40]] We are in a situation where I think that we need to join forces here, in the Hungarian Parliament and in all the scenes and think together. This week the European Commission will also come up with its communication on the winter period. In addition to the energy crisis, the fuel stop, the gas stop, was specifically mentioned. I think that Congresswoman should not attack this because it is a huge help to families. Obviously, we are now in a summer period when, on the one hand, consumption has increased due to tourism and agricultural work. Of course, we consider it important that the most popular tourist destination in Hungary, Lake Balaton, can be reached as easily as possible through public transport. We've already talked about this. It is very important that we have introduced the price cap. I suppose it's just that if we hadn't done that, then you would probably be attacking us for the very reason that prices have gone dramatically, and you really think of a joke called "The Fox and the Wolf" when the rabbit is attacked even if it's wearing a hat, and even if it isn't. Here, we have talked a lot about climate policy goals, the program of the Green Bus, the 7500 electric cars, the rail upgrades. Here, over the last decade, we have upgraded 600 kilometres of railway track, electrified nearly 350 kilometers, and we are constantly raising the funds for the development of domestic railway infrastructure in the central budget. However, it is still important to know about the Green Bus programme that, in addition to increasing service standards, the program clearly improves local quality of life with cleaner air and quieter streets. With the ongoing procurements, the Volánbusz can operate the largest fleet of alternative-powered buses in Central Europe. There are currently more than half a hundred environmentally sound buses and hundreds of vehicles are being purchased. He also mentioned extending the possibility of teleworking. I think there's some very good news here. I would like to draw attention to the fact that on 1 June 2022 emergency measures in the event of a coronal virus epidemic have risen to a legislative level in relation to teleworking. I would ask the Member to support the Government's ideas in the spirit of constructive dialogue, as has been the case so far. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-18-80	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-81	If we're living with fairy tales, then I've thought of another story, the cricket and the ant, and most of all, the cricket. I think that's an analogy to the gas stop right now. So the 480-forint petrol price is somewhere, after all, leading people. This may be the discount price for the population, which makes them feel that everything is okay now, but we know it's not okay. What else is the problem? Climate rent could help those in need more effectively and on a social basis, Hungarian families, and would also result in much greater savings. Besides, there is also a slight error in the fact that new types of discount tickets have not been introduced, since the time-based ticket has already appeared in Budapest. So we're still asking when the air-conditioning pass will be introduced. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer to that again, so I'm not taking your answer. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-18-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Since you have not accepted the Secretary of State's reply, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Tamás Szeberényi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: what would the adoption of the budget amendments submitted by the Left mean for the budget of 2023? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, You will hear the answer from Deputy Secretary András Tállai. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-83	Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, As usual, the government submitted the budget in the spring session again this year, regardless of whether the parliamentary election was held in April this year. I believe that predictability is a value that market players think is important, because with the adoption of the budget in July, there is almost half a year for everyone to prepare for next year's changes. In such an uncertain international economic situation, this predictability is even more appreciated. At the same time, I think it is worth taking stock of the offer of the left to the Hungarian people, of course, in addition to the fact that they sometimes try to block the transport of a big city by pissing people off. Both the Fidesz fraction and the government took a close look at the content of the 435 amendments submitted by the left. Unfortunately, after 12 years, like the Bourbons, they learned nothing and forgot nothing. It is clear from the content of their amendments that the tax policy that people have been sending out for the many times that they do not want it, they do not want it. They did not understand that the Hungarian people did not ask for their tax increase proposals. It is a very important fact that the combined adoption of the amendments would cost the budget thousands of billions of forints. This is very far from responsible thinking, or you could say that sometimes there are elections, and then they are very important, very far from governing powers. There is no doubt that the corporate tax would be raised again, and they would also lobby, introduce multi-key taxation, and they would not hide it, and again make the middle class impossible, as they did before 2010. In view of the above, I ask the Deputy Minister: what would the adoption of the budgetary amendments tabled by the Left mean for the 2023 budget? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-85	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is a very important message from the minority and opposition groups to an amending proposal for a budget, as it sends a message to voters on how they think about our common money, how and how they want to spend it. It is therefore very important for this year's budget amendments to be examined, that, while the left-wing parties, together with the election on 3 April, started on a common list, how they think, think jointly about the amendments submitted to the budget, or that cooperation ended on 3 April. Well, if we look at this, we see that the left-wing parties, who started on a list, have absolutely not agreed on the proposals for amending the budget, because as many factions as there are so many such amendments. But they have one thing in common that you said, and it is that the budget deficit would be increased by 3240 billion if we adopted 435 amendments made by opposition parties. This would increase the budget deficit by 5% to 8.5 percent. It's unmanageable. This is unacceptable by the European Union. The attempt to bring the budget deficit below 3 percent is not of interest to opposition parties. He is only interested in sending a bill of amendment to voters to make them popular, while otherwise endangering the stability of public finances and the vulnerability of our economy. They ignore the provisions of the Public Finance Act for the provision of reserves, as they spend, for example, several times. But these amendments ignore our commitments in international treaties Paks II. or the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. But perhaps the most important and most serious thing that we cannot agree on from a government point of view is the emergence of tax increases in the proposals for amending the budget. [[15.50]] With the carbon tax, they would like to collect 200 billion more tax revenues, and with the increase in corporate tax, they would put an extra 2360 billion in the hands of businesses. Thus, they absolutely do not take into account what investors say about Hungary's budget, the investments that already operate here in Hungary, and those that might bring new capital to the country, and would significantly increase people's faces. So what I can say is that these amendments are irresponsible, inconsistent and unacceptable, as the Parliament and its committees have already rejected a significant part of these amendments. Overall, we therefore propose to Parliament that the amendments made by the opposition parties should not be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-86	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I will now ask Mr Gyula Tamás Szeberényi to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister.
u2022-07-18-87	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, The opposition left-wing parties continued to pursue a similar policy in the government even before 2010. Admitting this is the sentence of the famous speech that says that we have committed a mischief that has never been done in Europe. This clearly concerned budgetary policy in particular. Obviously, you can see that this thinking, this policy, has not been changed. I am very pleased with the attitude of the government and the decisions of the committees, and, of course, the Fidesz faction will not support these proposals, because it will not benefit the country. Of course, I accept your answer. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-88	Thank you very much. Dear House, The congressman accepted the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development:. The government is in favour of Hungarian families in times of energy crisis caused by war? It's an address. Congressman András Aradski has the floor. I would like to inform you that Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer you. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-89	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We're worried about watching the war next door. Our concern does not decrease even if we look at what is happening on the western part of Europe. I am thinking, first of all, of how the sanctions imposed by the European Union and its allies harm the states that imposed the sanction, including Hungary, Hungary and the families living here, with a European unity in mind. Worrying news is coming from Western Europe, namely that from Europe's leading and richest countries, Germany, the news is that the heating of public buildings is being reduced, and even some of the news is that Germany's largest private housing company reduces the temperature of its tenant's heating to 17 degrees Celsius between 23 hours and 6 hours. A housing cooperative has already introduced a more drastic measure to ensure that hot water can only be provided to residential users between 4-6, 11-13 and 17-21 hours. The managing director of the German City Association made a proposal that the night-off of traffic lights, the closure of hot water in museums and sports centers, maximizing air conditioning cooling and lighting of historic buildings [[Sic!]] There are cities where management has taken control of itself and saves in a unique way. In Lahn-Dill district, for example, hot water will be stopped in 86 schools from mid-September, after 23 hours there will be only 70 percent public lighting, and in Düsseldorf the Münster-Therme spa-wellness complex will be temporarily closed. According to one of the largest European regional gas suppliers, Berlin's leader, for example, the following are possible: An elderly or sick person may need 2 degrees more in his home than a young and fit person with 2 sweaters, with a small step through the winter. But it is logical that we all need to reduce the temperature and see where our pain threshold is. It's best to shorten the washing of your hands. Dear Secretary of State, According to the German real estate development company association, the increase in energy prices will result in significant additional costs in Germany; they may add an annual additional cost of 1.5 million. It is not difficult to miss that all these measures make everyday life impossible for families. Therefore, I ask Mr Secretary of State, Hungary should expect similar measures in the following winter.
u2022-07-18-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-91	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There is no question as to the legality of your question. [[Sic!]] . Energy prices and inflation have skyrocketed throughout Europe and the world. Russian oil and gas taps for Europe can be closed at any time, either periodically or permanently. So there is an energy emergency in Europe. In recent days, it has become clear that in the autumn-winter period there will not be enough gas in some countries of the European Union, and it is possible that the Nord Stream 1 pipeline will not start again, which will make Europe even more difficult. This is why it was necessary for the government to decide on measures to protect the energy supply of the Hungarian population and economy to announce the energy crisis. At the moment, Hungary's energy supply is guaranteed, we have and will have gas. Our oil supply has also been secured. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) The reduction of the rent remains for everyone to the extent of average consumption. However, last week, the government adopted a seven-point action plan. Details of this: Hungary increases domestic gas production from 1.5 billion cubic metres to 2 billion cubic metres. The government authorizes Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó to acquire new gas supplies. According to our calculations, it will be possible to purchase 700 million cubic metres before the start of the heating season. The government has imposed an export ban on energy and firewood. By the end of the year, the government will significantly increase the production of domestic lignite, i.e. coal mining. In this context, the Mátra power plant will restart its further blocks this year. To maintain the safety power supply, the government considers it necessary to examine the extension of the Paks I nuclear power plant's operating time. The government protects the reduction of the rent until the average consumption already mentioned. In addition, the government has convened the energy hazard operational tribe, which continuously analyses and evaluates the impact on the energy market. With these exceptional measures, most of which will enter into force in August, we will ensure that the country has enough energy in the winter and that the reduction in overhead costs remains sustainable. Honourable Congressman, There is only one solution to war inflation: peace. It would be nice if you could see that on the left. We need a truce and a trial as soon as possible. Hungary's position is clear: we want peace from the beginning. We also represent this in European fora. Now everyone can see that war is the worst thing for Europe. Until this happens, which we cannot say for sure, but the Government will do everything in its power to ensure that the measures mentioned by the Member in Germany are not taken in Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-92	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman to accept the reply of the Deputy Minister. Here you go. [[16.00]]
u2022-07-18-93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, the main issue of our energy supply and its security is that peace should come as soon as possible. But I also think it is important to underline what you have said that Hungary is trying to share, as far as possible, its potential for purchasing energy sources. In line with our energy mix, now, in this difficult situation, we have the opportunity to secure our energy supply from nuclear, green and fossil energy. This was driven by continuous energy visions to achieve this, whose main goal was to be independent of addiction. This philosophy is followed by what you have said, and while stressing that peace is in mind, I accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-94	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance:, Hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for the lifeline, will the government save the cataclysms? It's an address. Honourable Member, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, will answer you. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian people are increasingly moaning about the burdens that the Orbán government has put on them. We know from Judit Varga that there are huge cuts in the budget, Márton Nagy was looking for a reduction in wages, and György Matolcsy was kind enough to tell us that there is a tax increase of a thousand billion in the budget, not to mention the bulldozing of Katács. This is where I note that according to your new communication brochure, at least so far there has been a kata, and as if there were no simplified business tax options before that. Well, there was, in the period 2003-2010, it was called eva, a simplified business tax, which existed during the global crisis of 2008-2009, and that was also eliminated by you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It hasn't stopped.]] You've eliminated the Eva and you're burying the Kata. This is all an increase in overhead and this is all making the burden more difficult. All this is added to the fact that more and more money is being spent on us and the money is being taken out, more is being paid for by the postal service, and multinational companies, ignoring the unbelievable government, are burdening people with the extra burden of the Orbán government, in principle, intended for them. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, None of this happened before April 3rd. You said everything was fine, that you'd protect everything and everyone. You have deceived people, ruined our country, Hungary. Hundreds of thousands of families today don't know how they're going to pay taxes, teachers and health workers have said that there's not going to be a wage increase, pensioners are throwing alms, which are far from covering the cost of shopping and medicines. This is also a tax increase, and this is an increase in costs, as is the fact that food is slowly priceless. You, too, are experiencing fundamental indignation about the grinding of Katács businesses, which is also a tax increase and an increase in costs. I ask Mr Secretary of State: when at least in the case of Katás businesses will they start a meaningful consultation with interest-promoting organisations and civilians, seeing that chaos must be reduced and that this is not the way to treat hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people concerned. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-18-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to make a political confrontation with you, as you know that the kata has existed since 2012, has more than ten years of history in the Hungarian tax system, and when we have created this very simple form of taxation, your party has not supported this. They said that this does not belong in this Hungarian tax system and does not help businesses. So if it had been up to you, then this system, this so-called cata system, would not exist, and they would not have been able to pay such a favourable tax in the last ten years. The aim of the Kata was to give entrepreneurs, businesses, who supply directly to the population or sell products, a favourable tax option. Since the beginning of the Kata, the full-time entrepreneur was paid a public burden of HUF 50,000 per month. When this started, the minimum wage did not reach 100,000 forints. Now, after ten years, the amount of the kata is 50,000 forints, and the minimum wage is 200,000 forints. It is clear that this reduced public burden was also very favourable for those who did not do the work of the original purpose, but, for example, bill companies. By the way, out of the 450,000 clicks, about 300,000 clicks are billing to some company right now. So the number of companies around 100,000 who will meet the original goal, who will still be able to choose the kata and choose the very simple form of taxation, as only revenue records need to be kept and the public budget will have to be paid up to HUF 50,000 in total after 1 September. What about people who can't pay taxes like that? There's an opportunity for them. In particular, the situation of those who did this in a complementary activity was resolved, i.e. they paid 25 thousand forints a month. They find the way, for example, in flat-rate taxation, that it is essentially without a public burden, with minimum taxation, because flat-rate taxation has cost ratios, 40%, 80% or 90 percent, and it is only due for the remaining revenue. But the same is true for businesses who do not do side jobs, or are retired, they can also choose flat-rate taxation, because here they really have to pay the public square for the minimum wage, which is equal to 93,000 forints a month compared to the minimum wage, in proportion to the ratio of 200,000 forints per month, is exactly the same as when this catapult tax system started. I think that we should not create hysteria, but think, learn about the opportunities offered by tax laws, and choose which is best for everyone in the next two months. Everyone will find the right solution for him, and he will be able to continue his business. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-18-98	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman to accept the answer. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State that he says that we should not be alarmed, so I would like to point out that Gergely Gulyás promised on a Government Info that there would be a broad social consultation on such matters, which was promised to the European Union. This was said by a nice lie tsunami called Government Info, and then, two days later, this decree came out that 450 thousand people's tax forms would be abolished in the middle of the summer, whoosh, as they were before. So we're not alarming you, but that's what happened, 450,000 people from one day to the next were confronted with the execution of the tax system according to which they had existed and functioned. And as I indicated in my first speech, you also executed the Eva and executed the Kata, so everyone and every system where it could have been taxed in a simplified manner. There is panic here, there is chaos, because you have ruined the Hungarian budget and ruined Hungary, and now you need tax revenue at all costs. That's what this is about, and that's why people protest. I can't accept the answer. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-18-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the interpellations. Now it's time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Lot. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question, "What are you talking about, Minister?" It's an address. Madam Member, Minister, due to his absence, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Lot. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh has the floor. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2022-07-18-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Once upon a time, if we didn't have money, we'd whip up a juice. Today, if we whip up a juice, we don't have any money. I'm afraid I didn't think of this witty comparison. It goes from laptop to laptop on the Internet, like it used to be with folk songs. However, his truth, of the luxurious ingredients, was 50 sausages, 60 sausages and 60 bacon, 65 eggs, 75 percent onion was more expensive in May than it was five years ago. And tomatoes, peppers, and bread cost twice as much. In a quarter of a century, we have grown accustomed to the cutting-edge inflation that we are experiencing today, and we have not missed it now. But what do we expect, if the President of the Central Bank boasts that he has no exchange rate target, he has only an inflation target. So if you don't see the connection between the forint's exchange rate and inflation, that's a big problem. However, it is simple, if the average of all goods is three quarters of an import, then the import price and the price of the product increase with the weakening of the forint. You are now trying to make the country believe that inflation is due to the war next door, but that is not true, Mr Secretary of State. High inflation has been with us for a year, already in April last year, over 5 percent, 6 percent in October, 7 in January, 8 in January, even though there was no war at the time, and your flame-spoken publicist even said to the TV camera that Russia wouldn't attack Ukraine, an idiot knows that. No, Mr. Secretary, this isn't war, it's inflation in Orbán, and it's because you're doing it. Minister Judit Varga [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] he also explained why, when he said to himself that there would be very big cuts in the budget. Mr. Secretary, who do you think you're kidding again? ! [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary András Tállai responds, please.
u2022-07-18-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We don't think anyone's stupid, but let me ask you one thing. Imagine yourself speaking in the Polish Parliament, where inflation is above 15 percent or speaking in the Lithuanian Parliament, where inflation is above 20 percent, or in any Central European country where inflation is higher than 11,7 percent in Hungary, will this amount also refer to inflation in Orbán, or has Viktor Orbán made inflation in these countries, all over Europe and even all over the world? ! I don't think anyone's gonna believe that. And his view is that the government is not doing anything about inflation: it is just doing something about other countries. It is true that you are squeamish about the introduction of price stops, but you have stopped the price increase on the products on which it was introduced. This is particularly sensitive with regard to fuel and certain food products. Or if you look at the interest rate stop, what effect it has, it also reduces the burden on people. I will either mention the 13th month pension of pensioners, or now, in the days, you have received an extra 3.9 percent increase, or an increase in income in the workplace, which exceeds inflation. If we add this up, we see that, yes, the government is fighting inflation, against inflation, and is on the side of the population. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-104	Thank you very much. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder, please.
u2022-07-18-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have bad news for Mr Secretary of State, I am not a Polish or Lithuanian Member of Parliament, but a Hungarian, and neither in Bürgüzfalva nor in Abadszalók nor anywhere, if the government applies the petrol stop. Otherwise, the opposition had a completely different suggestion, which we think would have been better. Mr. Secretary of State is very proud that a 3.9 percent pension increase has been delivered to pensioners these days. In the beginning, in my question, I said that the ingredients of the discount rose by a minimum of 40%, and, of course, it is important that the pricestops are also determined by the government for different foods, but I think that is not enough. By the way, my question was about what you'd like to do, and I didn't hear anything about it in the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Secretary of State, It is quite simply a shame that you, ruining the Hungarian economy with inflation in Orbán, completely crashing the forint, is the only thing you can do for the Hungarians. Execute the kata, eliminate the cost reduction [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I was in the country on the weekends, and people are shaking to see what happens when they get their first utility gas and electricity bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
u2022-07-18-107	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Shame isn't that. Do you know what shame is? When you were unable to deal with the crisis in 2008-2009 and increased the number of unemployed to 12 percent, you exceeded 500 000 unemployed and took away the 13th month pension from pensioners. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You haven't returned it for 12 years.]] But I assure you, I am proud, yes, of 3.9 percent. At the beginning of the year there was 5 percent, now 3.9, and in September we will review it again, and if necessary, pensioners will receive a further supplement to the extent that the value of the buyer remains of pensions. Yes, this government makes meaningful decisions and makes efforts to make people feel as little as possible about inflation and price increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Well, hardly, Secretary of State.]]
u2022-07-18-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Jakab and Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I respectfully ask Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian present to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-07-18-109	Mr President, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister, thank you for your patience.
u2022-07-18-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Mr László György Lukács, leader of the Jobbik faction, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? .. Your Honour, Chief of Staff.. I would like to inform you that, due to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has appointed Deputy Minister. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Dr. László György Lukács nods.]] Thank you so much for signaling me. Mr. László György Lukács, leader of the group, please. [[President Novak enters the Chamber and takes up his seat as his representative. He opens his laptop with an inscription on the back and a red arrow pointing towards Dr. László György Lukács.]]
u2022-07-18-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Many of the members of the government are playing away with the Cathedral Act, and I am particularly pleased that, when it comes to such a serious matter, when we are dealing with the livelihood of people, with the inability of katás entrepreneurs, with virtually unlimited increases in overhead costs, they take the situation to this humorous level. I would like to congratulate him on this performance, which is certainly a little better than the fact that the most paid political spouse of all time is sitting next to me in the person of Dóra Dúró and Előd Novák, who may even earn more than their own party when they go home at night and look at their cash register. But to talk about the Kata, because the most important thing is not the theme of the First Novak, the thing is...
u2022-07-18-112	My dear Mr. Group Leader, just because this personal issue doesn't belong to what you're about to say.
u2022-07-18-113	That's right, so let's get to the attitude of the clicks. The government played to get away with the vote of the Cathedral Act because there was no minister in there who could press a button, they didn't give an opinion, we don't know if they would have voted yes or no for this law; neither Mihály Varga nor Judi Varga, but not even the Balázs Orbán didn't press a button here. [[16.20]] Therefore, we do not know what the government ultimately wants and what it represents in relation to the Kata and its inability to do so. We believe that people owe this expression of opinion. People declare an opinion, there are thousands of them, tens of thousands of them on the bridges, László Parragh gave an opinion, who we expected in his speech that he would send back the 5 thousand forints he had illegally recorded from them, because he did not defend them, but you and László Parragh did not give an opinion in which he would stand up for these people. However, it also seems that the answer cannot be sunk away, Mr. political director, Mr. Secretary of State, this is an opportunity for you to say, in place of the ministers, that you would vote and that the ministers would vote on the Kata, and that it may not be possible for them to kill the taxpayers. And we're curious how they have the courage to correct the mistake they've just made. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-18-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Balázs Orbán does not answer you, but András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State. You have the floor. [[Sándor Font: That will also be a good answer!]]
u2022-07-18-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, Well, congratulations on your great appointment. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We are chosen, not appointed!]] We wish for effective work, but I suggest that you do not make such speeches when you can ask the government, do not deal with representatives of the other party, or with a member of the government who is not answering the question. But it's just a piece of advice, because I don't need a lot of answers, because he said the least about Kata, and he was talking about who wasn't here in the vote. It is the responsibility of the majority of the governors to ensure the parliamentary majority, the majority of Parliament in the legislative process, and this was ensured. This law was unanimously voted by the majority of the governors, so there may be no doubt as to how the Members of Parliament who are not present would have voted. Yes, we are united in this, because we are returning to the original purpose of the Cata Code. The original goal was to make taxation easy, easy for people with little administration and little public burden who provide services or supplies directly to the population. This law allows the public exclusively to carry out this activity in exchange for a public burden of HUF 50,000 per month. It is likely that one quarter or perhaps more of the companies that are currently voting for Katát will re-choose this, and that will bring us back to the objective that we set in 2012 in relation to this law. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-18-116	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Mr László György Lukács is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-117	It is very talkative that Mr. Secretary of State is also playing to get away with it, but now we can at least see him say that he represented the government, that all the members of the government who could have pushed the button, but for some reason he didn't, would have voted to abolish this positive form of kat. Instead, I propose to you that you accept those proposed by the profession, professional organisations, such as the Medical Chamber, the Bar Association, the Health Trade Association, there was virtually no professional organisation who would not stand up for its own employees to defend the Kata and speak out against your amendment of the law. So at least accept their intention, or now ask the President of the Republic to finally sign this bill within the five days available to her, or we will see you here for an additional examination in the coming time. After all, it seems that if Madam President of the Republic did not agree with you, it would have been in vain that the government had voted, or had pressed a very button, that we would be working overtime here, and that overtime would be about how we would change and repeatedly normalize the catalog proposal that was able to best help small entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-18-118	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-119	I would also suggest to you, as I did to your allied partner earlier, the DK speaking Member, that you help people in how to proceed, because tax laws are changing. This type of regulation will change after ten years, it will be stricter, fewer people will be able to make use of this option, but in the Hungarian tax system there are opportunities to study the system of flat-rate taxation, for example, or to learn how to tax in a normal individual enterprise, or how a deposit company will tax, then believe that everyone will find the right way to tax that does not yet represent a significant increase, to ensure the operation of their business. But if we keep him in fear and create hysteria, what you're doing, it's probably not gonna be a good thing. I urge everyone to look for it and find their own potential in the Hungarian tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-120	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Members of András Fekete-Győr and Ferenc Gelencsér, Members of the Momentum, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How did we get here?" It's an address. Dear Ferenc Gelencsér, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2022-07-18-121	Mr President, I'd like to wait with respect, Prime Minister.
u2022-07-18-122	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr. Group Leader, that the Prime Minister will have to answer you at the next hour of immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is this dilettious improvisation on the part of the government? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I respectfully ask Mr. Group Leader to accept the person of the responding party or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2022-07-18-123	Thank you, I accept.
u2022-07-18-124	Thank you very much. Mr. Bertalan Tóth has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Director, This new address is difficult, Mr. Director. I asked Mr Orbán, Balázs Orbán answers, so, Mr. Director Orbán, then I ask you what this dilettious improvisation on the part of the government is. Last Wednesday Minister Gergely Gulyás and Government Commissioner Szilárd Németh announced that the reduction in the current form would be over, and then Szilárd Németh also said that the current market price would make the electricity bill nearly seven times more expensive than it is now over the average consumption; so to date, we do not know the details. The announcement made an understandable uproar, as you deceived your constituents, lied to them when you promised not to touch the bills. Ten days ago, even your name relative, Viktor Orbán, said that the reduction of the rent would certainly not be bothered, and the Minister and the Commissioner of the Government announced that the reduction was over. I'm sure you're aware that Paks could power the entire population. Paks produces electricity for 12 forints, right, in 2020 the domestic population used electricity at 11.73 gigawatt hours, while the nuclear power plant produced much more, 16.1 gigawattors, and you know that this cost 11.5 forints. Dear Director, My respectful question is why the government wants to give the Paks electricity at world market prices. In addition to double-digit inflation, the euro exchange rate of 400 HUF, why do they want to impose a separate tribute on people? Why is Szilárd Németh a liar and a threat to the world market price when the Paks electricity has always been given at 11-12 HUF in recent years? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Political director Balázs Orbán will answer you. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, You are aware that the war going east of us affects Europe's energy security, energy supply and prices in a decisive way. You often pretend to ignore this fact, but it is still a fact that every country is struggling with war inflation, with the rise in energy prices and the question of whether it will be enough gas, enough energy in the winter period. [[16.30]] Consequently, Hungary's Government had to act, we guarantee energy security, and we have introduced seven measures in addition to the introduction of the energy crisis, and we believe that it is still the policy of the pricestops and the reduction of energy prices that are taking off throughout Europe that remains the only effective solution. These are the policies that you, in previous months, did not support, but constantly attacked from different sides, with different approaches. I propose that you read again the statements made by your candidate for Prime Minister, the candidate for President of the Republic. We believe that these measures are important and we believe that these measures should be maintained. Even though energy prices are fading, the reduction in overhead costs remains for everyone to the extent of average consumption. This means nearly HUF 159 thousand, almost HUF 2 million a year to help all families. I find it odd to note your comment on the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, because you know that unfortunately, the entire power supply of Hungary from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant cannot be managed, and certainly not that your political allies want to shut down that nuclear power plant. So perhaps we should change our policy first. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and then it is possible to talk about how Paks can be expanded, how in this respect, let us say, together with the Hungarian opposition, government parties should fight at international level, which has not been done so far, because you attacked him where you were not ashamed, the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and the extension of operational time. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-128	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You didn't answer my question. I'd say it's a gangster, a warbaby, but to live with a classic, it's a blow job we've heard here. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who's classic?]] I specifically said that the Hungarian population consumes 11.73 gigawattors and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant produces 16.1 gigawattors. So the Hungarian population could easily be supplied at this price of HUF 11-12. Therefore, I respectfully ask again why Pakson's 12 HUF electricity is being provided at world market prices, and why they want Hungarian people to pay for this cost. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is here, as far as I know, it's a domestic resource, not at the mercy of international markets. Why can't they give the power at the same price as before? Why do they want to profit on Hungarian families? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-07-18-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr. Balázs Orbán is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2022-07-18-131	Mr. Team Leader still doesn't understand. We do not give it at world market prices, this is what the reduction of the rent is about; the reduction is about not giving it at world market prices, but the Hungarian budget grants millions of HUF to all families. And by the way, it's weird for me that you're suggesting that we impose on other types of consumers. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: I didn't recommend it! Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] indeed, even higher energy prices, which would lead to job losses. So I am shocked to hear it, but I note that the Hungarian Socialist Party proposes that, let us say, the costs for the production of basic food should continue to rise and jobs should be lost. But we can't do this. I'm sorry. There could be a unity front here, for example, to take joint action against the Brussels sanctions policy, because there really are companies that profit from this situation, these foreign, primarily Western-owned energy companies, which are the winners of both the sanctions policy and the war situation. They cannot do this in Hungary, because we take extra profit by means of so-called windfall taxis. But it seems that this does not mean anything to a once-ex-left party, it still wants to burden the population and jobs and businesses. We don't want to go on this road. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-132	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: 'Do you have the courage, Prime Minister? It's an address. Madam Vice President, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Balázs Orbán appointed a political director to respond. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2022-07-18-133	I want a personal response from Prime Minister.
u2022-07-18-134	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Dear House, The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Did you learn this from Gyurcsány? It's an address. Madam Vice President, Due to the absence of Prime Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed a political director to respond. [[On Dóra Dúró's mark:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Vice-President Dóra Dúró should take the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, There will be no austerity, the custom of left-wing governments said Viktor Orbán in the election campaign and after the election campaign. Szilárd Németh said just a month ago that we would maintain the household rent reduction. Then came the black soup, and it turned out that those sentences were lies. These sentences were spoken to both the Prime Minister and the government commissioner responsible for reducing the costs when there was war, there was inflation, there was an energy crisis and there were sanctions. You were aware of the situation, yet your politicians made these statements. Then the regime restrictions were announced, even unjustly, unprofessionally and cruelly. It means that average consumption is considered as a basis in a country where 35 percent of households are single-person households, and they do not think that, where appropriate, a household living in a family home, say, five-person or six-person households, will be affected by this announcement, the whole thing is simply a shame. You are punishing those who live in a family home, live in a large or multigenerational family, or burn exclusively with electricity. They do this in an environment and alongside a Hungarian economy, Mr.Policy Director, when the Audi, Mercedes and multinational trade chains carry out the same amount of money every year from Hungary as you have planned in your budget for the entire year. Do you think that's okay? Why don't you touch these multi-company companies? Why do they not have to bear greater burden from public burdens? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-18-136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The answer will be given by political director Balázs Orbán. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you can see, unfortunately, the war is not going to settle east of us, but the war is going to escalate, and the Russian-Ukrainian war, or the failed sanctions policy in Brussels, which, apparently, has not yet been decided to turn back on the leaders of Europe, the energy threat that we have not seen in all of Europe since memory. This is a situation which has put all Member States and all their parliaments on the face of unprecedented challenges. By the way, Prime Minister-designate, if you have listened to the inauguration speech, you have drawn attention to these situations and the gravity of the situation, and you have said that we must now also fight for what we thought was natural, that cheap energy is over, that the period of easy interest opportunities or money-making opportunities has ended throughout Europe, and that we must be prepared to defend our achievements over the past 12 years. That is why the government's commitment concerned this. We have made four commitments: to protect full employment, to protect family support, to protect the policy of pricestops and reductions, and to protect... [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Arstop...]] Yes, so that the protection of pricestops and the policy of reducing costs was also the fourth point of the government's priority. We stick to it and everyone continues to reduce their overhead to the limit of average consumption. This means 4.2 million out of 5.6 million consumers and 2.6 out of 3.5 million consumers in the case of gas supply. [[16.40]] What you're saying hasn't come up with the legal basis yet. What we can say is that we will think about electricity only for consumers, for large families and for those living in small settlements. Please note the detailed rules on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-138	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Mrs. Vice President. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Political Director, You've made a point of what I've asked you to do. So you were aware of the situation in the East and what was the situation in the energy market, but you said that you would maintain the household allowance. So Szilárd Németh lied! Let's have some kind of consequences. And yes, there will be pensioners whose overhead costs will exceed the pension they will receive while you stand by and watch the Audi, Mercedes and the trade chains take HUF 550 billion out of Hungary every year. Why do people have to pay the price of war? Why aren't these multi-company companies involved in public burdens? This would be a national policy, it would be protecting people, families and pensioners, not what you're doing. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-18-140	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder for the political director. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-141	What's wrong with what you're saying, Congresswoman? Of course, all such situations are not comfortable for anyone, and we would be most happy if the war were to end, if there were no war inflation, and the situation could remain the same as it has been for the last 12 years. The reason your speech isn't correct is because you don't put what's in the other pan. So you're supporting further radical tax increases, putting extra burdens elsewhere, and you're not bothered by the withdrawal of full employment for government purposes. So he claims that we should take government steps in respect of which we can keep the low price for consumers above a certain average consumption to use a left-wing demagogic turnaround, make the pool also available to fuel users, while assuming that there is not a 5 percent economic growth in Hungary, but a brutal recession, and jobs are disappearing. We think it's a policy you can't take. That's why we're going in this direction. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Political Director. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What is going on?" It's an address. Madam Member, because of the Prime Minister's absence, Balázs Orbán has appointed a political director to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2022-07-18-143	I'll take it.
u2022-07-18-144	Thank you very much for indicating to me that you accept the person you are responding to. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-145	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Political Director, The thing is, you have two-thirds of the majority here in Parliament, but, you know, there's another two-thirds in this country that doesn't equal your overpowerment, and the real two-thirds in this country are now being given by people who are losing their livelihood because of the catapult, who are going to pay huge bills and who can't go on vacation. A survey by the Publicus Institute showed that a quarter of those who started on vacation had to change their summer plans because of the price increase and the fall in the forint rate, and 60 percent of those surveyed decided not to go on vacation at all this year. However, I think that a week or two vacations in Hungary today, whether at Lake Balaton, should not belong to a luxury category. But because of your crappy economic policy, inflation has broken loose, people are threatened by their rustiness, and camping, free beaches have been closed and luxury apartment houses and expensive hotels have been built in their place. That's what they do and plan to do in Balatonaliga, they do in Keszthely, Balatonszemes and Tihany. While cutting down the trees on the shore of Lake Balaton, destroying the reeds and destroying the ecosystem of the lake, not only the two-handed workers but also the middle class are excluded from the lake, as the prices at Lake Balaton are already higher than on the Croatian coast. In addition, this Publicus survey was carried out early in July, when all the details of the brutal Orbán austerity package were not yet published, when they had not yet been found out about their rustiness, and at that time we did not even know that almost 400,000 people were raising their taxes and that they would abolish the Kata with a 45-day deadline. I therefore ask with respect why people are being paid for their bad governance, and why the Hungarian middle class is now being pushed into a serious livelihood crisis. I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-07-18-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to political director Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to continue to draw attention to the fact that we are dealing with an energy crisis and war inflation all over Europe. In this respect, the government is, of course, working on all diplomatic channels to turn events in a direction that is more likely to affect the end of the war rather than the length of the war, or we are also trying to force Brussels to change direction in sanctions policy. If there is peace, then inflation stops, if there is peace, then there is energy. The fact is that, of course, we do not expect support from the opposition side, but the fact that you have been constantly embracing the government's efforts in this direction for months, and in political terms, both in the campaign and after that, is fundamentally contrary to the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. So first of all, I suggest that you sweep your port, there should be a change of direction, and if this happens, the Hungarian political department could join forces and act together, for example, in Brussels, to force a change of direction. If I listen to your speech correctly, you have two suggestions. On the one hand, the continuation of the aid policy instead of work; we have not supported it in the last 12 years, and we will not support it again. We believe in full employment and that people have jobs and adequate wages to support themselves and their families. In fact, you will continue to insist if I see your statements correctly in favour of your unreasonable energy proposals. If we accept what you've been suggesting for the last 12 years to close Paks and stop the Paks II investment, then do you know where we'd be? It'd be a lot worse. And do you know who would pay the price of that bad decision? Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. That's the first thing we should do to fix things on that side, and then we can get together. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-148	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is addressed to Ms Rebecca Szabó. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-149	Dear Director, And where would we be if, in the last 12 years, when they had two-thirds power, they had spent the money on energy efficiency renovations? Do you know where we would be if they hadn't stolen subsidies from the European Union, but gave them to people to insulate their homes, such as panels, with deep renovations? Then we shouldn't be so afraid of where the energy prices are right now, because they would know that much less energy is needed for heating. By the way, it is very funny when, after the fourth two thirds, they still say that the opposition acts like this. You're virtually omnipotent, you can do whatever you want! The only problem is that we are the only country in Europe who does not receive EU funding that would be due to us, since you refuse to accept even the European Public Prosecutor's Office and refuse to take the transparency and anti-corruption measures that would ensure that EU money is actually spent on the benefit of the population and not in your pocket. The truth is, people on the street can see that this is the result of your bad governance. There is no war inflation here, because inflation was already last fall, right? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: In fact, there is no war!]]
u2022-07-18-150	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the political director. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-151	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This isn't gonna be easy. In this way, we will not be able to draw close to each other, at least in terms of opinions, because the Member cannot answer fundamental questions. I would like to ask you now that you have considered, for example, your proposals in the field of energy over the past 12 years. For example, will you withdraw your proposals on stopping the Paks II investment and not even considering the extension of Paks I's running time? [[16.50]] Because if it weren't for Paks, energy prices and inflation would be skyrocketing. [[Rebecca Szabó: It's not that!]] Yes, that's it, Congresswoman. I understand that there is a two-thirds majority of the government, and of course the government is in place. [[Rebecca Szabó: Well...]] and will take the necessary steps, but the situation is that opposition representatives are not irresponsible either. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] So if you tell us to lock up Paks one day, then you say, [[Rebecca Szabó: I never said that! We didn't say that!]] To protect the families... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes, it is!]]
u2022-07-18-152	Congresswoman!
u2022-07-18-153	...from the rising energy prices, both are not possible at the same time. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-07-18-154	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Rebecca Szabó, I'm asking you very nicely not to interrupt, because I'm forced to reprimand you in accordance with the rules of the house, or to take some kind of unpleasant action for you that I wouldn't take from my heart. Thank you very much for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Members of the LMP, Antal Csárdi and Máté Kanász-Nagy, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who is it in your interest? It's an address. Dear Máté Kanász-Nagy Congressman, I respectfully ask, because of the Prime Minister's absence, Balázs Orbán has appointed a political director to answer, to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-07-18-155	Mr President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2022-07-18-156	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the next hour of immediate questions. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Péter Ungár, the leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who will pay the cost of the crisis? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Due to his absence, Prime Minister Balázs Orbán appointed a political director to respond. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2022-07-18-157	I'll take it, thank you.
u2022-07-18-158	Thank you very much. We're not going any further, the faction leader has indicated to me that he accepts the person who is responding. Mr. Péter Ungár, you have the floor. [[Sándor Szabó takes his place as notary.]]
u2022-07-18-159	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Balázs Orbán, The thing is, there are things that are numbers and facts that exist in the world. For example, the fact that Mercedes made a profit of EUR 41.55 million in Hungary in 2021 taxed 6 percent of it, the rest went back to Germany. It's a fact. After that, you have said to Hungarian small businesses that they are committing legal tax evasion with Kata. My respectful question would be that it is not the multinationals who commit legal tax evasion who do not participate in Hungarian public burdens. Last year, HUF 500 billion of corporate tax paid into the budget, MOL's profit was 300 billion in the last three months of last year. If you consider this fair or equal on any level, there are very big problems here, in my opinion. There is a crisis, and you say that euphemistically because of the Ukrainian-Russian war, in fact because of Vladimir Putin's military aggression, and this crisis raises a value choice for the Hungarian government: do they balance the Hungarian budget on the back of small businesses or on the back of German multinationals? You have made a clear decision to do it on the back of Hungarian small businesses, and you have made the decision that it is not possible to cause any harm to Mercedes, the German chemical industry or any German capitalist. My question, and please, instead of saying for the eighth time what we have had the opportunity to hear here, is to answer that you will have a government measure that will make Mercedes participate in the Hungarian public burden. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-07-18-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We expect the answer from political director Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-161	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I must say that I do not agree with you, because I see that most of the government decisions we have made here in the past 12 years are for the protection of the poor and the worst. Moreover, the costs of overhead and food costs are the most difficult for those belonging to the lowest income decylis. For example, the family support system through large families, the pricestop policy and the reduction of overhead costs are the most helpful for these social groups, which are most vulnerable. They will continue to be the biggest help in the future, because we also maintain the family support system, we have extended the pricestop policy, and the reduction of overhead costs will remain until the average consumption, and therefore the lowest petrol prices and energy prices will remain in Europe. So I think this is also a defendable position from the left. Although a number of left-wing governments in Western Europe would adopt these measures! With the other thing you're saying, my problem is that what you're proposing, or you're obviously not suggesting, is because you're putting it a little demagogic, but what you're proposing as a public policy decision would actually mean a brutal tax increase for producing companies, which would appear immediately in employment figures. So the problem is that, as a result of these measures, tens of thousands of people in Hungary would lose their jobs, we believe that this is not a viable way. It is important that Hungary remains an attractive target for investment, domestic and foreign investments, and this will be the reason why we can expect a 5 percent economic growth this year as well, from which we can also finance certain wage increases. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] from which we can finance the functioning of the state, and from which, by the way, the policy of reducing the cost of electricity can also be protected. Without it, the whole thing, with what you'd suggest, would collapse the entire system. We don't think we can go in that direction. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-162	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from the faction leader, please.
u2022-07-18-163	Then, if I understand correctly, the make-up person who, let's say, is billing for a movie shoot, who will be burdened by the burden that will make him appear as unemployed, so the cat has an impact on employment, and the Hungarian budget needs to be balanced. But it would be very dangerous for Mercedes to pay 9.5% instead of 6 percent, don't give it to God, 15 percent of its profits as a tax instead of taking everything to Germany. What's happening here is that they're taking money back to a capital-powered country from a weak country, and you're supporting it with your tax policy, and in order to finance it, they're bringing up the tax burden on small businesses. Therefore, a make-up artist or a hairdresser who is billing for a commercial should increase the tax burden, but let's say Mercedes should not increase its tax burden. Why is that? Because freedom fights are always in Hungary, never against Germany. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: That's right! Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-07-18-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder for the political director, please.
u2022-07-18-165	Thank you very much. If only they had been so enthusiastic about the introduction of the kata in 2012, as they are now arguing for it! LMP was already a member of Parliament. The original idea of the Kata is to be a favourable form of taxation for individual and small business operators providing retail services. This has developed a function that goes beyond that. In the present situation, it is not possible for large companies, such as the large companies that you criticize, to be able to employ people in a mass form, for example, by foreign-owned companies. So what we have undertaken: the kata remains, according to the original intentions, and even under more favourable conditions, the kata can be used. Those who are excluded from these conditions may continue to benefit from flat-rate taxation, kiva-, echo-, preferential form of taxation or work as an employee, also one of the most favourable in Europe. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] the use of forms of taxation, taxes and contributions. That's what we have to offer now. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-166	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Boglárka Illés, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Balázs Fürjes has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask you, accept your response.
u2022-07-18-167	I'll take it.
u2022-07-18-168	The congresswoman tells me that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Elijah Boglarka has the floor, please.
u2022-07-18-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The fallen Prime Minister's candidate on the left came back, saw me and fooled me again. He used to fool and call the voters of Fidesz stupid, despite the fact that, if not before, since 3 April, it may have been clear to him that from Matthew to Szombathely or from Miskolc to Hódmezővásárhely there are more than 3 million Fidesz voters. Thank you to the Esztergoms, the Yasboldogházis, the Field Tourists and the Saintendres for confirming this yesterday. [[17.00]] But then what happened to Peter Márki-Zay? Did the time stop? Not only didn't you learn anything from the election defeat, but you pick up where you really didn't stop? After all, one side of the coin is that it constantly insults voters simply because they didn't vote for it. But after insults and bullying people, you and your left-wing fellow politicians laugh about it? All this, while ignoring the obvious fact that, while the economy of all European countries is struggling with inflation, energy crisis due to war and failed Brussels sanctions policy, the Hungarian government is doing everything it can to protect the cost reduction, and he was the one who joined up with the failed left led by Gyurcsány, whose governance has doubled the price of gas to three times the price of gas and the price of electricity to double the price of these energy sources on the world market. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear Secretary of State, War conditions take place not only on the fronts, but also on the European economy. As the Prime Minister said, the European economy was shot not in the leg but in the lungs. The civilian government protects the population with unique measures, stands on the side of peace and advocates national unity. In this heightened mood, where people are concerned about their livelihood, I ask Mr. State Secretary, he accepted Péter Márki-Zay to provoke Hungarians against each other. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Well, the fourth time the left ran into the two-thirds glass door with amazing momentum and confidence, Péter Márki-Zay has an immeasurable role in that, so we could actually be grateful to him, and it is, as you say, that he cannot stop, as a rogue Duracell bunny, not stop what led to the known election on behalf of the left. There are no large numbers here now, but what I ask of you, dear left representatives, is that Peter Márki-Zay was shot up by you and set him on the field; he is your man, well, after Bertolt Brecht, let me ask you to stop Péter Márki-Zay, because seriously speaking, it is not good that in difficult times as a kind of blacksmith... there are blackmen in every war who use people, at the expense of the people, who can help you in politics with hatred and anger, and indeed, we would never take the courage of you, and we also try to give respect to you left-wing representatives, but we always give respect to left-wing voters, because they cannot help you to get what they receive from you. I think that judging each other's electoral camps, risking it, is not very democratic, and in fact, democracy, voters and voters are not respected by those who label their own voters in this way, because this weekend a socialist politician has set an example like the voters of his opponent, his political opponent, that is unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-172	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. In a crisis situation, we cannot and should not think in Fidesz and opposition, and especially not in a responsible public figure or politician; we should work to create national unity, as the responsible government does in order to protect families, protect pensioners and protect jobs. Therefore, I suggest that, in the event that someone cannot do this, although he has a task to deal with, I ask him with respect and suggest that he should deal with the everyday life of Hódmezővásárhely and the citizens there, I trust that sooner or later this will be felt by the fairgrounds as well. And if you feel that you are reliving past events over and over again, if you are reliving campaign events even after the parliamentary elections have been closed, you should not hurry to the stage, but think about where you can ask for help in order not to have to relive it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-175	Well, unfortunately, I can't say that it's unprecedented, but I'm almost unparalleled by the words spoken by the left-wing representative, the left-wing candidate for Prime Minister, he said at a recent cataclysm that it's possible to say that everyone who believes a word of Fidesz after all is stupid, so he really demented my apologies, Mr. President, but that's a literal quote. Unfortunately, I will not be able to quote everything or, unfortunately, everything literally, because there is lower, the left every week, every day, an example that there is always lower. In the company of Péter Márki-Zay, the socialist Zoltán Vajda, when he thought that the cameras were no longer taking it, came down from the stage where he was chasing people, and cynically told Péter Márki-Zay, the other funmaker, that I was good for a long time, but I pissed off their souls, didn't I? So that's what you're saying about your own voters, your own audiences, who are hypocrites in front of them, and then they laugh among themselves, laughing at their own voters. It's pretty amazing. And since there's always a lower [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, we can still expect similar episodes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-176	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Balázs Fürjes has been asked to answer. Do you accept the responder? [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At the left, the phenomenon that, regardless of the government's policy, domestic relations or international conditions, they always try to paint a gloomy picture of Hungary's situation is almost a professional hazard. They say that there is no rule of law here, there is a dictatorship, freedom of speech is limited, and poverty is rampant in general. We all know here that such statements are just balloons, which the honourable left is blowing up to blow them out in the press, hoping for some news from the action. Of course, the real catharsis usually means not only that the statement on the left was a lie, but when the decisive evidence is provided by themselves. That's what we're witnessing right now. One of the loudest of the left-wing honatays living in extreme poverty and oppression, our colleague Bence Tordai, is doing so badly that he started to invest in real estate in one of the most expensive districts in Budapest. With my speech, I do not wish to pry into the Member's pocket, I am sure he has worked hard for this house, but I would like to draw attention to two things. First of all, the fact that, contrary to the statements of the left, the living conditions in Hungary were not so bad if, under the administration of the Fidesz-KDNP, the Member could enter the happy family of the Buda villa owners, and secondly, I would like to point out that Mr Tordai's ingenuity was not only to be sought for the selection of the word flowers that reviled the government, but, according to the press, it is also possible to see the damage in the generous and creative interpretation of the construction rules. Dear Secretary of State, The spirit of the farmhouse does not rest yet, it haunts the press and haunts the House of Torda, so I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that there has been a violation of the rules during the construction of the House of Torda. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The government must find out what the truth is, not in this case, by procedure, by authority. There are press reports, for the time being, from press reports, press reports and press reports, that in a green area in Buda, the green couple built a luxury fork, the president of the dialogue, which is a green party, in the place of a ruined farmhouse in Buda, pretending to be renovated, but it must be an official procedure to find out what the truth is. If the press reports prove to be true, then we can say that this is the first green political scandal in Hungary, the first real estate panama in Hungary in Green Politician, the building supervision procedure must clarify what the situation is based on the law and the facts. I trust that the press news will not be true, because that would mean that a green politician will implement environmental and nature-destroying luxury fork building, irregular over-building, who personally regularly acts against over-buildings and irregular constructions in the name of the environment and nature. [[17.10]] If the press were to prove true, it would also be regrettable, and on the basis of the presumption of innocence, I trust that it is not so, because then a green politician would implement environmental and nature-destroying luxury fork building in this green zone in Buda, who lives there, and who has been elected there, who are those who are bound by these prohibitions, rules... it would be an exception to the rules itself, and obviously, if the locally elected representative did so, it would require a resignation and an interim election, and a green politician would commit such a crime. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who also blew pink balloons, pardons, rubber stickers, pardon for the mistake on the shore of Lake Balaton, protecting Lake Balaton from excessive and irregular installation. I trust he didn't do that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-180	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. We see that the Dialogue is full of self-righteous politicians. We see that Gergely Christmas is happy to use the bus lane when she thinks she's not on camera. We see how creative Bence Tordai can interpret the construction rules here. We see that the Dialogue in the spirit of sustainability blows up a lot of disposable rubber mattresses [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] And then it becomes waste very soon, while they want to perform spectacular actions. They must have said on one of the dozen free beaches that Lake Balaton belongs to everyone. Dear Secretary of State, I think it's scandalous that the Dialogue has been drinking wine and preaching water for many years now. I do not think that the conduct normally allowed by the provocator Bence Tordai in his political activities here in Parliament or outside Parliament is appropriate. We hope that the representatives and politicians of the Dialogue will have a better understanding and will no longer choose hypocritical politics. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, this would be an unprecedented green-politician real estate panama if it were true. In the spirit of the presumption of innocence that we always give you, we'll never get it back from you, we'll wait for the building inspection procedure to be completed. Obviously, the authority will decide on the basis of legislation and facts. The reduction of bureaucracy is valid, it is a reportable, without a building permit, very quickly feasible, which made it possible for many Hungarians to build houses... building was done on the basis of a rule. Of course, the rules must also be complied with by the Member of Parliament, so let us wait for the end. I am the one speaking in this matter. I agree with the left-wing mayor of District II. The mayor of the district, who said the case should be followed by everyone, commenting on the matter. Let's hope that's what happened here. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-184	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:13 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We will now continue our work with the questions. Dear Parliament, Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. For ten years, you played the red one called the reduction of the rent, where the red one was played with the Hungarian consumers, while finally, the world market, it looks like you called off the bluff. Consider the example of the gas price. The world market and domestic prices of gas were also high in 2011. At that time the Hungarian government limited the gas price by law, killing two birds with one stone. By doing so, they bought popularity for themselves, which the owners of the service providers paid with serious losses, and on the other hand, the loss-making companies received for pennies. The gas price of 101 forints per cubic metre was roughly equivalent to the 30 cents world market price. What happened next? From 2013, the free market price started to fall, and by 2016, it became cheaper than the domestic gas price reduced, but most of the gas suppliers were already in the hands of the fidesz oligarchs, who were very good at this deal, but they were bad for them, and the Hungarian consumers were bad for them, as they had received the gas more expensively than the market price for five years, and you lied to them in this small account in the orange box that they were saving, because they compared this quoted price with the previous 130 forints. A year ago, the gas price on the market again exceeded that limit, and since then it has grown rapidly. So what happens now? With those Hungarian consumers who have so far been paid for the extra profit of service providers, it is now safe to call it that, Mr State Secretary, they are now paying for their losses. That's what you announced last week. So I ask Minister: after the tax increases, the overhead increases, the cuts, what else are you planning to do in the near future to get away from what you accuse the opposition of? In the orange field of our accounts, will you tell us how much the overhead has increased compared to the previous one, and will you change the position of Szilárd Németh into a Commissioner for Renewal or Renewal? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Andrea Hegedüs applauds.]]
u2022-07-18-186	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Fürjes answers the question. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-187	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, Congressman, I would like to ask you to decide that the reduction of the rent, as your party president called it when we introduced it, was stupid, Ferenc Gyurcsány literally called it stupid... You called it a bluff at the same time, a little translation of your words, and, on the other hand, to protect the interests of the people, a measure of interest to the Hungarian families. Make up your minds, make up your minds. [[Balázs Barkóczi intervenes.]] One day they say that, the next they say that. I have listened to you, Congressman, please do the same. One day they call it stupid, bluffs, balloons, and the next day they say what it's like to make rules to reduce the costs and to protect the overhead. One mouth at a time can't be cold, it can't be hot. Your party president's position was that when we introduced a reduction in the rent, it was a stupid thing, an unnecessary thing. We govern with people, people and people's authority, and over the last 12 years, we have been able to take countless measures on family support, job creation, business support, and the reduction of the rent, which helps everyday people, people with wages and salaries, small businesses. We will protect them as much as possible, from the consequences of war, war inflation, the economic crisis. It takes two things for a government to really take such measures for the benefit of people and families: we need the intention and we need the opportunity. You never intended to do this, so when you had the opportunity, you didn't take such measures, and today, because of the international situation, the war, because of the economic crisis, the opportunities are limited, and the decisions in Hungary need to be adapted to this with a responsible economic policy. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Répássy is applauding Robert.]]
u2022-07-18-188	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: What is happening to Paks 2? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-189	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, We see the budget figures, and Judi Varga acknowledged that there are very strong cuts in the Hungarian budget. Here too, it has been said many times in this Chamber that we are not sufficiently concerned about energy security and reduction of overhead. Yes, we're worried about Tolna 3. Energy security in the present and in the future is a national cardinal problem, so we will definitely need it. We've heard it here many times, that's what I said in the campaign, that this energy security will be the Paks II project itself. Besides, there is little uncertainty about the construction of the power plant, especially because of the war situation, and we are also surprised that according to the news we have now seen and the budget, the government is pulling 100 billion out of the Paks II project. What's happening? Am I just saying about energy security, or are we really having this much trouble building a power plant? What kind of thing is it that they take money from a project that actually serves the security of an area? What does this change mean for those who live in that area and based their future and the future of the region on plant building, which many of us have said will happen? [[17.20]] Dear Minister, I would like an honest professional answer as to what will happen to Paks II. its future, built and will serve the region, Tolna's 3rd Constituencies, Tolna County and the region's development, future and security, or there are such problems that it will not be built. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-18-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Süli will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-191	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I can confirm that Paks II. We're building it, we're working on it. The withdrawal that has been published in the past few days is due to the fact that the budget was adopted last year, the data were also reported last year, and the Russian party is able to submit invoices at the same time. We pay the total investment in 110 accounts, 12.5 billion, so a significant amount belongs to an account. As we move forward in time, we can see that the annual schedule has been met. Thus, it was not a withdrawal, but a clarification of the budget that this amount is not needed today. I can confirm that we launched this project in 2009, then it received 95.4 percent support from Parliament, it received confidence in the framework of four-party support. This trust has been held in part and partly not in recent times. This has become an international project, with American, French and German suppliers participating in the project, confirming that they still expect the project to be completed with us. They're not only interested in the Paks project, they're interested in the other nine. We are not affected by sanctions in this regard. All the requests for permission that would allow us to enter phase two have been submitted unbroken. If we get the answer from the authority, which is an independent authority, so I can't tell you exactly when the permit will be issued, but at the moment that we get it, we can move to a new phase two, so we can move to the construction phase itself, so the development in the area of Paks will continue. These have been going on in recent years. You've seen it, because we're driving in the same area, that the road network, even the Danube Bridge, is making progress in the preparation of the area, so I can confirm it from here, I can let everyone know, thanking you for your question on how we proceed. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-18-192	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights a question: "Does a child really have to die to launch an investigation? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-193	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Commissioner, I've asked you a written question earlier because of the unsatisfying conditions in the maternity ward at Szolnok Hospital. You informed me at the time that, although you were monitoring the events, you had not opened an investigation because you had not yet been contacted by the complainant concerned, and then explained that the solution chosen to replace Szolnok's obstetrics, i.e. taking pregnant women 100 to 120 km from the city, could not be considered formally illegal. Dear Commissioner, Since then it has been revealed that, under the conditions available to the hospital at Hetényi Géza Hospital, there is unfortunately no surgery that is expected to require child intensive care. The situation has, therefore, worsened since my question, directly threatening the lives of mothers and children. You said earlier that a journey of 100 to 120 kilometers cannot be considered formally illegal. However, your duty in office is to examine in substance the violation of the fundamental human rights of mothers, their fetus and their children. This is referred to in Article 30 (1) of the Fundamental Law, on the basis of which you carry out fundamental rights protection activities, and under paragraph 2 you have a specific obligation to deal with violations of fundamental rights which have come to your attention in the context of investigations. Such a fundamental right is Article II of the Fundamental Law. Article 20 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for the right to life and human dignity, which specifically refers to the protection of foetal life and to Article XX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 (1) the right to physical and mental health. You also informed me that there was no complaint and therefore no Ombudsman's inquiry is pending. However, your office can not only be examined on the basis of complaints, but also on its own initiative, and this is also its duty under the Fundamental Law, and even in the case of the Ombudsman's office, this kind of activism is highly desirable, since it is only in this way that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is able to fulfil the function which was intended for him. I ask, therefore, that, given the gravity of the situation, you wish to initiate an investigation, if not, why the inaction. Mr President, thank you for your patience.
u2022-07-18-194	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Officer, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for the opportunity to express my position once again, following a written question from the Member on the same subject just a month ago. At the time, I sent a written reply, supported by detailed technical reasons, to the Member, and now I can express my position orally two weeks later. In my written reply, on the one hand, I called to the attention of the Member, on the other hand, that, on the basis of the information and the content of the designating decisions at my disposal, the decision which the Member has challenged was in accordance with the relevant legal requirements, and in this sense, there was no concern about their legality. The decision is based on legal basis, it has legal responsibility, so it can be considered legitimate in this sense. I have also informed you that I have not received any specific complaints from the parties concerned in relation to the situation. In the absence of a specific complaint, without a specific context, I must always take into account the fact that, from the point of view of the justification of an own-initiative Ombudsman's inquiry, there is a breach of fundamental rights, i.e. maladministration or the existence of measures within the competence of the Commissioner to resolve it. In each case, the reports referred to in the previous question examined a persistent accessibility problem for a particular healthcare on the basis of an ex officio or complaint, and this is not the case in this case. On the fundamental rights side, it is far from simple and it is self-evident that the temporary loss of a form of healthcare has, in general terms, not in the context of a specific patient, raised a fundamental harm to human health, the state's obligation to protect its lives, or the right to human dignity. It is always the decision-maker's right and obligation to consider capacity, security of supply and availability of supply. As Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, I have no right to review the merits and justification of decisions with professional content. Ombudsperson inquiries are typically not aimed at remedying acute situations, but at identifying back situations related to constitutional rights. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-18-196	I thank the Commissioner for his reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the Hungarian quota in our country's team sports championships? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky has appointed Minister for Defence with responsibility and competence. At the request of the Minister, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The intention to protect our national identity is legitimate on the part of the government, but this should also be part of the protection of Hungarian sport. Most of our team sports can be used without restrictions by foreign or even non-EU athletes. This is how Fradi's starting team, led by Vice President Fidesz, now had not one Hungarian field player in the first BL match in Hungary. Meanwhile, the other day, Romania introduced domestic quota in team sports. In Hungary, for example, in this year's Szeged-Veszprém handball final, only seven of the 27 players entering the field were Hungarian players, or in the beginnings of the Fradi-Újpest football match held last fall, only 3. In addition, foreigners are not so good, although Hungarians have little chance, the football goal king has been awarded in recent years to the Paks team with only domestic players. With this current, completely liberal unregulatedness, Hungary also sends a message that, although we have operated Hungarian sport on an outstanding level for 120-130 years without the excessive use of foreigners, we can no longer do so in the 2020s. This is not true, of course, but our national self-esteem is being sent to the ground and the Hungarian replacement education is being cut off, as the President of the Sports Cabinet of the Hungarian Movement, Attila Nagy, has repeatedly called attention to. We believe that we have the right to create a law that guarantees the participation of Hungarian athletes in the Hungarian tax-paying championships, in sports facilities built from paid taxes. [[17 .30]] The present is not like that. Don't let the Tao money coming to the clubs emigrate to such a significant extent into the pockets of foreign athletes! It is not a question of being a foreigner, but depending on the sport, the number of Hungarian citizens on the field would be 50-70% of the number of Hungarian citizens, which would be considered national and sport-friendly. So how can you provide foreigners with so much of our team sports as a source of national pride? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2022-07-18-198	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Vargha will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-199	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungarian athletes are outstandingly successful in international comparison, and over the past 12 years we have worked to give the nation's athletes the greatest possible support, because it is a great community experience for joint cheerleading at a sporting event, and we can also give our children an example to follow. The foreign or not foreign athlete is a bit of a difficult question, I think you would have raised it, because if we look back, and I think that as a Fehérvári, I am particularly proud of the match on which Nego Szoboszlai, who played in the Hungarian national team, matched the match against Iceland at the additional qualifier; the Nego, who was born not in Hungary, but in Paris, plays in Hungarian colors. If we are talking about quotas, I would like to mention that the treaties of the European Union guarantee the free movement of labour between Member States, which includes sport, and there are very positive examples. For example, in the last four years, 75 percent of all possible games on the field in NB 1 have been played by Hungarian players. In general, we can also say that the funds that can be claimed under the visual team sport support scheme cannot be put into the pockets of foreign athletes, since, according to the legislation in force, this support cannot be awarded to a professional athlete for his employment in sports activities. Let us join together in cheering for the Hungarian sport, which is developing in Hungarian sport. Let's go, Hungarians! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-18-200	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office a question: why, in the midst of the serious livelihood crisis resulting from the austerity Orbán package, does the government consider it important to organise and spend Europe's largest fireworks? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-18-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, the government has acknowledged that the livelihood crisis has become unmanageable and is now completely unfounded, and is in a hurry to put out the fire of its own accord. The destruction of the katás tax form will make hundreds of thousands of self-employed Hungarian citizens impossible overnight, while the rusty lie will soon be an unbearable additional burden for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. Compared to this, it is surprising that the government is preparing for the Szent István Day celebrations with Europe's largest fireworks. I ask you, in the current crisis situation, this should indeed be a government priority. We are spending an enormous amount of money-grinder, polluting, huge fireworks, while the faulty financial policy of the Orbán government, the lack of green energy and the complete lack of preparation for the crisis has pushed the Hungarian population into a livelihood crisis. I would understand the circus and bread, but according to the Hungarian government, the circus is the only one left. On 20 August, the megaloman fireworks are far from harmful simply because of the money-spending. For a long time we have been trying to draw attention to the serious negative effects of fireworks, the use of 40,000 pyrotechnic articles causes serious air pollution, heavy metals harmful to health and particulate matter in the air, it scares the animals to death, dogs flee to the world, and birds get shocked. In fact, it is difficult for our fellow humans to cope with the banging of old people, some disabled people, or small children. In addition, the organizer of the Hungarian Tourism Agency responded first to our question that the price was encrypted for ten years, and then a statement was published stating how much was spent on missiles, but we know that this is about a tenth of the price of the entire series last year, so obviously this will not be the amount. So I ask why, at the time of the austerity Orbán package, the government considers it so important to organise Europe's largest fireworks. How much will this cost us, and why are you not even interested in the environmental and human impact of fireworks?
u2022-07-18-202	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and St. Stephen's Day is a celebration of our founding state, one of our oldest celebrations, and we consider it important to celebrate this in a worthy manner. Every event where Hungarians can experience a sense of belonging together, and based on experience, fireworks are one of these events. It is a tradition that has not been introduced by the current government, but has been with us for a long time. We often experience that left-wing parties have an uneven relationship to state holidays, national holidays, but I do not think that in itself is sufficient reason not to hold these holidays and celebrations. Last year, it was also proposed to cancel the fireworks, which eventually became one of the most popular events in the country, even though we were faced with great challenges because of the epidemic. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that fireworks are not only a spectacle, but also an event that promotes tourism in the capital, contributes to keeping jobs, tens of thousands of people working at the festive events, so these holidays are also a livelihood for many Hungarian families. By the way, a few months ago, even you urged us to support the tourism sector in Budapest. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the necessary pyrotechnic articles for this year's fireworks have already been purchased, the relevant costs will, of course, be made public, the Tourism Agency has issued a communication on the assets already purchased, and, of course, at the end of the holidays, we will be able to publish the aggregated data if this is required. I agree with you that during a war period, in an economic crisis, we have to give special protection to Hungarian families, which is why I am surprised at your suggestion, because they didn't vote for Kata when they had to, and they called the reduction of the rent a lie. [[Rebecca Szabó: Well, it is!]] Even when the government decided. If, by the way, I would help the Hungarians to make a living, I would ask them not to think about new types of taxes, carbon taxes, congestion charges or raising corporate tax, at least during this period. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-18-204	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. What is the reason why the government has repeatedly stood up for the support of the extremely bad water utility sector, but no meaningful action has taken place in the last 12 years? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As deputy minister of responsibility, you are well aware that the water utility system is in critical condition in Hungary. We have seen, in recent times, that there has been a situation in several parts of the country that for days there has been no drinking water in settlements, while in Hungary it has been quite long since that 22 percent of the drinking water produced has been drained without use because of poor quality pipelines. You can see that the number of failures has doubled in the last decade, and today, according to official data, 86 percent of water systems are risky and risky. We also know that about HUF 3000 billion is missing in the medium term in order to maintain drinking water supply and the protection of water bases in Hungary. So it doesn't cost that much, but that's what's missing beyond the resources you've planned. The other day, Szilárd Németh said that a solution to the situation of water utilities would be outlined before the government, but it can be seen that the necessary funds were not planned in the next year's budget. So, as HUF 3000 billion is missing in the medium term, you can see that hundreds of billions more should be spent each year to maintain, maintain and replace public utilities compared to the resources you have planned. I ask you from week to week, you are always presenting the numbers we know, but you know this, Madam Deputy Minister, that they do not represent a single part of the budget on an annual basis, so they have not provided the necessary minimum necessary resources this year, and they are going to adopt next year's budget in this way tomorrow. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State to explain precisely not the figures of the current budget, but precisely these missing hundreds of billions with what timetable, from what source and when, by which decisions will be taken, in order to ensure the most important public service in Hungary in the medium term, i.e. healthy drinking water supply and the protection of water bases. I really hope we get information this way. Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[17.40]]
u2022-07-18-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you know, in 2010, the government took over the water utility system in a very difficult situation, and this was because the pipeline and the technical renovations have largely fallen behind since the change of regime. For this reason, the implementation of these improvements is now one of the most important tasks for the water utility sector and the modernisation of the network is one of the most important tasks. This issue, as you mentioned, was discussed at the Parliament a week ago. As I said then, I would like to stress that Hungary's Government is committed to developing and modernising high quality drinking water. The government considers it an important task to preserve our country's natural environment and rich water resources for future generations. Protecting the water supply of drinking water bases is our priority, which is also ensured under legal regulations. It is important to stress that Hungary has enough water. The availability of public drinking water supply, as I said before, is 100 percent in Hungary in terms of settlements and 82.8 percent of residents joined it at national level through the sewage collection network in 2020. In recent years, our ministry has prepared a national water utility public service strategy with the involvement of stakeholders in the sector. This aims to provide short- and long-term solutions for the entire water utility sector. In 2020, National Vízművek Zrt. was established, which takes the initiative and coordinating role at company level in research and development and innovative technical and economic projects, and we also talked about spending HUF 4.5 billion on the reconstruction of water utilities between 2018-20 and HUF 3.5 billion on efficiency improvements in 2019. This is the water utility provider, isn't it? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , local government-owned water utility providers have also come up. In 2020, we provided nearly HUF 4 billion of state aid. I would like to say that, of course, we are paying attention to the water utility providers again, and I would ask the Member to do so in the light of this. [[The president's ringing again.]] To accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-208	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Regional Development:. What kind of government support is the European Capital of Culture Project Veszprém-Balaton in 2022 and 2023? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In 2016, it was decided that Veszprém will run for the title of the cultural capital of Europe, and then in 2017 he submitted the application for the title, not as a single city, but in cooperation with the Bakony-Balaton region. In February 2018, Debrecen, Győr and Veszprém won the final, where the international jury recommended Veszprém to the European Capital of Culture. The application was preceded by complex joint thinking and work. It is based on five pillars: community building, volunteering, tradition, innovation and sustainability. However, the implementation of the programme would not be possible without the support of the Government of Hungary, as the European Union gives the title and non-promotional opportunities to the winning city. Investment and programme development are carried out from public and municipal sources. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State what kind of government support will be given to the project Veszprém-Balaton, the European Capital of Culture, in 2022-23. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-18-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that we can talk about this important topic today, because the programme "European Capital of Culture" is one of the most important cultural programmes of the European Union, and if a city and its region is awarded the honour of being Europe's Capital of Culture for a year, then it is obviously a huge opportunity and a huge responsibility. In 2023, Veszprém and the Bakony-Balaton region as the title of the cultural capital of Europe will work to strengthen common cultural values and relations in Europe. The implementation and success of the programme series is of national interest. Recognizing this, the Parliament adopted a law in December 2020 that allowed the implementation of significant plant development related to the programme series within a short period of time. During the preparatory years 2020-22, the government and the running Veszprém-Balaton 2023 Zrt., as well as the city, with a number of involved public and civil actors, had to start the organisation of each planned programme and start the relevant infrastructure investments. The Government decision on measures related to the title of the European Capital of Culture 2023 will fix the relevant funds for this year and next year, which will give HUF 8.7 billion for programme development in 2022, and HUF 23 billion for infrastructure development, with a total of HUF 31.7 billion. In 2023, more than HUF 9.7 billion can be spent on program development and infrastructure development, with a total of HUF 23.7 billion. We are confident that the results of the development will positively determine the attractiveness of Veszprém and its region in the long term [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and its success in culture and tourism. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-212	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Dávid, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "Do you know what the consequences of the abolition of KATA will be? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-213	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Before Mr Secretary of State gives the answer, I would like to point out that ten years ago, as Secretary General of the National Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, we supported and supported the introduction of the kata. I would like to remind you of what happened in this House at the beginning of last week: on Monday, you said in a parliamentary resolution that you would protect the multinationals from the European multi-tax. Even though all the EU members and 26 other countries want to tax the multinationals, you veto and stand up for the low taxes on multinationals. That was on Monday. On Tuesday, you basically abolished catalysm taxation, putting 450 thousand Hungarian small entrepreneurs and small taxpayers in an impossible position. Let us say that you have joined international capital against Hungarian small entrepreneurs. We're in this situation because of your multi-friendly economic policy. For years, you deliberately weakened the forint, so the Hungarians were able to work more and more cheaply in euros. That is why we call this inflation inflation in Orbán, because it was created by the economic policy of Orbán. What do they do when the budget is in trouble because of inflation in Orbán? They're charging taxes on small businesses, pouring oil on the fire, instead of valorizing the kata for the last ten years. What about 450,000 people? What this can do, for example, in health care or education, where, despite the low wages that have been paid so far, the system has somehow worked because it has complemented its low wages as a number of education and healthcare workers, which it has received as a public servant. Does the government know what will happen to the people who have paid their wages in addition to school or retirement from September? Secretary of State, do the government know what the consequences of abolishing the catalog will be? Do the government know the consequences of Fidesz taking the side of multinationals against Hungarian small entrepreneurs? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-07-18-214	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister András Tállai. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's start at the end, because that's where you asked specific questions. You're saying, what about those who work as civil servants elsewhere? I'll tell you what happens to them. I'll give you an example. This public servant also works elsewhere, passes a flat-rate tax to the NAV by 25 September, and then will bill the institutions where he works plus. Let's say he gets 5 million forints. According to flat-rate taxation, 40 percent of this is a cost ratio for any self-employed person. [[17.50]] 5 million minus 2 million, 3 million forints left. He would have to pay HUF 3 million with 15 percent, but the flat-rate tax states that HUF 1.2 million is tax-free for all individual entrepreneurs. He's got 1.8 million forints left. Let's multiply that by 15 percent, that's 270,000 forints. By dividing 270 thousand forints to 5 million, it is exactly 5.4 percent tax. Honourable Congressman, Are you serious about this huge burden? Not rumbling in Parliament, but thinking, watching the opportunities given by the tax law! The same goes for schoolchildren and pensioners you asked. They have a secure legal relationship, and the flat-rate tax does not have to pay any taxes unless they obtain this particular income. But the cost ratio and the tax exemption of HUF 1 million will also benefit them. This government is not on the side of multinationals. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Jaj! The ceiling's breaking! Eszter Vitalos: That's you!]] It eliminates precisely the fact that the multinationals have asked people to go out as Katács and not hire them. Now, that's what we're gonna do. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Why isn't the Netwaiter picking up the courier?]] But instead, there's a different kind of favorable taxation, so choose it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: You should have noticed...!]]
u2022-07-18-216	Honourable Parliament... Congressman! It wasn't for you, if I remember correctly. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Construction and Investment a question:. Why do they not support the construction of a playground per motorway at gas stations? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, While talking about the system of national cooperation, none of the 437 opposition amendments to the budget were supported, even my combined spelling correction was voted out, which, of course, was accepted as their own. Why are they so small-time? The Hungarian Movement has formulated a number of constructive proposals that would not have shaken the budget in every case. For example, we proposed to build a playground per highway at gas stations. In order to facilitate their longer journeys, it would be appropriate to build at least one family-friendly resting place per motorway, where they can stop for example for brunch. The public construction of playgrounds could be applied for for by petrol stations, so that public funds could be added to market money, as fuel stations could also be interested in creating a more sophisticated environment for typically dietary and shopping stops, thus providing more services. Why are they against building at least one playground per freeway at gas stations? The Mi Hazank Movement also initiated the free car rental of large family members, but you also voted against it without justification. For example, large family members have 9 billion forints for car purchase, compared to which it would be possible to rent cars free for large families for small stays. Many are unable to maintain their own car, or they would take grandparents, cousins, friends, and the rest of it with them in the summer, and this would require a bigger car. For example, for a maximum period of two weeks, the State could provide a loan car. It's a little like the public housing program, it would help the less well-off families, but they don't want to hear about it. Why not? Finally, I would also like to know when the M1 motorway and especially the M7 motorway will be extended to three lanes. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-18-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin with the personal impression that perhaps even the wildest left parties do not accuse us of not being a family-friendly government. This may be a little strange in the case of a party that considers the character of constructive opposition to itself. But to be serious, in answer to your question, between 2010 and 2022, some HUF 23.5 billion of construction projects were carried out in Hungary, and nearly 50 percent of it affected the transport infrastructure. I do not consider the idea of the devil that the Member has mentioned here, so it is for the construction of playgrounds and family rest areas at the stops of motorways. There have been examples of this in the last ten years, in the case of motorways M30, M85, M86 and M4. As Minister Lazarus has said several times over the last few weeks, and I myself, the government will put before Parliament, in normal procedures, a state investment law that seeks to regulate the Hungarian state's investment system, logic and steps. We would like to ask Mr President, whether for the chapters on these detailed rules, you and your party will draw up the positions that you think will make these public infrastructures much more efficient, much more useful and user-friendly, and this will be supported by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Novak's First Clap.]]
u2022-07-18-220	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for Culture and Innovation:. How do the completed elements of the Liget project serve to strengthen tourism? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-18-221	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, It's the summer holiday season. Once again, we can welcome a lot of guests in Budapest, and after the previous waves of the coronal virus epidemic, foreign guests also arrived. True, they are faced with the chaos caused by unorganized renovations and city operation errors [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] But other than that, Budapest is an attractive destination. The two museums that serve this project have completed the Hungarian House of Music and the new Museum of Ethnography within the framework of the Liget project. They're responsible for this success. Since the opening of the House of Music in January, there has been unbroken interest, and the building with the trees of the Liget attracts visitors and international awards. The Museum of Ethnography opened its doors two months ago, and the institution immediately started with three exhibitions, and the construction of exhibitions allowing the most complete presentation of the huge collection is still under way. There is plenty of room for it, as its exhibition spaces are several times larger than the old Kossuth Square building. These two buildings are the most important in the complex vision that is now beginning to take place, which has been outlined in the dreams of the renewal of the City Park, as a unique recreational and cultural centre has also been established in Europe in the City Park, which we can be proud of. In this connection, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how many visitors the two museums had, perhaps a survey of the proportion of rural and foreign visitors and the professional perception of museum exhibitions, so how these projects increase the quality of Városliget and the tourist attraction of Budapest. Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-07-18-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Not only the last hundred years of Hungary, but now the world-class cultural urban development of the entire Western world is recognised by the largest and most complex international awards. The aim of the project is the comprehensive development of Budapest's 100-acre City Park, which includes the renewal and expansion of the green surface and recreational functions of the park as well as of the Liget's century-old institutional system. New buildings are built exclusively on locations where there were buildings or parking spaces before, i.e. not a single square meter of green surface loss due to developments. On the full impact of the full implementation of the project Liget Budapest in terms of tourism, a study was carried out by the International Analysis Company, which stated that after the full implementation of the new cultural quarter it will be able to attract nearly a thousand extra visitors daily to Budapest, thereby bringing back the funds it has spent on it in 15-20 years at the national economy level by means of the additional tourism it attracts. If the Liget project is fully implemented, as a new emblematic cultural institution in the country, it will provide our capital with a special attraction for decades in the competition of European cities. As you mentioned, since the opening of the House of Hungarian Music in January, Hungary has become one of Hungary's most visited cultural institutions, nearly half a million people have already been to the establishment as part of the project, of which around 100,000 were foreign visitors. [[18.00]] The Museum of Ethnography, too, can be said to be of great interest. During the nearly two months since the opening, he enjoys an amazing popularity. Visitors have already passed the 100,000, of which approximately 20-25 thousand were foreign visitors. We expect that, when the full project "Liget Budapest" is realized, we will be able to place a huge spectacle that has not been in Hungarian history. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-224	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. The Commission's reports on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2023 and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/360. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-225	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 14 July 2022, T/360 discussed the basis for Hungary's central budget for 2023. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. 28 votes in favour, 12 votes against and in the absence of abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, This spring the government submitted next year's budget, so at the same time it is necessary to decide on the bill on the basis of the 2023 central budget. The motion before us amends a number of legislation, the main objective of which is harmonisation. This amending package creates consistency between the budget and the tax laws. The summarised amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislative Affairs contains further amendments as well as codification and grammar clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the submitted bill, together with the summarised amendment proposal, will ensure the regularity and legality of the budget for 2023 for the adoption of the Budget Act, so I ask you to support the T/360. Bill No. 1 with their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented. I give you the floor, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. You have seven minutes of time. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I was one of the speakers who drafted the minority proposal in the Legislative Committee, but in addition to me, other opposition representatives attacked very much, and we attacked this summarised amendment, which Mr Vejkey was just talking about. I think that Fidesz will continue to practice the same practice, that at the last minute on the TAB, in a summary amendment, it will bring new things into this amendment, which was not in the original proposal, or was not in the original bill. I'd like to talk about three things quickly. One is the removal of Vörösmarty Square and Podmaniczky and Széchenyi Square from the Municipality of Budapest. This is to be presented to the friendly, Fidesz-friendly V. district municipality. The question has been raised, and I would also like to say to the House that, behind the transfer of Vörösmarty tér, they want István Tiborcz, who has several hotel investments in the area, to be able to continue this construction with a very friendly municipality and to be responsible for this. The other thing is that I wonder if the Christmas fair, which was held several years ago, decades ago, will now be organised in Vörösmarty Square, because if it is in the management of the V. district municipality's assets, then it must also be owned by the right to dispose of it. There is a suspicion that this very old Christmas market is also intended to be played by a fidesz kisser. The establishment of the Budapest Aglomeration Development Council also arises in this summarised amendment proposal. I simply think that it is not normal that a body with a particular government weight on Budapest and its agglomeration, which will be convened by the President of the Pest County General Assembly, will decide on the affairs of more than two million people living in Budapest and working here. The third point is that it is also intended to amend some of the laws on transport, as well as the underlying bill and the summarised amendment submitted to it. The intention is to establish to Dávid Vitézy the national BKK and transport planning company on an old model, the model of the Budapest BKK. I would ask the Secretary of State or the Fidesz Members not to support this, because it was István Tarlós himself who decided that Dávid Vitézy had not formed the BKK properly at the time, and led it in an inadequate manner, since he had a road access to Dávid Vitézy's feet in 14 years. I am very confident that if something in Budapest turned out not to work, they will not force it to the national level. I also think that what was submitted to the TAB in the context of points 46 to 58 of this summation legislative amendment proposal is a concern. This is about the fact that if a local government cannot carry out its community transport tasks, then you are clearly the property belonging to these municipal companies, and you will wish to take them away and nationalise them, if you will. I think that it would be a much better solution, and I said at the committee meeting that, if these municipalities were not bled out, they would normally, fairly support and finance it, because if that were the case, I think that one municipality can provide a very good level of public transport. And let me ask you this, because I didn't quite understand what you said at the beginning, Mr. President, how many minutes I have...
u2022-07-18-228	You have seven minutes.
u2022-07-18-229	Seven? Oh, well, then I can talk a lot more.
u2022-07-18-230	It's not mandatory, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-18-231	Then I would like to ask that what Mr Secretary of State said at the committee meeting in response to the questions asked, I would like to ask that you try to argue a little more appropriately or in line with what I said there or here. I think that this is not normal and it is not entirely good if Budapesti Közlekedési Zrt. He has been receiving 12 billion forints of state funding for years now, as has been planned for the 2023 budget. Please, Mr Secretary of State, do not come to me with the financial situation of the City Council, and they have taken over the debt, and the rest, because if you look today at the financing position and the financial position of the City Council after 2019, then, I think, you will come to the same conclusion as I have come to. Today even the travelling public using BKV to finance BKV pays the costs of BKV in a higher proportion than the Hungarian State grants. I would like to make one more argument. Today, many of the passengers on the BKV are not even capital residents, but are clearly travelling from the agglomeration to Budapest, using the BKV service, and, if that is the case, at least, Mr State Secretary, do not punish people who voted for Fidesz in the spring of 2022, at least be loyal to them, so that we can provide them with more normal and better conditions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-18-232	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. A total timeframe of 15 minutes is available. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Budgets did not draft a rapporteur. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, rapporteur of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities related to the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. [[18.10]]
u2022-07-18-233	[[???Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви поздравя от името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и от моето име.???]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and myself. As a spokesperson invited, and also as Chairman of the Budget Sub-Committee of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, T/360 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2023. I would like to say the following in the debate on bill number 1. I would like to inform the National Assembly that at the meeting of our committee held on 6 July 2022, a detailed debate was held on the T/360, which was declared a minority item. on the whole of the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2023. No amendments were tabled to this bill, and our committee did not intend to make any further amendments, so the committee did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate and adopted the report on the detailed debate with 12 unanimous votes. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Finally, allow me to thank both the Government of Hungary and the Parliament for their exemplary support to preserve the national identity of national minorities in Hungary, which has been manifested in recent years both through the continuous increase in budget support and through the multi-level support of ethnic education and culture. Ensuring the necessary resources for the balanced and stable functioning of national authorities and their institutions contributes to the preservation of nationalities in Hungary. In view of this, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is T/360 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2023. The Committee recommends that the Committee adopt a number of proposals. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-18-234	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2022-07-18-235	Mr President, Dear House, Well, you're always hoping. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! We have been through a very long, monumental budget debate, where world images are tense for each other, and we see that the package that established the budget would have allowed us to smooth out certain wrinkles. When we look at this material, there is a question of veterinary medicine, various active substances in plant protection products, NAV and certain related forms of implementation, and a very serious pack of small-taxing businesses, and even on a subject that is very hard to cover. But before we get into these things, there's something worth clearing up. In the course of the budgetary debate, it was perhaps among the panels issued to the Fidesz Members, including the KDNPs, that was the word or indicator that actually accompanied all the speeches and talked about the soundness of the budget. In the light of history, it is appropriate to ask the question, Mr. Secretary, that you are in an awkward situation because you must defend it, but do you still think it is justified that you expect a 5.2 percent inflation rate? Is there anyone in this room who can handle this without laughing in a more serious environment? I think it's pretty amazing. And in terms of the HUF-euro exchange rate, they really expect three hundred and seventy-some euros next year, so that's for sure? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not the law. Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] I would be very happy for him, but the fact is that what we see, what we see, what we see in reality, what the paper you create can hold. We could go further on to how predictable I think the sovereign debt rate is, in fact, not predictable at the moment, and it follows that not only the budget, but also the package on which the budget is based, would be unfounded, because it would have a sort of streamlined function, it would have to work together with the government's plans in terms of taxation or other issues, and eventually meet at least in an approximate manner. But the government behaves with this summarizing amendment, and its whole behavior is like it doesn't meet reality, like it doesn't see it. So the fact that there is a protest every day in Budapest, in itself, may not be so unusual as it usually is. But when you're trying to make numbers wars out of this here, with a secretary of state completely contemptuously underestimating protestors, talking about a few hundred people, making them look like political Janichars, I'd like to warn you that you're going down the wrong path, because here the most irritating thing about the Katás amendment is that there was an unspoken social agreement in Hungary. Many of our countrymen, who, as entrepreneurs, as a hopeful middle class, have tried to separate themselves from the semi-feudal dependency system that, say, in North-East Hungary, unfortunately exists, where it depends on the convenience and pleasure of local small kings, or may depend on a local government employee having a job, or who can go to community work, well, many of our countrymen have started to be independent of it, and, where appropriate, they have been trying to find their calculations as Katás entrepreneur. They didn't expect much. So in this unspoken social agreement, most people have accepted that there is no real social network. Thousands of people are evicted, evicted in Hungary, the government made a pact with the banks rather than side with the Hungarian citizens. They also accepted that health care is, in spite of the heroic efforts of those working in it, that underfunding often means going to private care if you want to go from one to the other. They also accepted that the pension system is as it is, I don't have to say it again, 28 500 HUF minimum pension and its associates. These people have accepted that these public supply systems are either creaking or they only work because they are heroically working in them, but basically they do not provide our everyday sense of security. On the other hand, if there is a preferential tax option, then this unspoken agreement was to leave us alone, let us take home as much of our salary as possible, in return, it seems that in such circumstances we must work until death or live under very, very narrow conditions if you rely only on the state foot. Now, this unspoken agreement has been broken not only by the government with its package, but even now, where appropriate, this situation could still be resolved between the various papermakers. This is being developed by the Calvary around the reduction of the rent, where we have listened for ten years at the reference level to how good this is and, by the way, this is a controversial statement, and we have listened to how this ugly, evil opposition allegedly wants to break down the cost reduction, which, of course, was not true. The fact is, the symbol of the Orbán government that could be taken seriously began to be broken down by him himself. The only thing I ask of you today is that at least don't make a profit on the market price copper, because you have prepared people, undersecretaries of state sitting among you, you know perfectly well that if you put market prices even partially on people, the double-to-three-time bills have a tax on three things, one foot on the VAT, if the bill is double-to-three times as big, then the amount of 27 percent VAT to be paid will increase brutally, in the order of 100 billion from one year to another. What I am asking you, and I demand from you, is that if this unworthy situation arises, that the Hungarian people should pay so much more, and, of course, we should argue about the detailed rules, we should agree to protect as many of our compatriots as possible from this, but at least do not profit in this state, and Mr Banai State Secretary, whom I respect very highly professionally, will not tell us next year how much more VAT revenue you have been able to spend, because a large part of this extra tax revenue comes from the fact that much more of the bills placed at market prices have to be paid by our countrymen in the form of VAT. So leave this VAT with the people. Our demand is that clearly, in addition to being left behind, a system of support should also be developed for those who are in an unfairly difficult situation right now. Perhaps this could be a consensus over parties, if there is such a difficult situation that everyone else will be able to shed light on from their own chariot camp, at least this should not generate public profits that can be spent for other purposes. I think it could be a national minimum. I do not see in this package the insight that would be caused by street events, either the economic upheaval of the world economy or the domestic economy, but at least we find this narrow border, come back so much and prove that the safety of Hungarian people and Hungarian families is the most important thing. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-07-18-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. [[18.20]]
u2022-07-18-237	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First, I have a question for the Secretary of State, in case he can help me, and perhaps even for other interested parties: who is the person responsible for transport policy in the Government of Hungary today? The way I see it, the transport policy is a little bit fragmented in the system, and if my memories don't deceive me, the last time Hungary had a Minister of Transport in 2002. Here is János Fónagy, who was Minister of Transport and Water at the time. We can say that there is no ministerial representative of two very important cases today, since neither transport nor water have representatives. We are talking here about the bill on the basis of the budget, and I would like to talk briefly about the transport aspects of this which have been smuggled here, and I would like to ask questions about this. We don't know exactly... would it be János Lázár or Minister Palkovics who would be responsible for transport policy, perhaps Dávid Vitézy, at State Secretary level? The areas of responsibility are messed up in the government, and we don't really see it, and in the last 12 1/2 years, I don't see that there's some kind of transport policy concept for the government. Here's the question of funding. We know that it is one of the most important public services. Lot. Congresswoman Németh has mentioned that the government does not provide the appropriate level of state aid to finance or supplement public transport in the capital. And in the country, the fact is, for two years now, it's been zero forints. So the government adjusted the public support for rural local public transport to exactly zero forints, just when it became an even more critical service during the coronal virus epidemic, because it is obvious that if the resources are narrower for a municipality, it is difficult to ensure adequate flight density and to provide adequate public transport services, and it is difficult to make public transport more competitive in relation to individual transport. Is that the concept now, honourable State Secretarys, honourable members of the government? Two years ago, state aid for cities was abolished, the cities abandoned, Debrecent abandoned, Kaposvár, Pécs, Szeged abandoned, and the rest, in any way, the government does not wish to help the municipalities in such a difficult situation to carry out public transport tasks which are almost impossible on its own. In return, you want to nationalize these transportation companies? We know that there are six or seven rural cities in Hungary where they have their own public transport company, and they do not order the service from Volánbusz. I think we need to say that the organisation of public transport is a public service where local ownership, local knowledge, local knowledge and closer relations with voters are very important to ensure that appropriate organisational and other economic decisions can be taken. So I find it extremely wrong to bleed out local public transport in rural cities, in the capital and in the agglomeration, and then think that a certain level of centralization, or we can say that an extreme level of centralisation will provide some sort of solution, even though we know that this is not true. My question is that there is any kind of transport concept, we get there, which you are talking about from one cycle to the next, that we should introduce some kind of common public transport system, that funding should be put on a completely new basis, that funding should be organised in such a way that local authorities have to put less into it and that the public should pay less to travel. There are very good European patterns for this. You have had on your table for many long years the concepts that underpin the development of public transport, which is thus organised in a unified tariff community, operating in a unified system, according to a regular timetable. That's a decision you didn't make. I don't understand why they didn't bring it, and I still don't understand these nationalisation measures. And the tragic thing is that it is not even possible to know which government member to turn to, to ask any questions at all, so that we can see more clearly, whether there is, or whether there will be, any concept of public transport or transport policy for the government. I also have a specific question, which means that rural cities can permanently give up the government's support for financing local public transport. And I would like to refer to one more thing. Well, it is not a legislative harmonisation amendment either, as Congressman Vejkey said, that regional development councils are also centralised and a co-chair system is being introduced. We know that successful territorial development is based on local decision-making competence, in foreign words, to ensure subsidiarity. And it can be seen that in countries where the competence of decision-making has been achieved at local level, EU funds have been used much more efficiently. Unfortunately, we have the opposite trends, and we can say that the government's territorial development policy is about as successful as the regional development policy of the governments before 2010. It can be seen that there are several regions in Hungary that remain among the 20 poorest regions in the Union, and we can see if we look a little deeper into the statistical data, that there are particularly extensive and increasingly widespread crisis regions within the different regions. Well, centralisation will not solve this, but it will be done if the decision levels are taken to a place where they can still be taken and the local politicians elected on the ground hand over the resources with which a balanced territorial development policy could indeed be implemented in Hungary, with proper territorial development and rural development policies. Unfortunately, we don't see any trace of that. That was two cases. This law could be criticised for a very, very long time. I think that these are two issues, which are also important for rural areas, and are important issues. We can also say, on the basis of the misguided government decisions we see here, that we will, of course, not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-18-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to respond to a few things that have been said here, because, either because of the opposition's failure to read the law or because of deliberate slippage, things have not been quite true. We also allow a number of things that my fellow opposition Members have talked about to be not included in the bill establishing the budget. For example, the euro exchange rate is not included in the bill establishing the budget, honourable Member. This is not a second-reading debate on the budget, but a debate on the legislative proposals on which the budget is based. Congresswoman talked about the Christmas fair with the same name as the mayor. The congresswoman said that if the public area was transferred to District V, you must have said that it would be operated by fidesz kissers or something like that. So, according to your logic, it's being operated by a DK kisser, right? Because that's your logic. We know the capital is being used by DK as a cash pump anyway. We've heard of sharks from Gordon of Bajna as a real estate agent, and we've heard the background of these stories. And we also know that Christmas is surrounded by the people of Ferenc Gyurcsány Gergely Gyurcsány, and he can only decide as Ferenc Gyurcsány tells him. But let's clear the V. District question. Madam Member, the V. district has been supervising these spaces for many years, but you are not paying him anything from the capital, you are not compensating. In fact, all roads leading to these spaces are owned by District V. So unless you try a hot air balloon, you can't approach these spaces without approaching them in the public areas of District V. Maybe a hot air balloon, or if you ask Mr. Fox for his helicopter, it could be a different approach. The congresswoman said that what does not work in Budapest should not be forced at national level. Well, that was also the case with you on 3 April, honourable Member. They saw that it didn't work in Budapest, so they didn't force it at national level. The topic of the last speech of Question Time was the cultural investment in Budapest, the Liget project. We heard from Deputy Minister Eszter Vitalyos about the huge success of the House of Hungarian Music set up in the Liget or the Museum of Ethnography. These are the ones that you have not supported, and these investments have brought great success to Budapest. And you have such a touristic success, honourable Member, despite the fact that there is an unbearable amount of traffic in Budapest even in the summer, and also the garbage, honourable Member, because you have removed hundreds of trash cans in the public squares of Budapest with a noble simplicity, saying that there is no need for them. I don't know if the green policy or the climate crisis you've announced has anything to do with the decommissioning of the dumpsters, or just the fact that the million-dollar rewards and the forty-something advisors didn't have any money left for the dumpsters, because you had to hand out the million-dollar rewards to the DK commissioners at the end of the year. These are important issues, Madam honourable Member. The first and most important task of Budapest, as most municipalities, is the operation of public transport. Where this can be found, as can be found in Budapest, the task would be to operate this in the most modern and user-friendly way possible, honourable Member. We remember that in 2020, in the middle of the Covid epidemic, you tried to thin the flights so that people could get crowded as much as possible. Then, when the Metropolitan Government asked you for a plan to concentrate, it turned out that a bus tender was issued where the winner had neither a bus nor a company nor anything outside of an offshore account. Such cases revolve around the capital, and this may be why the metropolitan transport does not work as it did in the time of István Tarlós, honourable Member. I would say to Mr Crusades that there is a government minister responsible for transport policy, called László Palkovics. But it is worth reading the Statute, honourable Member. Don't read Telex, I recommend the Hungarian Gazette, and it may be better for you and all of us. [[18.30]] It says who is the Minister responsible for transport policy, who is the Minister responsible for energy policy, who is the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Taxation, and so on. I think that because someone does not have all the responsibilities, let us say, in his ministerial title, that does not mean that this area does not have special attention, honourable Member. For example, consultation with local government-owned water companies is ongoing in order to resolve the situation, and consultations with state-owned water companies are ongoing. If you have already said that we in transport policy have not achieved any results in the last 12 years, I would like to deny that. We can have a lot of results behind us, whether it is the extension of motorways to the border, the extension of many motorways to the border, the four-tracking of a number of single-digit roads, that can be achieved from anywhere within 30 minutes on a four-track journey, for example in many places, by creating roundabouts in accident-dangerous nodes, for example, by providing a number of railway passageways not only with a light barrier, but also with a real barrier for safer transport, whether it is that in many large cities in Hungary electric buses have been in service and help the daily lives of those living there, and otherwise they do not pollute the environment so much. We have done so many things, honourable Member, you will never hear me say that we have done everything we should have done in the transport policy, but that is why we have asked the voters for another four years. There are many things to do, both in this area and in other areas, but not to achieve any results, I would not consider it fair or true. We have achieved a number of results in the areas of public transport and motorcycling, cycling and many forms of transport, which I think we should be proud of, even you can be proud of, even if you have been in opposition for these 12 years and not in favour of the government. Overall, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, although many comments have not come to the bill on which the budget is based, the bill on which the budget is based is a classical salad law, to bring this here as a criticism, I think it is unfair. This is about the fact that the figures described in the budget are changing in many places, we need legislative changes, the supervisory bodies are changing, things are moving, and, for example, keys and numbers need to be changed in the underlying law. I think it's right that this is the case, so it's a classic salad law, and it has to be. As we have made absolutely clear in the general debate, we will also support it, because we think it is important that if we have a budget that we have to deal with, it is the government's job and I think that it is Parliament's job to implement this budget in a disciplined manner, then obviously we also need laws on foundation, laws that will help implement the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give you the floor, Gy. Mrs Erzsébet Németh, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Congressman Nacha, I'm actually sorry for you, and I'm telling you honestly, because you have to argue about something about Budapest that you can't quite rightly have all the accurate knowledge of, and it seems that those who prepare you don't always tell you everything. But allow me, because fortunately, I have time, a few things, in case with common wisdom you will see these things a little differently. I believe that the salad law has not been mentioned by one opposition Member that the problem is putting so much into a law. The problem is that new things have been introduced to the Legislative Committee in its summary amendment, pro-government amendment proposal. So what I was talking about, but I don't think that my fellow Member Z. Carpathian or fellow Member Lóránt Keresztes, they just came up, at the end of last week, Thursday or when the TAB meeting was, until then, it wasn't really about these matters that I was talking about. Then let's get this whole V. district and Vörösmarty square thing straight. Public area supervision, Congressman, is not provided by the V. district public area supervision, but by the FÖRI, the Metropolitan Municipal Police Directorate. This has been the case for a long time, and the mayor wanted to keep it, but thank God, the Metropolitan Assembly has decided that we want to do so on our own terms. But while we're at it, all roads to this important area go through District V, I'll ask why Kossuth Square is not handed over to the Mayor of the District and to the Municipality of District V. Here, too, all roads lead through the V. district, perhaps even some small capital road, where the tram goes, but they don't give this space to the V. district. It was not a coincidence that when the House voted for a HUF 5 billion framework for the renovation of Vörösmarty tér, István Tarlós did not say that it was okay to give Vörösmarty tér into property or asset management to the V. district to carry out the renovation. No, do the renovation in District V, if you trust the mayor more than István Tarlós, then I think that after that, he was absolutely right to ask for it back. All we ask is the same as before, so that, as before, during István Tarlós, this was under the authority of the Municipality of Budapest, it remains the same. And about the Christmas market, I would just like to say to the Member that it is worth seeing, and we were just talking about what a huge tourist attraction the Liget is, well, the Christmas market is at least the same size. The Metropolitan Government started at some point, back in the mid-1990s, towards the end. I think that this was Europe's first and most beautiful Christmas market for a number of years, even decades, because the current metropolitan leadership has really taken care of it, and here I also think that I am talking about the leadership of the capital between 2010 and 19 so that this really is a prestigious and truly professionally excellent Christmas market. I'm not sure the V. district government will be able to guarantee that. Regarding the Liget project: the biggest problem with the Liget project is where it is. If you do this at some point in a brownfield investment in a rust zone, I think that it would have actually met the needs and intentions of the Budapest people, and the allegations made by Secretary of State Vitalos are not true. The green surface is, or it can be shown, that the green surface does not decrease, because you have changed the rules and regulations to ensure that the green surface is not reduced. What I would like to talk about is public transport. If I have time, then I will compile or set up a material for you, which is about the fact that at the moment the main burden of public transport in the capital is made up of two groups: one is the capital taxpayer, the other is those whose business tax cannot be turned into something else by your law by the municipalities, because that is what they have to do, and the other is the travelling public. No, dear Member, anywhere in Europe is a big city where the state does not take at least one third of the cost of public transport. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] Look it up, I think that my statement is fully in place. They are on a very bad path when they think about nationalising this, as Mr Keresztes said, because it is a direct route to bleeding out municipal and I am not just talking about Budapest. Just as they could not organise and operate normally from primary care through specialised care and inpatient care to health care, or I can say the same thing to education from primary to higher education, it will not work for you either. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2022-07-18-242	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have a 15-minute window, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-18-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me thank you for all the words that have highlighted the positives of the bill before you; Mr Varga Simeon is also a national minority advocate that he spoke not only about the year 2023 but also about the years behind us when the support for ethnic minorities was expanded. I hope that in 2023, in the shadow of a war, we can preserve these subsidies. In addition to positive words, of course, as in the debate on all legislative proposals, there were negative comments and negative comments. In my opinion, they do not always cover the information contained in the bill before you. Allow me to address these matters. Lot. As a criticism, Mrs Erzsébet Németh said that the change in the ownership of three spaces entered the bill at the last minute as part of the summary amendment proposal. Let me say, in fact, that the change in ownership of the three real estates that were mentioned this evening was already included in the original bill. [[18.40]] The reason why this change is appropriate was said by Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Allow me to briefly, factually explain and argue with the congresswoman when I claim that in terms of Podmaniczky Frigyes tér and Vörösmarty tér, public area monitoring tasks have been carried out by the V. district municipality since 2014 instead of the capital, while the clearing of the squares has been largely carried out by the V. district municipality since the autumn of 2019, and the latter has also been given in writing by the capital in an agreement concluded in April 2022, but neither the previous agreements nor the agreement that still apply today have stated the transfer of the right of property or other financial means necessary to carry out the tasks. It was also mentioned that the roads surrounding the buildings concerned are indeed owned by the V. district municipality, and I think it is also an important aspect that both Podmaniczky Square and Vörösmarty Square and the surrounding V. district areas and streets were renewed in 2019 by the V. district municipality with state aid. So I think that, on a principle basis, these changes in property rights can be justified. I also draw attention to the fact that, in recent years, a number of properties have been transferred free of charge from public property to municipal property. If we look at the list, there is a very long list of municipalities whose leadership is provided by the opposition representative body or mayor with opposition support, so I repeat, in recent years we have seen in many cases that municipalities have been given ownership. As far as the Budapest agglomeration development council is concerned, I believe that, if cooperation is often mentioned from opposition benches, the importance of consultation is welcome, a forum that gives the opportunity to improve the coherence of the capital and surrounding settlements. Quoting from the bill, I can say that the member of this development council is another delegate from among the members of the Mayor and the Metropolitan Assembly. As regards the composition of the council, if the congresswoman considers it appropriate to change the composition of the councils, then I think that it is not necessary to start with the Budapest agglomeration development council, but to review the entire development council structure, since the Budapest agglomeration development Council does not initiate any specific provisions in the existing legal system regarding the composition of the council. As regards transport issues, let me say in fact that the budget provided and provides support for the local transport tasks of a single municipality in the future, this is the Municipality of Budapest, where we calculated HUF 12 billion this year as well as the following year. The motion before you is Mr. Gy. Compared to the words of Mrs Erzsébet Németh, she does not, in my view, contain any changes in property rights. The congresswoman pointed out that, according to the motion, if a local government sees confusion in the performance of local transport tasks, it may initiate the so-called final designation of refuge. This motion does not, I repeat, refer to property transactions, and this final asylum can be designated on the basis of the announcement of the municipality, which is decided by the Minister. The sole purpose of the motion is that if a local government considers that it is unable to carry out local transport tasks, then you can ask the Minister responsible for the task, who has spoken to Minister László Palkovics, and the Minister can decide who will carry out the transport tasks. I repeat, there is therefore no question of property rights. Of course, we are working on it, and next year's draft budget law is prepared in the spirit of giving local authorities the opportunity to carry out local tasks. In this regard, I will also say what I said in fact at the committee meeting about the suggestion made by the Member, that the most important tax revenue of local authorities, the amount of business tax, increased by 50 percent between 2014 and 2019, was a 60 percent increase in the capital. So if we are talking about the need to carry out local tasks, which, by law, are the tasks of the local government, then I think it is of paramount importance that the local government has its resources. If there is economic growth in a country, local authorities are also beneficiaries of economic growth. Thanks to the fact that the expansion of the Hungarian economy exceeded the EU average every year from 2013 before the pandemic, the tax revenue of local authorities also increased. There was a pandemic, we still feel the effect of the pandemic, but I would like to be factual: according to the local authorities' own report 2022. The amount of the savings in the commercial bank account in the first quarter of 2016 was over HUF 1000 billion, higher than in 2019 or in 2020-21. So, overall, the financial situation of local authorities is stable, so it is difficult for me to understand when it comes to bleeding out local authorities. Of course, some municipalities have difficulties, the effects of the war we all feel, but I repeat, it is a strong claim that local authorities cannot carry out their duties. The other issue is that there are municipalities that are better, others are less well-managed; I think the local government's own data shows that a municipality is one of the better or less well-farmed municipalities. In fact, let me tell you that in 2019 Budapest was a capital city with hundreds of billion forints in commercial banking and sovereign debt. [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh: Oh, my God! Tagged with upgrades!]] I hear what you're saying, Congresswoman, thank God that there was a source of development, and that the Municipality of Budapest has been able to put me aside in these years! [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: And the answer? It's not operational money for development money, is it?!]] As far as the transport tasks outside Budapest are concerned, the congresswoman was talking about the national transport manager. I think it is important to note that, regardless of parliamentary cycles, the central government has always provided the organizer part of the inter-local transport tasks, so it was he, the government, who ordered public services either by train or by road, who set the timetable. The proposal before you contains nothing new in this respect; it institutionalises this national transport organisation task; it is, of course, the responsibility of the government to carry out this task well. In this connection, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, in addition to what Congressman Lőrinc Nacs said, let me say that the government does have a transport strategy. I must also say that, for example, we would not have been able to use both domestic and EU development resources if the European Commission itself did not think that this strategy was ready and that this strategy was appropriate for the tasks ahead of us. So, I repeat, not only do we have a strategy, but it is a strategy that the European Commission has explicitly adopted in the past in relation to the use of EU funds. I think the results of this strategy can be seen by everyone who is in the country. I agree with Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, of course we have tasks, but if we look at the development of the road network, then we see what investments have been made. As far as the railway is concerned, please see how many KISS trains are running, or that 123 Flirt electric trains can be seen on the tracks, which allows a modern public service. But while we were talking about Budapest, the agglomeration, let's look at the developments on the Vác line, what developments have been made on the agglomeration lines, or what developments have been made on the main so-called TEN-T railway line. And if we are talking about the foundation of the 2023 budget, we see in the draft budget law 2023 that there is more resources for Community transport, including rail transport, not only for improvements, but also for the maintenance and operation of transport. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát was indeed talking about macroeconomic items which are not included in the bill before you. I agree with the Member when he said that there is a difficult situation. We all know that he mentioned inflation, what levels inflation has reached in Europe as a result of the war, and I also agree that in this situation everything must be done to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people and Hungarian families, as the Member said, is the most important. If the Member agrees, I hope that he will be able to support a number of elements of the draft budget law next year. [[18.50]] We have often said that the safety of families can also be seen as a safety of life, that the amount of family support is increasing significantly, and that overall security expenditure, defence and police expenditures are also increasing significantly. And indeed, the source of this is not government profit, but its source is in part the special tax system, which includes the inclusion of extra profit in the financing of public expenditure due to war in certain sectors. Overall, I think, therefore, that there are a number of issues that I hope we may have been able to clarify in the debate over the past few weeks or in the course of this evening. I also agree with Members talking about tasks ahead of us, even in areas where more resources are needed, but I think that in the shadow of the war, a proposal for a budget law for next year and a legislative proposal for a budget that is legally a unit and which focuses on preserving the results of recent years in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-244	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws affecting the financial sector and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/363. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/363 amending certain laws concerning the financial sector. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill before us is to fine-tune the laws on the money, capital and insurance markets, market supervision and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. Please allow me to explain the main points of the proposal submitted only through a few examples. The reason for amending the law on mortgage credit institutions and mortgage bonds is that strict margin rules should be taken into account when issuing mortgage bonds, taking into account the security of mortgage holders. The amendment to the Capital Markets Act makes it clear that, in the case of a guarantee to the bond, the binding substance of the bond is the guaranteeor's legal statement and signature only if the guarantee is made by a unilateral declaration of law. The amendment to the Investment Business Act clarifies that it is possible to invest in funds in portfolio management activities. The law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance needs to be amended because, under the underlying directive, the minimum amount of insurance cover should be revised every five years in accordance with the European Index of Consumer Prices. The amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary clarifies internal references and allows the MNB to open market surveillance procedures in case of suspicion of unauthorized community financing activities. Following the amendment of the Law on certain payment service providers, it is possible for the payment institution to carry out financial service mediation activities. The provisions of the Act on the further development of a system of institutions to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system provide, in a significant part, clarifications on the assessment of resolvability barriers for credit institutions and investment firms and the removal of obstacles. Dear House, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill contains forward-looking provisions, which is why it should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[Dr. János Major: In the end, with respect, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that there will be a period of 15 minutes during the speech and the closing statement. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak within the given timeframe. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate, and no one has made any written submissions. I'm asking if anyone would like to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-247	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the discussion of the bill amending the laws governing the financial sector, I would like to thank you for your express support and agreement on this proposal. As has been said in previous contributions from my opposition colleagues, indeed, the bill contains technical and technical legislative amendments, in addition to having customer-friendly, consumer-friendly provisions. There were no objections to the content of the bill during the hearing, as indicated by the fact that neither the Members nor the Economic Commission submitted any amendments. The vast majority of the amendments adopted by the Legislative Committee were also technical, clarifying and contained compliance with an additional legal harmonisation obligation. The amendment containing compliance with the legislative harmonisation provision is the alignment of the domestic arrangements for resolution of CCPs with Union law. All the details of the resolution regulation are provided by the EU regulation, so we are faced with a specific, ready-to-date set of rules, and the Hungarian regulatory proposal contains only the designation of the determining authority, certain procedural rules and certain elements of the sanctioning system. Dear Parliament, Thank you for the Committees' supporting work and, in the light of what has been said above, I would like to ask my fellow Members that the summarised amendment and the T/363. In addition to this, the Commission would like to support the proposal for a single legislative proposal. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity, to support my fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-248	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain economic regulation laws and the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/366. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/366 amendment to certain economic regulation laws. Bill No. 1. The amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rule 46. By 25 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us raises a number of amendments to laws, such as the Mining Act, the Gambling Management Act and the Law on Tobacco Control and Retailing of Tobacco Products. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to explain, for just a few examples, the main points of the proposed legislation. With regard to the amendment of the Mining Act, it is intended primarily to address issues raised in the application of practical law and to clarify legislation. The Gambling Management Act excludes gifts, given that they do not qualify as gambling. As with other actions, consumer protection oversight of gift orders is currently and will continue to be carried out by government agencies as general consumer protection bodies. [[19.00]] The amendment to the Law on the control of young people's smoking and retail trade in tobacco introduces the concept of unauthorised retail trade in tobacco products. The regulation seeks to make it clear that the sale of products which can only be marketed in tobacco shops is illegal and that the sale of tobacco products which are prohibited from being placed on the market in Hungary also constitutes an unauthorised activity. It should be pointed out that the range of products that may be marketed in the tobacco store will be regulated, not at the statutory level, but at the regulation of the President of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Dear House, I believe that, in the general and detailed debate on the bill, the substantive provisions of the bill have been properly presented, and that, therefore, in the light of what has been said, the proposed bill should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-250	Thank you. Welcome, everyone. I'll ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[Dr. Zsófia Koncz:]] No comment, thank you. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. First, I'll give the word to the Crusades. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-251	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would actually like to address a few brief questions to the Secretary of State. One of the important elements of this bill, this salad law, is the amendment of the Mining Act, which, by the way, will take place for the third time in the last year, if I count correctly. What is the reason for this? Furthermore, it is clear that the government has set out with all its efforts to force the mining of raw materials, while it does not use capacity for processing, and it can also be seen that there is no recycling of construction waste, there is insufficient capacity in Hungary. I think it cannot be strongly enough to stress how important it is that we are increasingly able to base such construction investments by recycling. When does the government intend to make legislative amendments to illegal mining activities so that they can be sanctioned more effectively and more effectively? And finally, an issue that is particularly exciting for my narrower country, Pécs and Baranya: these are issues relating to uranium mining, the actualities of plans for uranium mining. I asked a question, didn't I, Minister of State and Minister Palkovic, only received a reply from the State Secretary, as to the fact that Minister Palkovic raised the possible re-launch of uranium mining in Mecsek as a possible backup solution, even though we know that this would in no way serve Hungary's energy self-determination or energy security, because beyond that, even if this were to happen, we could only buy nuclear fuel from the Russians, so uranium mining in Hungary would not mean energy self-determination. On the other hand, we also know exactly what brutal environmental destruction and uranium mining would involve. The former uranium mining in the area of Pécs, Kővápőszőlős caused environmental destruction that could never be fully restored. This has already consumed approximately HUF 30 billion in the cost of regeneration, and the Pécs water base has to be protected by huge amounts on an annual basis due to the activities of former uranium mining. We know that for a decade, different investors have been struggling to get permission to do uranium mining again. I received a reply from the State Secretary that there is no such procedure in Hungary, even though the request from the Baranya County Government Office has arrived regarding the fact that Magyar Urán Resources Kft. has arrived. Indeed, it has reopened the investigation procedure for such uranium mining activities. What is the basis for this contradiction? How could the government not be aware of the reopening of uranium mining procedures? How could the government not have been informed that, let's say, the Government of Hungary had no such intention? And why can't the Hungarian government finally conclude this issue permanently, even though the city of Pécs has declared that it would not tolerate it in any way, would not support uranium mining activities that would only cause damage from an economic point of view, contrary to the development goals of Pécs and Baranya? This would mean only a little jobs, would not mean any business tax revenue for Pécs, and in itself, in addition to the mining activity, a mining plot design would result in a very significant depreciation of over a thousand properties in Pécs. So I would like to have an answer to that, because the government does not see that there are such procedures, what is the government's position, and we can count on the government to side with Pécs and not to allow any environmentally destructive and economically harmful uranium mining activity on the border of Pécs. Thank you in advance for your answers.
u2022-07-18-252	Thank you, Congressman. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I don't see any other comment. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Zsófia Koncz:]] Here's to you, Madam Secretary.
u2022-07-18-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank you for your support so far and for your participation in the debate, and I would also like to inform you that there has been no intention of amending the bill by individual representatives. The Legislative Committee presented an amending package to ensure the coherence of the legal system and technical clarification, which was supported by the Government and the Committee. As I mentioned in my expozem, the aim of the bill is to preserve the stability of the Hungarian energy supply, to boost domestic production important for the construction industry and to ensure the supply of raw materials, and to strengthen the rules on the protection of players in the field of gambling, and to protect our children in relation to the retail trade in tobacco products. Mr Kereszt has touched on the Mining Act in part, which raises many issues which are not actually part of the summary amendment proposal. If you would allow me, I would remain within the framework of this bill, the amendments to which concern mining are essentially about boosting domestic production and ensuring the supply of raw materials, and amendments have been made in this respect. If I may, I would just like to say a few thoughts about that. There was a smooth transition from the Hungarian Mining and Geological Service to the integration of SZTFH from the organization of the Hungarian Mining and Geological Service and the Government Offices, while in parallel the earlier government and/or ministerial regulations were replaced by SZTFH regulations on a deadline in the context of sectoral legislation, and changes were made where possible, in the light of the experience of law enforcement. Several new legislative proposals have been drawn up and are under way. Since the questions referred by the Member are now not part of this package, I would not give any further information on this, because, as you have already mentioned, he has done so in another forum. What I would like to highlight, however, and I think is a very important part of this package, is the issue of Elf Bar. In the last general debate, however, much has been said, and I think that this is a very important step forward on this issue. I would like to inform you that the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities is fighting a number of measures against this phenomenon. This is an important new news in recent weeks, and I think it should be pointed out here in Parliament that, in recent weeks, a free information and notification number of 1828 has been launched, where anyone who is aware of illegal sales of goods may also be given anonymous information. In addition, the President of the Authority sent a letter to the Mayors of Metropolitan cities asking them to assist in the repression of Elf Bar and contacted large advertising companies in order to refrain from advertising the product. In addition, it is important to point out that, in order to prevent it, we consider it particularly important to inform parents and children, and therefore, in the Erzsébet camps, attention will also be drawn to the danger of the device and, from autumn to 3,500 schools, will present its harmful effects in a separate classroom. I think this is a very important part of the bill. Thank you once again for your support so far, and I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.10]]
u2022-07-18-254	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It is now time to discuss the Commission's reports and a summary amendment proposal on the general rules for compliance with accessibility requirements for products and services. The government referral is T/365. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the TAB will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/365 on the general rules for compliance with accessibility requirements for products and services was discussed at the Legislative Committee meeting on 14 July 2022. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 32 votes to six, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Parliament has already supported and will continue to support all initiatives that have served accessibility, since today, fortunately, it considers people with disabilities not as members of society in need of charity, but as equal and equivalent members of society, who can count on our help in order to live a full and meaningful life. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the proposal before us, we can take another step towards our disabled fellow citizens by transposing into the Hungarian legal order the accessibility requirements of the European Union on 17 April 2019 (2019/882). Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Directive allows, inter alia, the approximation of the laws of the Member States on accessibility, thereby allowing the free movement of accessible products and services within the EU internal market. The bill also aims to ensure the accessibility of widely used products and services, which, thanks to their original design or subsequent amendment, will also meet the specific needs of persons with disabilities. It is also important to stress that the directive actually aims to help not only people with disabilities, but also all persons with limited functionality, such as the elderly, pregnant women or even those travelling with luggage. Overall, therefore, we can safely say that we have a forward-looking bill to support, as if it were adopted, a significant number of economic operators are expected to be involved in accessibility, thereby broadening the scope of accessible products and services. Dear House, The Legislative Committee adopted a proposal consisting of eight points, mainly technical amendments which do not affect content. In view of these considerations, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-256	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Bence Rétvári: In the end.]] The author indicates that he wishes to comment at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see that. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-18-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[Nacsa Lawrence: Microphone!]] Dear House, [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's still Répássy!]]
u2022-07-18-258	Please change it. [[The name of Bence Rétvári appears on the display.]]
u2022-07-18-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm very deceived when you call Mr. Secretary of State Répássy, as if it were me. But I am glad that there seems to be a consensus here in this House, and there is no debate about it. Indeed, it is always of particular importance when the Parliament negotiates a proposal concerning people with disabilities, because we can only succeed in any disability situation if there is consensus in them, as a joint matter and as a common will. This is also the case in this case, and we would also like to achieve with this proposal and with many other proposals that everyone treats disability more naturally, that people with disabilities are accepted in every city and village, because it is a matter for society as a whole. Living with a disability and needing help can do value-making things over the past few years, I think we've been able to prove that, so people with disabilities need to be able to see opportunities and not lack them. In the area of disability, the key to success is a common cause, a common will, and therefore rather than charity, as the Member said, we need to build on autonomy and self-assessment. The government and I see that Parliament is also committed to promoting the provision of products and services to which all persons, regardless of disability, have access as far as possible. Our aim is to promote the free movement of products and services within the EU market. The directive applies not only to persons with disabilities, but, as the Member said, to many others, to older people, pregnant women, and to many others. With this proposal, we will ensure that products that meet specific needs, for people with disabilities, reach different locations much more easily. The government supports all measures that serve accessibility that bring people closer to full life in all areas of life. Modern disability does not regard people with disabilities as persons in need of the benefit of the majority society, but as holders of rights as equal and equivalent members of society, who, above all, can rely on the continuous assistance of the majority society and can live their lives with the greatest possible autonomy that it needs. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and their fractions for taking up the position and supporting this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-18-260	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And thank you for being on the lookout for the wrong name, but we can't be distracted by this late date. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The debate on the Commission's report on the protection of members of the pension society in the public interest and of the cooperative with small children. The proposal submitted by Members Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, Judit Varga, Fidesz, Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP and T/362. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the authors if they would like to speak. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] They said they'd like to comment at the end. I'll ask if someone from the government wants to speak. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No.]] I don't see any applications. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There's no room for two minutes. Dear Parliament, Contributor... [[There's no signal.]] I can't see. The debate is now closed. I don't see anyone on the government's side wanting to say anything. Then I'll give the floor to the authors. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank everyone who expressed their views on the bill in the general debate. Basically, many have been very supportive or at least in terms of their approval in the debate. A stronger criticism, what has been said, is that this bill does not solve all the problems of the Hungarian economy. That wasn't basically the goal, though I admit it could have been, but we're not here now. I consider it very important that, in the course of bankruptcy proceedings, members of pensioners' cooperatives or cooperative members of small children's homes should be at the same level as the debtor's wages, so that they can always receive the wages due to them, the payment due to them, even if a bankruptcy or winding-up proceedings are under way. I therefore believe that it is an important common matter that the members of these cooperatives should be able to receive their share in a bankruptcy procedure. So I ask you to support our bill in tomorrow's vote, because no amendment has been tabled, and the committee has not even set up a minority rapporteur, nor has there been a debate, so I think that all obstacles to tomorrow's vote have been removed. I hope it's not a big deal, but in a small case, we can help a few people, hundreds of people, even though they're not in a position to bankrupt a company, but I think that all help matters, so I'm asking you to support the bill tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]] [[19.20]]
u2022-07-18-262	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The debate on the Commission's report on the Hungarian position on the future of the European Union will follow. The submission submitted by Members László Kövér, Fidesz, Zsolt Semjén, KDNP, István Simicskó, Máté KDNP, Kocsis, Fidesz, Zsolt Németh, Fidesz, Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz, and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, H/364. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I'll ask the author. [[No signal.]] The author does not wish to comment. I'm asking if you'd like to comment from the government. [[For signal:]] The government has indicated that they wish. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-18-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'll be brief. As I indicated in the general debate on the resolution proposal, the government supports the proposal before us, given that we Hungarians have a strong vision of the future of Europe, which does not coincide on several points with the ideas of the elite in Brussels. Unfortunately, it is also clear that the current contractual framework of the Union does not allow Hungarian proposals to be implemented and does not enable the European Union to hold its ground in the decade of crisis. It follows that the issue of revision of contracts should also be opened. As the proposal has not been affected by the intention to amend, I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal with their votes on the text proposed. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-264	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Zoltán Tessely, rapporteur for the Committee on European Affairs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5 July 2022, the European Affairs Committee held the meeting of the H/364. The detailed discussion of this proposal. Our Committee acted as a designated committee, so we also took a position on the proposed amendment. The general debate was not reached, but there was also a lively discussion of the committee's meeting. With regard to the presentation, let me recall that the aim of the series of conferences on the future of Europe in Hungary was to assess the views of Hungarian citizens and to convey them to Brussels. I myself participated in the work of the four-member parliamentary delegation, and unfortunately I had to admit that in European forums we heard not the voice of the citizen, but some institutional opinions in Brussels through several channels. At these conferences, therefore, positions aimed at deepening the Union, building empires and closer integration have been given much greater scope. The participants of the more than 800 events in Hungary sent a clear, clear message to Brussels, but in the final documents of the conference on the future of Europe the opinions and suggestions of the Hungarian people were not taken into account. That is why we considered it necessary for the Parliament to express the position of the Hungarian people in the debate on the future of Europe in a separate resolution. According to the majority position of the Committee on European Affairs, the pursuit of the European United States and the transfer of Member States' competences to the Union are incompatible with the interests of the Hungarian national interest. We also agreed that the European Commission should remain guardian of the treaties, build on the mutual respect of nation states and strengthen the EU role of national parliaments. These aspects were also included in the proposal for a decision. The amendment tabled by the Democratic Coalition was not supported by the Committee on European Affairs, as it is voting in favour of transferring Member States' competences to the Union. The Committee on European Affairs closed the detailed debate at the meeting on 5 July and submitted its report, and the minority position expressed by Gy. It will be on the part of Elizabeth Németh. Please support the resolution proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-18-266	Thank you, Congressman. I give you the floor, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, who presents the minority opinion of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-18-267	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. As I said at the committee meeting, and now the Vice-President of the Commission has said, the representatives of the Democratic Coalition have tabled an amendment to this proposal for a resolution, because, in our opinion, the original proposal does not cover and cannot cover the position of the Democratic Coalition on the Hungarian position to be taken on the future of the European Union. We believe that the European Union, as a party on the basis of European values and on the ground, is that the proposal for a resolution, which was submitted on behalf of the pro-government representatives, by Mr Nacsa, Mr Kövér, and the others, simply does not reflect or reflect the opinion of the Hungarian people. This is now, if not quite clear, but it is clear from your words that Congressman Tessely has also acknowledged this. I think that it is not a good practice that if Hungarian citizens express their opinion in a dislikable way or in a different way than that of the majority in the government, they will be accepted in a pro-government resolution proposal with the Honourable House. In our view, there is no need for the European Union to change the way in which the current European Parliament elections are held. We believe that the more democratic the European Parliament is, the more citizens of each Member State can choose the members of the European Parliament directly. The second, which is actually totally unacceptable to us, is the definitions and sentences that do not reflect the spirit of the European Union at all, and in our amendment we proposed that they be excluded. If the ruling parties were serious about the principle of subsidiarity being an important principle, and I think so, and the representatives of the Democratic Coalition believe that this is an important principle, then in the last 12 years, this country should have been guided, and the practical implementation of this principle should have been left to the local governments, for example, and enabled and qualified the local governments to comply with this principle, i.e. the principle of subsidiarity. That is why we tabled the amendment. I'm sorry the committee didn't accept that. And let me quote one more thing from the committee meeting. Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, had a very remarkable sentence when he said in this debate that those who took part in this particular 800 occasions when this series of debates was held in Hungary, so I think that if very few attended, according to the opinion of State Secretary Répássy, it is for this reason that the organizer of the debates and the Hungarian government in particular should be responsible. I am sorry that you did not support our amendment. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-07-18-268	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-269	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the general debate, we have expressed our party's views in detail, and I would like to add this very briefly. When this debate on the future of the Union began, and the preparation of a debate, I was still working in the Committee of the Regions, and I was a member of the European Union Committee of the Regions, a representative of the local government, a national delegation of 12 people. I have had the pleasure of doing this work for three years, and I myself have experienced that the functioning of the Union is indeed facing a great deal of challenges, and it is obviously very difficult for the Union to cope with the most important challenges of our time. It was also apparent that, unfortunately, in many respects, the functioning of the Union is opaque, with regard to certain processes that are undemocratic. At the same time, you did not bring these problems into the debate in the proposal for a decision and, moreover, in the debates over the past period. I am thinking, for example, that we know how many thousands of extremely well-paid lobbyists of various global multinational companies work there in Brussels, around the Commission. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: György Soros.]] We know that their operation is impenetrable. We know how they can enforce it, otherwise these multi-enterprises play their interests in EU decision-making with ease. [[19.30]] I have not yet seen you guys making any criticism of this, or, by the way, using the possibilities available to you, a proposal that would have made the EU more transparent in this way. Similarly, I found that not only during the three years I was a member of the Committee of the Regions, but also as a local politician actively monitoring public activities in previous parliamentary cycles, that you were more specific barriers both in domestic politics and at European level, and that without guarantees that were important for Hungarian national interests, you always supported unlimited free trade. So you have always been cheerful and happy to argue that we should indeed give up more and more parts of Hungary's self-determination, more and more, so that these free trade agreements can be established, and I have not noticed that they have specifically spoken against them in any way in the Union. In the case of the TTIP trade agreement or even the service trade agreements, it was the European Union's Green Party family that tried to carry on the European Citizens' Initiative, which the European Commission had undemocraticly canceled, even then in the form of such a petition. In particular, with regard to the Service Trade Convention, I was the only representative in the then national delegation who drew attention to the way in which the Union is preparing to give up the local government, local self-determination and, where appropriate, to put cities, districts and municipalities in a position to be vulnerable to the profits of multinational global companies through an international arbitration, i.e. through some lawyers. So this kind of freedom struggle couldn't even be experienced in traces of you. The most painful part of the debates over the last few years was that we had already held these debates as Members of Parliament; I was a Member of Parliament at the time, and I have always pointed out that the most serious tragedy in the Union today is migration, the fact that hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians have gone away for a living. Then you simply argued that there is no problem with this, that there is only a common European labour market and that this is a good thing. And I think that if you consider yourself a national politician, you have to fight so that everyone can thrive in their homeland, and you see it as a tragedy if hundreds of thousands of people migrate from the country, you see it as a tragedy that thousands of families break up. I think that the performance of a government in historical perspectives, in the longer term, can be judged by its ability to ensure the conditions for remaining in the homeland. I think you didn't do well in that. Indeed, we would expect the European Union to allow real balanced territorial development. So an important aspect, an important value, should be balance, is that the kind of policy that enforces the economic dominance of the core states and thus represents a huge loss of population for countries with weaker economic opportunities, this has certainly not been reflected in the Union's policy. What I still miss terribly, and you do not mention in any way in your proposal for a resolution that the Union does not give sufficient attention to the protection of our natural resources. In general, we believe that we need not more but a better Europe, for example a European Union that is able to take action to protect our common natural resources. In recent times, we have seen either the pollution of Sajó or the pollution of the tributaries of Tisza in Transylvania, that, indeed, when global large companies, where appropriate Canadian, American or any large company, are engaged in environmental destruction activities in the European Union, only in terms of profit, the Union is not fit to act. Even in the case of Sajó, the European Union has not helped the European Commission in spite of the upland activists who have turned to the European Commission. Similarly, the Union is indebted to a more effective representation of workers' rights. Obviously, you are not affected by this issue, as you are constantly pursuing a policy of putting the Hungarian employee in a more vulnerable position, based on the investment to invest in low-cost wage workers. And we think that we need a policy against this and that we must respect Hungarian workers fairly. This is also the way to combat emigration. One more thing, I think, is that we agree that we really need a Union that pays particular attention to the protection of the rights of indigenous national minorities. This appears in the document, and I think that we can agree on this issue. Overall, however, we agree with the Member, too, that a change in the order of elections to the European Parliament is not justified. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-07-18-270	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to respond. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No, thank you.]] No. I'd like to ask your author to take the floor.
u2022-07-18-271	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If I get a voice, more so. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for what has been said now and in the general debate. I'd like to react briefly first, Gy. To the words of Mrs Elisabeth Németh. He said that the Committee on European Affairs did not take note of the amendment. Not only did we acknowledge it, but we discussed it. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: They just didn't vote!]] We just decided not to support it. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Like this, like this!]] There was a discussion about it, and I explained on behalf of the authors what I think about the amendment proposal and why I do not consider it compatible with the original declaration and what we think about the future of the European Union and why we do not want European united states, why we do not want to see your vision in the way the European Union operates. I think we had a very long and important debate in the general debate at Parliament's plenary a few weeks ago, but it is clear that our proposal for a resolution that we have tabled is perhaps more relevant now, when it was adopted than it was presented, because the Union has taken more wrong steps in the direction that exacerbates the energy crisis and which will cause a livelihood crisis or even a food crisis on the European continent. The congresswoman misunderstood something in my fellow Member Tessely's words. He said that the Hungarian opinions were deleted; not pro-government opinions, but en blog Hungarian opinions on the website of the conference on the future of the European Union, where the conclusion of these conferences could be uploaded, the intellectual product and results of these workshops and various discussions could be uploaded, and Hungarian opinions were deleted from there with noble simplicity. But to be sure, I can give more than just Hungarian examples. Our Polish friends, our Spanish and Italian friends, have indicated that in order to avoid the color of the picture, the Commission can say that everyone is in favour of the European united states and only such visions have arrived, so they have deleted their opinions with a noble simplicity. In the spirit of European democracy, I think you will be able to ask your fellow parties outside, their opinions have been deleted. Not in Hungary, but in the centre of the European Union, Hungarian, Polish, Italian, Spanish and other opinions have been deleted, my fellow Member. This proposal for a decision was made in response to this, because if they do not take into account what the Member States say, if, as one of the most active countries, they do not take into account what European Union citizens say, because we were sixth in terms of the number of events, then it is necessary for a national Parliament to take action. Of European citizens, Hungarian citizens have authorised us Hungarian Parliaments to give our opinions on such issues, especially if they do not take their views into account. What makes a Hungarian citizen's opinion less than that of a Frenchman, my honourable fellow Member? What makes a Polish citizen's opinion less than that of a German? Are we second-class citizens, second-class EU citizens? I don't think so. That is why this proposal for a decision is important. The Secretary of State pointed out that those who attended this conference could, since he was open to everyone. Anyone who could organize this could register with the Ministry of Justice, since he was the owner of the Hungarian organization, anyone could register, anyone could come, anyone could say their opinion, and anyone could upload it, honourable fellow Members. The Secretary of State said that those who came made their views known, as 71% of citizens with voting rights at the parliamentary elections thought that they would come and share their views, and that this is the basis for the standing up of the present Parliament. This is how it works in all democracies, my honourable fellow Member. I would also like to respond to the words of Lóránt László Keresztes. As I understand it, the text of the resolution proposal and the points in it are not too much trouble for the Member, but lack of feeling and lack of certain things. I think that this is a good direction, because then it is worth voting in favour of this resolution proposal and it will be possible to expand and make more. I agree that there are topics, natural resources, the protection of cultural heritage, for example, or anything else worth talking about at EU level. That we have not mentioned the activities of lobbyists and people on international networks in Brussels many times in recent years, well, my honourable fellow Member, you have ridiculed our poster campaign about George Soros and his network. We have been trying to expose exactly how many and how many, including in your European party family, the Green Party, where the LMP sitting Member belongs, according to publicly available databases, on the payment list of George Soros, honourable Member. Well, that's exactly what we've been talking about over the years, that there's a network that works, and that it's acting against the nation states. [[19.40]] Well, we're finally on the same page, and we're talking about one thing. This is precisely what we have been talking about, that these networks are harmful and harmful, that they want to get involved, and that they often demand more power than a nation state has or is possible, and they demand them from the Brussels Commission. We also believe that this process is harmful, honourable Member. To stay in the homeland, I agree to the extremes, but to approach this issue in a different way. So it is not a tragedy, but everything must be done to make sure that anyone who has gone can come home and thrive at home, as hundreds of thousands of young people, for example, can thrive as workers or young entrepreneurs at home, start a family, create a home, and so on. It has to be demonstrated that this is possible in Hungary on the one hand, and the processes of the last ten years have pointed in this direction, as the average wage has more than doubled, for example, the resources spent on health care, education, and so on. Family support has been extended, so I could list it here, then we would never go home, that is not why we are here, but we have done everything we can to continue this in the future, so that Hungary is a place from which it is not worth going, but it is worth coming home from. And of course, if someone feels compelled to gain competitive language skills abroad, gain competitive skills, gain experience, we think it is a good thing, and we would be happy to build a country where they will be able to use this experience, competitive language skills and expertise at home for their own community. That is what the European Union should be about. It's not about that right now, but it should be about that. And on nature destruction, honourable Member, I would again like to suggest to you that you are part of the Group of the Greens. The Greens are a large parliamentary group in the European Parliament, although smaller in number, but in influence they also have an impact on the votes of liberals and socialists, as well as on the speeches of liberals and socialists. It is worth lobbying there for these cases, because often the Greens themselves do not take these matters on the agenda, because they consider it more important, for example, the Soros György lobby or any other global, such as the role of transnational lists, which you said should not be changed. After all, your party family wants transnational lists in the European Parliament elections. So I think it's important what you've raised, but it's worth starting with your own party family. We believe that the proposal for a resolution serves the purpose for which we have presented it. It's more recent than it was a few weeks ago, even though it was still topical, so I'm asking everyone to support it in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-18-272	Thank you. Honourable Members, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; István Simicskó, KDNP; István Hollik, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz; Lajos Kósa, Fidesz; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; László Pósán, Fidesz and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz, representatives submitted a submission by T/361. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would also like to announce that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The TAB's position will first be made known in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-273	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 14 July 2022 the T/361. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The main topics of the proposal before us, which amends the Fundamental Law, are the restoration of the name of the county in the public administration and the joint holding of municipal and European Parliament elections. The 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law allows the European Parliament elections and local government elections to be held in 2024 on one day, one of the important reasons for which is cost-effectiveness. Due to the economic difficulties caused by the war situation, it is reasonable and logical to save HUF 10 billion with the amendment. International examples also demonstrate the success of this form of conduct. Another important issue of the bill is the restoration of the name of the county. The fundamental unity of the Hungarian administration was considered by our predecessors as the county of the castle until 1949. The introduction of the county term was not a technically sound amendment, but a step towards the permanent abolition of our historical past. Restoring the counties brings back the continuity of our thousand-year history, which is an important element in preserving national freedom and sovereignty. This amendment of the Fundamental Law is of symbolic importance in the fight against repression, in the fight to preserve our traditions and values in our historical past. In view of this, I propose the adoption of a bill amending the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-18-274	Thank you, Congressman. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] No. Do you wish to comment on behalf of the government, Mr Secretary of State? (To signal:) Yes, please, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-275	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I would like to briefly point out that the government supports the bill, the amendment of the basic law.
u2022-07-18-276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Liliana Grexa, the Ukrainian ethnic advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, who is involved in the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-277	[[???Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr! Шановний пане Голово! Шановні депутати, представники національних меншин! Від імені Комісії національних меншин Угорщини та від себе особисто вітаю вас. За дорученням Комісії національних меншин Угорщини дoзвoльтe висловити нашу точку зору стосовно одинадцятої поправки дo Основнoгo закону Угорщини в paмкaх законопроекту Т/361.???]] Mr President, Honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I welcome you. As the spokesperson requested by the committee, please allow the title T/361. Following a detailed discussion, I should like to state our position on the legislative proposal tabled under number 1. The bill was put on the agenda at the committee meeting of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities held on 6 July 2022, and the parliamentary decision on certain house rules was 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee of the bill is the resolution house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Commission's amendment, which closed the detailed debate, did not come to the bill, and our committee did not intend to make any amendments, so the Committee decided not to submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. The amendment of the Fundamental Law is always closely monitored by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. In addition to the general principles and the foundations of the state's establishment, this legislation also contains the fundamentals of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. Therefore, we look at all of its amendments by looking at the impact that changes, which do not seem to have a direct impact on the lives and the future of our communities, have on all of them. As my Slovakian soloist has already said in the general debate, in Articles 1 and 2 of the draft that we are now looking at, it is precisely what is unfortunately not included in it. In other words, the provision transferring the election of local government representatives and mayors to a new date and connecting it with the elections to the European Parliament does not mention the future fate of local government elections held at the same time as the election of local government representatives and mayors. This, as indicated in the general debate, leads to uncertainties. Thank you for T/559 in the meantime. The proposal to amend the law on the rights of nationalities, tabled by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, included the clarification provisions on the general election of national authorities in 2024. [[19.50]] Thus, the anomalies of T/661 have actually ceased. These were previously established on the basis of a number of proposals. However, we continue to think that if the wording of Article 35 (2), which is now being amended, as well as point 27 of the final and mixed provisions, were to be explicitly included in the Fundamental Law, the term "election of representatives of the national minority self-government" in the appropriate places, it would make the legislator's intention absolutely clear. However, we agree with the aim and intention of the proposal to elect MEPs and hold local and national elections at the same time, as the running of electoral procedures at the same time will result in significant cost savings. Our Commission supports T/361. The proposal contained in Article 3 of the Bill No.3 as the ethnicities of Hungary are united in their traditions and historical heritage. This attachment to the legacy of the ancestors enables our communities not to become rootless and develop on solid, secure foundations, ensuring continuity over the centuries. These traditions unite our social organizations, our local governments and our community. We therefore understand and support the intention expressed in their proposal and in the explanatory memorandum by the authors of the current amendment to the basic law. On the basis of the above arguments, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities proposes to the Parliament the T/361. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. Дякуņза увагу! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-278	Thank you very much. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I don't see any Members speaking. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'm asking you to respond on behalf of the government. [[No one's reporting.]] No. [[For signal:]] The author wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-279	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As she said, the minority law will be amended, and, of course, there will be a minority self-government election at the same time, if Parliament accepts the amendment of the basic law tomorrow, that in the spring of 2024 the elections to the European Parliament and the elections to the local government can take place in April-May-June, and, of course, at the same time, the elections to the minority self-government. Very important institutions are national authorities, belonging to nationality identity, common administration and administration, the administrative centers of nationality life are also national authorities. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that these municipalities have a coherent role in the culture, education and civil life of nationality, which we all recognise and support. We therefore consider it important that, of course, the national elections do not depart from local elections in Hungary. That is why, of course, as she said, we are organising this in another law, and I believe that unity will be complete. I would ask my fellow Members to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-280	Thank you to the author. Of course, before the author, the debate was closed, which I forgot to say. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly follows in a row. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; István Simicskó, KDNP; Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; János Hargitai, KDNP; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz, representatives of T/369. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-281	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. a bill amending law and certain related laws. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As Hungary's Fundamental Law declares it in Article 1 (1), Hungary's main representative body is the National Assembly. It is self-evident that the amendment of the rules laying down the Parliament's operating framework will be given special consideration. In recent times, several events have shielded our daily lives to which we have had to adapt, and as a result, it has also become necessary to amend the Parliamentary Act. I am thinking, for example, of the war in Ukraine and of the inflation that has occurred as a result of the war, but we could also mention the policy of the leaders of the European Union on a number of points of concern, which has led us to reduce our operating costs in order to protect Hungarian families and businesses. The proposal amends, inter alia, the basic support to ensure the financing of the expenditure related to the operation of the fractions and the system of proportionate support per representative, thus preventing possible abuses. Under the proposal, the basic support part of the operational framework will not be allocated separately to the political groups in the future, but to the common list, which will be distributed equally among them. The support for Members, which is part of the other operational framework, amounts to 30% of the basic Members' Honorary Prize, multiplied by the number of the Group. The proposal therefore introduces a new complex calculation, since the system in which the Fidesz-KDNP fraction received a HUF 2.2 million monthly grant per representative, while a left-wing representative received HUF 3.1 million in support. If we didn't change it, the disproportion would continue to increase, which would cost Hungarian taxpayers HUF 4.5 million on a monthly basis, while a pro-government representative would cost HUF 2.7 million. This would mean that if we didn't change the system, the fractions would cost 6 billion HUF more in this cycle than in the previous four years. In the current war situation, this cannot be allowed. In recent years, the Hungarian property declaration system has been criticised countless times. To lift the situation, the proposal on the Parliament's table has decided to re-align the regime for the declaration of assets in Germany, which has been recognised throughout Europe and has been applied for years by the Members of Parliament of all EU countries. Behind this is the strengthening of the European Union's integration, the idea of a single regulation with European countries, to prevent future genderless attacks. In the future, the same obligation will apply to the Members of Parliament and the Hungarian European Parliament, who in both cases receive their mandate from the same electoral base, but have so far been subject to unjustified discrimination. The bill before us, of course, contains other technical amendments, in addition to those essential points, and I believe that the Parliament can function more effectively by adopting it. In view of all this, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-282	Thank you, Congressman. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] No. I'm asking if someone from the government would like to speak. (No one's reporting. ) No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-283	[[???Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir, die Meinung unseres Ausschusses über die Änderung des Gesetzes über dem Parlament und bestimmter damit zusammenhängender Gesetze mit Nummer T/369 zum Ausdruck zu bringen.???]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express our committee's opinion on Parliament's 2012 XXXVI. Act T/369 amending Act T/369 and certain related laws About bill No. 1. At the meeting of our Committee on 12 July 2022, it held a detailed debate on the bill and formulated its position. [[20.00]] The T/368. and T/369. I raised the issue of taking an oath in the nationality language of the national minority representative in the joint debate on 28 July 2022, and after the debate I submitted H/368/2. My amendment, which states that after taking an oath in the Hungarian language, the representatives of the nationalities and the representatives of the nationalities take an oath in the language of nationality, without being pre-read by their notaries. My amendment was agreed by the authors and included in the Committee of Justice with a minimum technical amendment, but with the same content H/368/3. I would like to thank you for the Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate. I also raised in the general debate, as rapporteur for the Commission's opinion, the need for clarification and uniform settlement of certain definitions of nationalities, as well as the use of the Parliamentary Act and the House Rule of Decisions. Both use the term "representation of nationality": a representative from a non-ethnicity list, but from an individual district or from a party list to a parliament, who openly undertakes to belong to an indigenous nationality in Hungary, and, on the other hand, a representative of the national minority and a representative of the national minority list. Obviously, the latter two are the same, a shorter but clear version of the term of representative who has obtained a mandate from the national minority list is the definition of "nationality representative." A similar question of interpretation has been raised with regard to ethnic advocates, as with national representatives. For example, Chapter 12 of the Parliamentary Act, including Chapters 29 and 29/A. This contradiction also existed between the sections of the section, since the title of Chapter 12. The provocative of nationality, while the two paragraphs referred to mentioned only a spokesperson. To sum up: since the term "speaker" appears only 22 times in the law, I suggested that there would be a clear and clearer definition of "nationality" everywhere. I am pleased to inform the House that the authors took my suggestion seriously and, in consultation with the Parliament's Office, the national minority advocates, the national minority representative and the national minority representative have been clearly defined, and amendments to the single use have been included in the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Act T/369 amending Act T/369 and certain related laws T/369/7. H/368 on the amendment to the Committee on Justice, which closed the detailed debate, and amending Parliamentary Decision No 10/2014 on certain house rules. H/368/3 submitted to the proposal for a decision. I would also like to thank all those involved. In view of the fact that our amendments were included in the Commission's amendments closing the detailed debate, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities did not make a separate amendment, as appropriate. In view of all this, overall, I can say that T/369. XXXVI of 2012 on the Parliament We agree with the bill amending law and certain related laws, which is supported and proposed by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause.]]
u2022-07-18-284	Thank you. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Gy. Erzsébet Németh, from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At this late hour, we must also speak a few words about this bill, which is the element of what I actually want to say gently about the abolition of the declarations of property, or leaving it in a blur that I think is quite simply unacceptable. I have also said this at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, and I would like to repeat it here in front of this House: you are doing nothing but what you have done in 2011 in the case of representatives of the local government, that you will simply not know the new declaration of assets, no matter how much you say it and you believe that the European Union's income and wealth declarations will be properly made by Members of Parliament here in Hungary, and by all the dignity of public law and by everyone who is listed in the amendment, to make a declaration of assets, but I think and think that this will simply not give a comprehensive picture of a politician when he enters politics, and then year after year, and when he is removed from politics, how and how he is enriched. You played this game for the first time in the case of municipal representatives, because in 2011 the law on the declaration of assets of municipal representatives was amended in December 2011 by including a sentence in paragraph 3 which states that, following the submission of a declaration by the municipal representative and his relative in the year in question, the statement of assets for the previous year will be returned to the representative by the committee for the assessment of assets. In English, if I have submitted my declaration of property this year, then the following year I will get this declaration of property back when I deliver the new one, so it is quite simply uncomparable and cannot be viewed. His true purpose is not achieved by the declaration of property, which would make his representatives grow. Now, in a similar way, obviously, there is a different method, a different basis, which you will take into account here. I think that in a country where it is quite clear that there are politicians, there are very, very many politicians who have become incredibly rich in politics... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány became rich not in politics, but in politics. I would also like to say to Congressman Nacsa that Ferenc Gyurcsány does not hire or hire either as Prime Minister or as Group Leader, and that he always uses it for charity. On the other hand, you want to hide the political assets again, hide it from the Hungarian citizens, and I think, as a representative of the Democratic Coalition, that this is not right. Mr Salacz said that the sanctions policy also justifies the drafting of this Parliamentary bill. I would just like to say to the Member that a sanctions policy has been voted by only one Hungarian politician so far, and he is called Viktor Orbán. If I remember correctly, the Hungarian Prime Minister gave his consent to every political decision with sanctions in the European Union. To sum up: I think that you, my fellow Members, should strive to make the declarations of assets something in which it is very easy to understand that if a Member uses his power, his elected mandate, to enrich himself, not to use his wealth, but his position to which the electorate has elected him. In a country where in 10 to 12 years someone can be the richest man in the country as a simple gasman, although mayor, we all know that about Lőrinc Mészáros, I think that this is not the way to go, and this is not the way to go. I ask the honourable pro-government majority to reconsider this. The declaration of assets has its place, and a declaration of assets that clearly reflects its current position of assets, and makes the enrichment of politicians and the growth of wealth comparable year after year. Thank you very much. [[20.10]]
u2022-07-18-286	Thank you. I give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just gonna talk to him very briefly. I also believe that it is important for the protocol to be made clear here that false information has been made available by the authors. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not changing the system of declarations of assets, but simply abolishing it. So what you are about to introduce as a model of a very bad European regulation is a statement of financial interest, and I am putting it a little more strictly, not only does it not give a sufficient, comprehensive picture of a politician's financial situation, but it does not give any picture of it. It occurred to me who was enriched here as a politician or who was wealthy in ways that were not lawful; Mr. Secretary of State, your immediate predecessor, Pál Völner. According to the DA's office, the Deputy Attorney General has been accepting a huge amount of bribes from the executor's mafia for years. Your predecessor was involved in the implementation of this mafia activity, and he worked closely with that man... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is there a court order?]] That's what the D.A. claims, and I said that according to the D.A.'s office, your predecessor is corrupt, and your predecessor has been taking a huge amount of bribes from one of the major executors of the executive mafia, who, by the way, I understand is the president of the Board of Executives of the Court right now. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Did the declaration of property help you with that?]] I think... [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Did the declaration of property help you?]]
u2022-07-18-288	Dear fellow Members, Let's hear each other out. Everyone has a chance to react afterwards.
u2022-07-18-289	Yeah. I also think, Mr Secretary of State, that this is an extremely unpleasant subject for the government. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: No!]] This is one of the most disgusting corruption cases of the Hungarian government, that if there were a system of declaration of assets that would also give an image of the situation of relatives and other assets in such cases, then I think that such wealth could be monitored. Now you are making a decision in which the system of property declarations in Hungary will be specifically abolished. You believe that Hungarian people have no right to know that they have no right to monitor the propertyisation of Hungarian politicians while they are in various public offices, so they make a decision to take away the opportunity from Hungarian voters to monitor it. They are doing this in a rather hypocritical way, as they are rightly criticising today in many respects, let us say, we are missing criticism in many respects of the European Union's operation, and they are taking over a practice that is clearly wrong in European operations, and I add that it is not necessarily wrong, but that is not what it is for, because it is a statement of financial interest, not a declaration of assets. You are taking this in a hypocritical way when it is clear that there have been serious cases of corruption here at the highest level. I think it's symbolic, though, that the D.O.J. claims to be corrupt and involved in maintaining and operating this mob. And when such a situation comes to light, how do you react? The system of declarations of assets will be abolished in Hungary. I believe that this is unacceptable and that this cannot be supported in any way. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-18-290	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State was two minutes old, there's no two minutes in this genre. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State, please.
u2022-07-18-291	Honourable Congressman, First of all, the Secretary of State, mentioned by you, has completed precisely the declarations of assets that you have now considered to be such a great tool. So you know that as a former Member of Parliament, you've kept giving me declarations of assets every year. That is why I was forced to note that the argument that perhaps this corruption case would have been exposed in the event of such a declaration of property was an illusion, so, of course, this corruption or any crime is, unfortunately, latent, i.e. it remains secret on the one hand. On the other hand, we also had a debate about this in the Legislative Committee of the Parliament, that the members of the government and, for example, the State Secretarys had already made a declaration of property three times this year: they first made a declaration of property on 1 January, this was the annual declaration of property, and then they made a final declaration of assets at the end of the term, and who was reappointed, and that made an opening declaration of property. So now the declaration of interest introduced by the Parliament will be the fourth time this year to account for their financial and income relations. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-292	Thank you. I give you the floor, Gy. Erzsébet Németh, from the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm really crying about the fact that the secretary of state has to give so many statements of property. That's all I needed, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert:]] 'Cause it had to be given as a municipal representative, and I think we're still in this room with other people who need more. I think that it does not in any way save the responsibility of the government and the government representatives, that if you know precisely that this current declaration of property is wrong, on the basis of which Paul Völner, as the prosecution suspects, has been enriched here with corruption money over the past 12 years, why have you not done anything about it. Why didn't you reform the property statements, the property declaration procedure? Don't tell me it's being reformed now. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes!]] 'Cause now it's just gonna be wiped clean. Moreover, if I remember correctly or read correctly in the TAB's summary amendment, around August 5th, or how we will have to do so. I heard from the Bureau today that these papers aren't actually ready yet, they don't know when they'll be ready, how they'll be ready, I hope they'll be ready for time. But once again, Mr Secretary of State, you would have had 12 years because of the previous few decades, if this is really the declaration of property... and that is the opinion of everyone, and not just of the professionals, not just the Members of Parliament, even I would have risked that the opposition at any time, when you were in opposition, obviously thought in the same way, why they didn't do anything and why they didn't reform this declaration of property. No, you envied the mayors that they didn't need and didn't have a comparable declaration of assets, and now you think the same thing should apply to the Members of Parliament. I think that this is the wrong way to go, not in this direction, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Nacsa Lőrinc, rapporteur, but to make an honest, normal declaration of wealth every year to the Member from which citizens see that beyond the money that we receive in this House, there really is no extra money, and for whom the law allows it, it can be, and we do our work normally and fairly, we are transparent about our wealth and wealth. Thank you. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2022-07-18-294	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to László László Keresztes, please.
u2022-07-18-295	Dear Secretary of State, In principle, your job, the Ministry of Justice, should be the keeper of the fight against corruption. Turns out, in recent years, as the D.A.'s office has revealed, the second man in your ministry, the Deputy Minister of Justice, has been acting in a corrupt way, taking bribes. So he didn't fight corruption, he sort of operated this corrupt system, he was part of this system. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: No judgment!]] So you're forced to admit it, because you've admitted it's something very, very bad, so the regulations are not right, that if the second man of the Justice Department could carry out such terrible and disgusting corruption for years, so that your boss didn't realize it, then there's something very wrong here. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: According to suspicion!]] My question, Mr Secretary, is what conclusion has been drawn from this, what changes have been made to prevent corruption from reaching such a high level, so that the Deputy Minister of Justice is not involved in such corruption. That's the conclusion? Yeah, well, if you're wrong or you couldn't filter out the otherwise bad system of property statements, should we even abolish the system of asset statements? So the fight against corruption will be an important step in sweeping the problems under the carpet so that the Hungarian people don't see how politicians are wealthy? I think that you owe to the Hungarian people to take meaningful steps in the fight against corruption, and by the way, they also owe us, we know that you have endangered EU funds, one of the European Union's most important reasons is that there is corruption at historical level. So with this irresponsible policy of allowing corruption to reach such a high level and to be so extensive in Hungary, you have put the European Union's money for Hungarian people in jeopardy. Compared to that, you will also abolish the system of declarations of assets. Mr. Secretary, one more thing: we know that according to the DA's office, Pál Völner has been anointed by György Schadl for years, perhaps 80 million forints is suspected by the prosecutor's office that he has received so much as the president of the Hungarian Executive Faculty. I asked Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, a question that you replied to, how this corrupt man from prison could be president of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty. You replied that, therefore, simply because, according to the rules, he can no longer act as an executive, but that does not preclude him from being President of the Executive Faculty. That's amazing. So you do not feel, Mr. Secretary of State, that something has gone very, very wrong, and that this system should be transformed, so that these corrupt people cannot remain in such important positions, and that what is happening now, in Hungary, is the practice that even in prison, these corrupt bastards are making amazing money? [[20.20]] I think that we should fight corruption, that we should put a binding attitude on it, and then perhaps there would be a chance that Hungarian people will be given the EU's support they deserve. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-18-296	Thank you, Congressman. I do not see any further comments; the debate is closed. I'm going to ask if someone would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] No... [[Dr. Répássy Robert: Ehh! Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The Secretary of State convinced you. Here you go. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Well, there was a question, quite a few!]]
u2022-07-18-297	I'm sorry, I'm only speaking to him because the congressman spoke to me, but you know that this doesn't belong to this law, so what's new about the Executive Faculty is a very different problem. I only indicated to you in an answer what the law in force was. We are sitting here in the legislative room, so we can change the laws, but I do not think that we can correct these laws retroactively. But the law of execution... [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] "The Act of Enforcement tells us how long who can hold the Presidentship of the Executive Faculty, "that if we change this law, it is likely, in my understanding, that it will be a future rule. However, you are right that it cannot be tolerated that an executor who has suspended from his office or, more specifically, does not exercise his activities can be the chairman of the faculty, so there is no debate between us, but how long this condition can last, what the consequences of this can be in a legal sense, I cannot judge. Another sentence on the subject of the bill, on the matter of property declarations. I have been a member of the Parliament for a long time, but I have been a representative for twenty years, and the declarations of assets have been constantly tightened by the Parliament, and all the Members of Parliament have constantly revealed their financial situation to the public, and these declarations of assets have been constantly criticised. Therefore, as I read the presentation of the authors, it was thought that they would then choose the European Union solution, the EU property declaration which is, by the way, identical to the German declaration of assets, so that the declaration of assets used in Germany is being introduced; I could also say that this is a legislative harmonisation activity, we are approaching the Hungarian rules to EU law. However, I think it is very important to say again that the members of the Hungarian Government and the State Secretarys and everyone who was obliged to make a declaration of assets have made their declaration in the last month, so the problem you have said or outlined is that the financial situation of politicians cannot be seen, at least in the short term it is certainly not true; in the short term you can see the starting point. Compared to this, the statement that we are about to introduce now gives an idea of what economic interests a politician has, what other income he has outside of politics. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: This was already included!]] Congresswoman, all I can tell you is that you're probably misinterpreting that municipal rule here. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] It is a question of whether the local authorities have made public their declaration of assets on their website or in some way. [[Lot. On the mark of Erzsébet Németh:]] But it was made public, because the representatives of the municipality also make a public declaration of property. So they made it public, anyone could have downloaded it, used it, otherwise it was written in local newspapers who had what. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Only after that is not a legal source for comparison, that is the problem!]] and then uploaded his current asset statement to the website. So for a year there was a declaration of property that anyone could have downloaded it, anyone could have used it. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Yes...!]] , you could have been informed of it and then uploaded the current asset statement for the following year. So I don't think there's anything wrong with that. By the way, I saw that it was also used, especially in the Metropolitan Municipality, by the representatives of the Metropolitan Assembly, the... [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Because there we had to modify the metropolitan text separately, so...]] I'm sorry, the... [[The president's ringing the bell. Lot. Erzsébet Németh:...to be seen as a source of law, which has already been posted on the website!]] So I think it's just an IT problem, so to put it this way, you just had to download the asset statement, and then you can download the next year's asset statement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-298	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the author. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-299	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to give my answer in two, first I would like to respond to the voice of Mr Ritter, Member of the national minority. I think that we have welcomed these amendments, we have already spoken to each other during the general debate, and I say that either the oath or the clarifications have improved this law, so thank you very much for your work and for the work of the minority committee on this. I think there may be no debate on this issue in front of the Parliament's public opinion. What you're in, I'd like to get to that, because I hear there are some. [[Lot. Elizabeth Németh: Yes!]] Firstly, my fellow Members, especially the DK faction and its prominent representative, Gy. Mrs Erzsébet Németh, I would like to ask you to tell me how many times over the last few years the MEPs of the Democratic Coalition have criticized the Union's declaration of assets, the European Parliament's system of declaration, not God, the German, but in the European Parliament they are Members of the European Parliament, whether Klára Dobrev or Sándor Rónai, but how many of them have criticized, Madam honourable Member, the European Union's declaration of assets? The European Union also calls it a declaration of assets, so it doesn't matter what we call it, we can call it anything, but if you go up to the European Parliament's website, you can enter the Hungarian language in all 27 Member States, right, the European Parliament's website is available, so if you hit Klara Dobrev, you can look at the congresswoman from the bottom of the third point of the statement of assets, and then you can scroll down there and open the statement by Klára Dobrev, which she has made according to the European Parliament's declaration system, and she has complied with her legal obligations. So I would ask the honourable Member because... [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: The problem is that I can't answer you, Congressman, because you always ask when you can't answer!]] we were looking for a system, because the Hungarian property declaration system, Congresswoman [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: But I will say without debate that the People's Party has voted off these initiatives!]] the Hungarian property declaration system has been criticised several times over the last 12 years, not even once by the European Parliament. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That's not true!]] And the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian declaration of assets system is now being set up as one of the most stringent in Europe, but as it is now the solution to all problems. The property declaration system is not a law enforcement agency. The declaration of assets system is not a post-corruption body, it is not such an institution, and that is correct, it is not for that purpose. Corruption is for the Central Detective Attorney General, the District Attorneys' Office, the police, and so on, there are specialised bodies, my fellow Members. Have you ever heard of a crime in the world? I don't care where the horseshoe happens, but have you ever heard of any of the crimes that are corruption crimes, I'm judging you, but have you ever heard of the fact that, by the way, the statement of property has revealed this to the congressman? The parking place in Zugló, Csaba Horváth, Zsolt Molnár, Csaba Tóth, and so on, did you find out from your declaration of wealth, my fellow Members, that you should not just give an example from this side? It turned out that the authorities were doing their job. That's why every year we try to increase your budget to the police, to the Ministry of Interior, to the Detective Attorney General, and so on, and it's right that they do their job. The declaration of assets, and however it is called, the declaration of assets is an important element of our democracy, it is important that the income image, such as the influenceability, where the income of Hungarian Members of Parliament or even MEPs comes from, and thus, let us say, can be influenced by the fact that if you go through the declarations of assets of Members of the European Parliament, you can see a lot of interesting things there and you can understand their voting behaviour, whether they are sitting in the supervisory board of global companies or elsewhere. Compared to that, my fellow Members and the Secretary of State have said here that we are taking over the European Parliament's declaration of assets, but that is only part of the truth. We are going through this together with the most stringent conflict of interest rules in Europe, because we have the strictest conflict of interest rule in Europe. Not in the European Parliament. There could be any number of jobs there, you just have to call it in. There can be any number of jobs and there can be any number of gainful activities for Members. Not in Hungary. The few exceptions that Gy. Erzsébet Németh mentioned that, apart from the few exceptions, Hungarian Members of Parliament must have no other source of income or income. It is listed in the law as to what the exception is. So we are taking over not only the European Parliament's declaration of assets, which, by the way, has so far met you in one, but this is accompanied by the strictest conflict of interest rule in Europe, honourable Members, do not forget this. [[20.30]] These two are true together, and we get the full picture when we talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sorry, but I'm not gonna let him go. He said that Ferenc Gyurcsány got rich from pre-political times. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That's right.]] Well, if we call politics democracy after the '90s, then that's true if we don't call it politics first. The Hungarian Orange cannot be accused of pro-government deflecting, perhaps both of us can acknowledge that. Let me just quote this one sentence:,... because the rise of Altus and the other companies is truly inseparable from the exploitation of the connections of Gyurcsány party states. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Congressman, Viktor Orbán and his family, when did they get rich?]] I did not write it, my fellow Members, it was not written by the Hungarian Nation, it was not written by HírTV, it was written by the Hungarian Orange, honourable Member. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Don't joke around, because I don't think this is good.]] You brought this here. I just wanted to say this quote, Madam honourable Member, because this debate today is complete if we bring it here because it has happened. I understand that now the honor of the mundane or the honor of the boss must be protected, but it is true. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: No, I'm telling the truth.]] I would like to say in summary, ladies and gentlemen, that, as I have just said, this is how we can understand this debate, and I think, although many of its elements have not been discussed now in the context of the amendment of the Parliamentary Act, but I think that what you have objected to in the amendment of the TAB is a correct procedure, that if there is a system of declaration of assets that applies to Members of Parliament, then it should clearly apply to members of the Media Council or members of the Constitutional Tribunal and so on. For example, the National Assembly elects the Constitutional Judges, or the National Assembly elects the members of the Media Council, or the Ombudsman is elected by the Parliament. It is right that the officials elected by Parliament make a declaration of property similar to that of the Members of Parliament, for example for the sake of comparability. I think that whether it is the faction financing or the other rules, for example, that we are making it more relaxed between the factions that start on a list, they are all I hope; and then time will decide on the effectiveness of the functioning of the Parliament. So I'm asking you to support the law in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-300	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. [[ANNEX II 24.]] Discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Decision and of the draft amending proposal. Presentation by representatives of Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, István Simicskó, KDNP, Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz, Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz, Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, Imre Vejkey, Imre KDNP, János Hargitai, KDNP, H/368. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the TAB's position will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-18-301	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 14 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. H/368 on the proposal for a decision amending Decision N°GY. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a resolution before us provides the opportunity to cross the political groups on the common list and amends the rules for group formation. At present, the House Rule does not allow Members of the Group to join any other political group; the termination of membership of the Group always results in the Member becoming independent and no longer joining any other political group. The current rules do not allow electoral will to prevail, as legitimacy is not based on the faction to which the Member belongs, but on the party list, a common party list, or a candidate for a party in a single constituency or a joint candidate. The proposal also sets out the number of people required to form a political group for the next parliamentary term in five, as well as proposals relating to the functioning of the Parliament and the speeches made by its Members. The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment consisting of substantive and technical clarifications for the proposal. With the adoption of the proposal, the effectiveness and legitimacy of the functioning of Parliament can be increased. So I ask you to support it with your vote. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-302	Thank you, Congressman. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to speak, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Répássy Robert says no.]] He doesn't want to. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. There's no way to make a two-minute comment. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm asking the government representative if you'd like to speak now, at the end of the day. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: I do not wish.]] I give the floor to the author. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-303	Thank you. Just one sentence, Mr. President. My fellow Member presented the amendments tabled by the members of the Government with the TAB modifier. I secretly hope that tomorrow we will adopt this law with a slightly larger majority than the pro-government factions and pro-government representatives. The obstacle to sitting in the DK faction was removed from Peter James's sight now that he had been replaced. We'll see what tomorrow brings. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-18-304	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the subject of elections and the amendment of related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/367. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the TAB's position will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-305	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/367 amendment of certain electoral and related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law of Hungary lays down in Article 2 (1) that voters are entitled to exercise their suffrage on the basis of universal and equal suffrage, by direct and secret voting, in an election ensuring the free expression of the will of voters. It can be said that the Hungarian parliamentary elections in 2022 were never accompanied by such high international interest. It illustrates this statement that the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE Panel of Inquiry, has delegated 312 observers from 45 countries, who have found that the election was democratic, has taken place under appropriate legal conditions, and that technical conduct has not left any confusion. The president of the National Election Office already anticipated in his report at the Parliament's inaugural meeting that, following the evaluation of the electoral procedure with the heads of the regional and parliamentary single mandate constituency electoral offices, he would propose legislative amendments to the elections on the basis of their practical experience and lessons learned from them. The main amendments included in the proposal include the XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure. Law, Ve. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) is authorised provided that all of the following conditions are met: The proposed amendment states that the Hungarian electoral committees also have the power to investigate violations committed outside Hungary. Furthermore, there is a significant change in the National Election Committee that, in the case of members appointed by the parties with a political group in the National Assembly, the legal university degree and, in the case of faction delegates, it will determine at a later date, on the day of the formation of the next Parliament, and at the same time eliminate the period of time when the NVB operates without the appointed members. It should be pointed out that, on the basis of the proposal, a maximum of 800 voters may be allocated to a voting venue or sub-voting circle if the register is divided into several parts. This amendment also facilitates the smooth conduct of the vote. [[20.40]] The initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. With regard to the amendment of law, the proposal sets an 8-day deadline for the validation of the referendum issue and a 30-day deadline for decisions of the Constitutional Court. With regard to the amendment of Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code, it is important to highlight the provision that employers are required to allow workers to participate in the elections of Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, Members of Local Government and Mayors, and representatives of national governments, as well as in the referendum. The bill before us contains, of course, other amendments than those essential points. By adopting them, I believe that the conduct of elections and referendums and the provision of technical conditions would be even more effective. In view of this, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-306	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the author, he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-18-307	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to briefly describe the main points of the summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee. The proposal sets the deadline for the notification of international observers, on a complementary basis. In order to facilitate the exercise of suffrage, the proposal also allows the citizen to be certified by the naturalisation document in the absence of an official identity or identity card in the course of completing the identification declaration. Furthermore, the proposal clearly settles the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the law on the referendum procedure in order to ensure full compliance with the requirement of the norm as part of legal certainty 69. The question raised in relation to paragraph 2 of Section 2. The provision of the referendum law in question does not give a clear orientation to the question that, if a national referendum is set on several issues on the same day, the 300-minute period laid down in the referendum law was granted to those entitled to publish political advertising on a question-by-case basis, or the 300-minute period is independent of the number of questions, so the 300-minute period should once be divided into all questions. Dear House, Honourable Members, I think it's important to say again that T/367. The legislative proposal No 1 contains the proposals made by the National Election Office and the electoral law enforcement bodies. The proposal is justified by the election of the members of Parliament in 2022 in the joint procedure and by the experience gained during the national referendum, which made it necessary to clarify and amend certain detailed rules. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-18-308	Thank you for your speech. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, rapporteur of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities related to the debate, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-309	Postovani Gospodine Predsjednice! Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Postovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Postovani drzavni tajniče! At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 6 July 2022, the House Rules of Decision are 44 and 45. T/367 on the amendment of certain electoral laws and related laws He held a detailed debate on the whole of Draft Law No 13, thanking the Secretary of State for his written reply. Our Commission has found that the bill complies with the House Rule 44. § 1 of the provisions. It did not take a position on the proposed amendment to the draft law, in accordance with previous practice, nor did it make its own amendment in the present proceeding. However, in view of the comments made in the debate and the content of the proposals, our committee will put on the agenda, during the current legislative term, the provisions of the electoral procedure and related laws on nationalities, and will draw up a textual proposal to give effect to national interests. Dear Parliament, The T/367. The following comments were made on some of the provisions of the bill No 1. We still consider the XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure to be a limitation of rights. Law hereinafter referred to as "Ve." amending its sections, which provide for the composition of the National Election Committee and the eligibility of its members. The national minority self-government, as the delegates of the nominating organisation setting up a national list at the parliamentary elections, has even been deprived of the right to vote on ethnic matters. It is an indisputable fact that the representative of nationalities, his advocates, like the party lists, competed with them and acquired their mandate and mandate on a list. According to the new draft text, a further member of the National Election Committee will be appointed by the parties to which Members form a political group in the Parliament. The presence of nationalities in the Parliament is indisputable, so full membership of the Commission must also be regulated, at least in relation to matters of nationality. In our view, the right to self-government is being undermined by the fact that, in the case of certain self-dispersals, disbanding links the establishment of an interim election to the local budgetary conditions. Of course, we agree and support the principles of responsible and efficient management of public funds, but the education, cultural self-management and autonomy of a minority community should not depend on the behaviour of their irresponsible representatives. It is well known that national authorities do not have sufficient resources to conduct the interim elections. In the future, it is necessary to find a way for the central budget to advance the costs of the interim election for these reasons, even from a force majeure framework. Dear Secretary of State, Since the general debate, it has been reassuring that, as a result of the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law, the mandate of the bodies of the national authorities currently holding mandates is not until the next general election. The T/559 before the National Assembly. Point 121 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities sets out the provisions of Article 75 of the Law on the Rights of Nationalities. Between paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 (a). The term of office of the Assembly, the Assembly and the President shall run until 1 October 2024. I ask for your support. It is comforting for us that the Legislative Committee is T/367. Opinion No 12 of the summary amendment tabled to the proposal for a regulation No. 12, which is part of the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. 307/D. Paragraph 2 of this Article proposes that paragraph 2 be deleted. [[Sic!]] The Committee recommends that paragraph 4 be deleted. (Sic!) T/559, also mentioned. and the section is re-regulated by the bill No 1 on the basis of which the Election Committee should continue to check the statutes of the minority association in terms of whether it is a nationality organisation in relation to the minority self-government elections. In the future, of course, there should be consistency between the form of the association in the court register of civil society organisations, the form of the minority association and the wordings adopted by the court, as laid down in the statutes, which fulfil the conditions applicable to the minority association. In this case, the intention of simplifying the procedure set out in the original proposal, as formulated by the electoral bodies, may prevail. This is confirmed by the record sheet of the two national minority organisations before me, which also contains anomalies for two nominating organisations. The 2013 LXXXVII on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament was added to the 21st edition of the Legislative Committee's summarised amendment. Act No 1 Annex 1 (a). The Committee maintains its intention to further modify campaign funding in view of the specific electoral status of the minority communities. In addition, support should be given to the number 17 of the legislative committee's summarised amendment proposal, which is set out in Article 149 on the rights of nationalities. The President of the Council of the European Union, acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, [[20.50]] Dear House, In addition to maintaining the above comments and predicting further changes, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities proposes to support the amended and amended bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-18-310	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't think anyone wants to talk to you. The debate is therefore closed. I ask the rapporteur, and he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to comment. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and on the amendment of certain laws to the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/559. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the TAB's position will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-311	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 14 July 2022 the Legislative Committee discussed certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and T/559 concerning the amendment of certain laws to the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is CXXVI of 2010 on the capital and county government offices and on the amendments to the laws relating to the establishment of the metropolitan and county government offices and territorial integration. Revision of the provisions of Law No 13 and the transposition of the necessary regulations into a new law. The bill contains regulations on the operation, processing and certain services of the metropolitan and county government offices, which are applied at the moment. The bill establishes the proper implementation of the legislative obligation arising from the provisions of the Fundamental Law by amending the laws on local authorities, national authorities and electoral procedures. The amendment of the bill creates the consistency of three types of elections, so the general election of local government representatives and mayors, the election of representatives of national self-governments and the election of MEPs should be maintained at the same time. The proposal also requires a change in the provisions on the territorial division of the country, given that the name of the counties is changed to the county counties. The Legislative Committee has adopted a substantive and legal amendment to the proposal. Please vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2022-07-18-312	Thank you, Congressman. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-313	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The main task of the bill before us is to comply with the legislative obligation resulting from the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law and to create a legal unity. László Salacz, appointed rapporteur for the Committee on Legislative Affairs, mentioned several things that were included in the proposal. The bill manages the task of amending the laws on local governments, national authorities and electoral procedures, which are raised as a result of the amendment of the basic law. I have already mentioned the details of this in part in the general debate, and I do not wish to discuss them any further. However, I would like to mention, in addition to the above, those proposals: there are also a number of forward-looking legislative amendments, among which I would like to highlight the 2016 CLVI on public tasks in the development of tourist areas. the amendment of the Act, according to which, on the basis of the digitalisation efforts that have already been implemented, from 2020 all domestic accommodations will have to use accommodation management software to administer their bookings and guest data, but at present in many cases a paper guestbook should also be kept for the declaration of tourist tax. The online recording and reporting of accommodations has now become a stable system, so that the digitalisation and reduction of administrative burdens in the sector can continue. One of the essential elements of this process is the publication of a paper guestbook, which would lead to the fact that accommodation providers would no longer be subject to double registration obligations in the future, and that the registration of guests would also be faster. According to the law, as of 1 January 2023, the service provider would manage the administration of the tourist tax declaration in accommodation facilities only in the accommodation management software. In addition, notaries could only verify the data on tourist tax returns of individual accommodation service providers for the years 2023 and later, on the basis of the information contained in the software. The measure would further reduce administration at check-in and would increase the security of guest data. Dear House, The bill also amends the law on national higher education. The new regulation is adapted to the systemic review of increasing institutional autonomy and its responsibilities, as well as the mandate. As a result, the maintainer of the higher education institution refers to the definition of the credit value and study average of the reclassification, thus making our higher education law sub-subsidiary compared to Community decisions on higher education. This means that, according to the rules so far, the State had the power to transfer students from a paid-up study relationship to a State-funded legal relationship, or vice versa, and now it is up to the institution itself to decide that. Dear House, During the debate of the Legislative Committee on higher education issues, it was said that the National Assembly would take a retrospective decision on the so-called reclassification rules from a school year which has already been completed, thus the regulation would jeopardise legal certainty. I would also like to emphasise that the Government does not propose such a decision to the honourable Parliament. The reclassification itself means that public scholarship students who have not obtained a certain number of credits or who have not reached a certain academic average should be transferred to self-paid training, but at the same time the possibility of becoming state scholarships for the best learners. The reclassification rules for 2022 have been known since 2014, when the government adopted the legislation that is still in force today. The bill would allow the maintainer to deviate from the current regulation in the case of reclassification, but this would only be done by keeping guarantee rules. Dear Parliament, According to the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law, Hungary's territory is divided into capital cities, towns and villages. For centuries, the county had been the protective bulwark of the Hungarian nation until after the Second World War, with the occupying Russian troops behind its back, the Communist Party wiped out our traditional Hungarian territorial institutional system and set up the system of council on a Soviet basis. This act was also part of what the Communists intended to do to break the continuous ties that lasted for centuries, such as our national heroes such as Lajos Kossuth, Ferenc Deák and Ferenc Kölcsey. In political terms, they are both born in the Hungarian county, and we can still be proud of their nation-building work. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the above, I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-18-314	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who describes the first sentences in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-07-18-315	[[???Köszönöm. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt mit der Gesetzänderung Nr. T/559, zu bestimmten Fragen der Tätigkeit der regionalen öffentlichen Verwaltung sowie zur Änderung bestimmter Gesetze im Zusammenhang mit der elften Grundgesetzänderung erörtere.???]] [[21.00]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, to express our position at T/559. on certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and amending certain laws relating to the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law. At the meeting of the Committee on 12 July 2022, the Committee held a detailed debate on the bill and established its position. In view of the fact that, like in the past two cycles, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities will submit a separate legislative package for Njtv, electoral and related laws in autumn, no later than next spring, and therefore this T/559. We did not make use of the motion to amend the legislative proposal. At the same time, in the context of the simultaneous holding of local government, minority self-government and EP elections, with which we already agree, it is absolutely necessary to emphasise that this will be the greatest burden and difficulty for national electors in the first place. For as long as the average understanding is not registered in the minority register, voters will receive four ballots: mayor elections, municipal councils, county assembly and EP elections; while the national electorate will receive up to three additional ballots: municipal, county and national minority self-governments, so a total of 7 weeks of different ballot papers. In addition, the electoral papers for the national minority and national minority self-governments in the county of Vármegy are often not counted and aggregated in the respective electoral district, but transported and aggregated elsewhere. In this context, national voters have received previously green and white envelopes of different colours, which require separate rules for their national votes; there are specific rules on what happens if these envelopes include a non-national ballot; what if the envelope is not closed and the rest, I do not want to add any more? In summary, the merger of elections does not make it easier for national voters to vote in elections. But not only does it not make matters easier for national voters, but the work of the electoral district presidents and members is obviously also becoming more complicated. We therefore now draw the attention of the government, the electoral bodies, to the need for much more detailed and thorough information and preparation, both for national voters and for local electoral bodies conducting elections. Obviously, on the part of all 13 national minority self-governments, all local minority self-governments, ethnic associations and interest organisations, we will do everything we can to inform and prepare national voters as much as possible, but this will not replace or trigger the obligations of electoral bodies in this respect. This is particularly relevant to the preparation of local electoral bodies, since there is no impact on this by national minority organisations. Mr President, Dear House, It is in the common interest of all of us that the elections to the local government, the municipal elections and the elections to the county and the elections to the EP be held as regularly and effectively as possible, and the preparation of the national elections is the most complex. That's why I want everyone's attention and help in advance. In the light of what has been said, on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, T/559. We support the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause.]]
u2022-07-18-316	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I do not see any comment, and there is no two-minute speech during the debate. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to answer. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Lóránt László Keresztes, from the group of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of our city, Pécs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-317	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the 2023 budget ended here in Parliament, and I think that the voters of Pécs and Baranya have the right to know the facts of how the government supported it, how the representatives of the governing parties supported the amendments tabled for our city and county. The parliamentary group of the LMP has submitted nearly 160 amendments, which have been substantiated in detail. Most of the proposals were also related to environmental issues, sustainability and energy security, public services, water supply issues, and, despite detailed justifications and thorough presentation, none of our proposals were supported by the pro-government majority. Unfortunately, this was also the case for my amendments for Pécs and Baranya. This is not good news, but I think they have a right to know the truth, they have a right to know the reality of the local voters. I put a motion before the committee and Parliament in order to finally develop the lower road network of Baranya county, I wanted to propose HUF 3 billion, which was voted off by the pro-government representatives. In order to enable Pécs and its catchment area, Pécs and Baranya County to build a single, well-equipped and secure Community transport system, I proposed HUF 2 billion for this purpose, which was also not supported by the pro-government representatives. We know that the regeneration of one of Hungary's largest industrial landscapes has virtually stopped after the last few years' work, and the construction company and the thermal power company who are obliged to work claimed that there are no resources, no resources on the part of the state, so I proposed HUF 2 billion, and unfortunately, the Fidesz-KDNP group voted against this as well. I suggested that the city of Pécs, the city of Pécs, in a difficult economic situation, be given 3 billion forints in support of local transport in Pécs and the development of the fleet, unfortunately this was not supported by the government representatives either. We know that around 2015-16, a procurement reeking of corruption changed Pécs's vehicle park, its public transport fleet, and we know that these vehicles, the once used Volvo buses-- were then eight and a half years old and matured for the exchange, and despite the fact that this is a corruption case that took place during the Fidesz period, which I reported years ago, and the case is already in court, the Fidesz-KDNP did not support Pécs in this way to purchase a new bus fleet. I have already talked a lot about the extremely difficult situation of the water utility sector in the local Parliament, as well as in local politics. In order to achieve a substantial development here, I proposed HUF 3 billion, and we know that in Pécs, in the supply areas of the House of Tettye, the lack of funds for the 15-year period was not supported by the majority in favour of the government either. Similarly, I proposed a grant of HUF 650 million for the city of Komló and HUF 450 million for the reconstruction of the water utilities, unfortunately these proposals did not receive a vote of support either. We know that the city of Pécs was already in a very difficult situation in 2019, that with nearly 20 billion dollars of debt, the current city leadership took over the city, and that the global economic crisis resulting from the outbreak of the Crown Virus has put the city in a very difficult position. I proposed HUF 5.7 billion to eliminate these negative economic impacts, unfortunately the majority of Fidesz-KDNP did not vote for this either. I have proposed HUF 480 million to Pécs, HUF 50 million to the city of Komló, HUF 27 million to the city of Kozármisleny, unfortunately these proposals were not supported. And a very, very important issue in the field of uranium mining, in connection with the former uranium mining activity, is the unending recultivation task. We know how unrecoverable environmental destruction was caused by the former uranium mining in the Kővápőszőszőlő region, and I proposed to continue this reconstruction work for HUF 500 million, and Fidesz-KDNP did not support this either. [[21.10]] I think that every voter in Pécs and Baranya should see the reality of the support that Pécs and Baranya counties actually receive and also see the lobbying power and the lack of lobbying power of the Fidesz MPs elected in Pécs and Baranya; I think you should also see this. Unfortunately, these are not good news, but I will remain the representative of the Parliament of Pécs and Baranya, and I will continue to represent the interests of the county and my city. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-07-18-318	Thank you, Congressman. Katalin Csöbör, from the Fidesz Group, has applied for a post-meeting speech: the subjective sense of security of the residents has become critical over the last two years in downtown Miskolc. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-18-319	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In Miskolc and around the past 12 years, significant improvements have been made: the M30 motorway has been built, the Miskolc bypass, the Miskolc-Kassa motorway section, the Ellipsum experience and beach bath has been renovated, the Beach of Selymrét has been reopened, the DVTK sports complex has been built, the renovation of the Diósgyőr Castle and the construction of the Y-bridge, which will help the everyday transport of people in Martinkertváros and Szirman. By the way, the bridge is planned to be delivered this autumn. On the one hand, we wanted to make Miskolc and its surroundings attractive again among investors so that we could create new jobs for the people around us, while at the same time increasing the tourist strength of the county seat and its surroundings, while also improving the comfort of the people living in the city. We have tried to develop Miskolc and its surroundings in all areas that fall within the competence of the state, but we have also tried to make proposals on issues that fall within the competence of the local, opposition-led municipality. One such area was the improvement of public safety in downtown Miskolc. Following the 2019 municipal elections, an increasing number of loud and unscrupulous rallyers appeared in the downtown of Miskolc, who often insult the passersby even during the day. By now, early in the evening, but often even during the day, parents dare not let their teenage children go to these neighborhoods alone. The Centrum store used to be a central part of the city, where people often arranged meetings, and from there they started walking downtown, for example. Since the crowds around the department store showed up with their lack of need and noise, the groups invading peaceful townspeople have been stinking, filthy, and garbage around them. In the city of Miskolc, the CCTV system is available, and the police presence is adequate, so I think we've done everything we have on the state side. What, then, can be done to improve the sense of security of the city dwellers? I think that the city police committee should think about providing a permanent and large number of public-sector supervisors in the vicinity of downtown, whose task would be not primarily to search for cars parked in a restricted area, but to provide for these areas. For example, I have also proposed to the Miskolc City Administration, following a discussion with the former Minister of Defence, to help bring a military regiment to Miskolc, downtown Miskolc, in the building of the former Girls' College, so that the appearance of soldiers can increase the sense of security of the people living in the city. Since there was no recommendation from the city to place the military regiment, we sought and found a state-owned building in the town of Miskolc hejőcsaba. But there would be a number of municipal tasks that do not require money, rather will. I recently walked around Avason, Middle Szere street, where there was a lot of garbage thrown away in public areas, but I also experienced a similar experience on the Silk Arena, a similar amount of illegally laid garbage can be seen, and I mentioned downtown. The phenomena that have just been discussed, destroying the sense of safety and comfort, are also annoying because I believe Miskolc is one of the best cities in Hungary, which has undergone a change of face in recent years, and now it is worth putting Miskolc on the bucket list for everyone. In order to mention nothing else, we have natural treasures such as Bükk, Lillafüred, Lake Hámori, Miskolctapolca, the cave bath, our latest attractions are the Fairy Garden of Diósgyőr, Lake Csorba, and for a long time I could list the known and less well-known natural treasures of the city. Miskolc's spectacle and value must be the basis of the visitors to our city. Looking at the state of the city, the time has now come for the faction leading the city to act on this matter. I've told you many times that I'm happy to help the city council and the mayor, because it's in our best interest, and because it's Miskolc. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-07-18-320	Thank you very much. Tamás Herczeg, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: Here you go.
u2022-07-18-321	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member from the LMP mentioned a few minutes ago that we would accept tomorrow and that we had concluded the negotiations for the 2023 budget. This is indeed true, and I am happy to report that there is more than 2 billion forints to complete a very important development for Békéscsaba. In the framework of the Modern Cities Programme, the decision was made to provide an amount of more than HUF 8 billion for the development of the Pécsaba area fairground, and for a period of four years we will receive the support that will result in one of the most convenient, largest markets in Eastern Hungary in the first half of next year. [[21.20]] I say it is the largest or one of the largest, because on a stronger Saturday day there are more than ten thousand customers in this market, which, by the way, is continuously open from Monday to Sunday. This development consists of several elements. The first element was that the wholesale market was actually out of the city's almost-direct centre. This is a very important thing for the residents of the area, because often at 2:00 a.m. the car crash started, which obviously bothered the residents. Once the wholesale market is out of the centre, this issue will be resolved. As I mentioned, on a Saturday, more than 10,000 people are on the market. Parking is a major problem, so we built a three-storey parking house, where 292 cars can be parked; and with more than 100 parking spaces around the direct fairground, parking problems are solved to a large extent, if not fully, but to a significant extent. And while we are talking about parking problems and solving them, I can also mention that there are also hundreds of bicycle storage spaces and bicycle storage facilities involved in the development. The people of Csaba use the bicycle a lot; now there are chaotic conditions, and when the development is completed, the cyclists will be able to stop in normal, safe conditions around the market. There will be an indoor-open market hall, and in its central part an atrium that will be suitable for real agora function in the area of the fair hall; a real agora function that is actually present now, we will only be able to visit the market under more comfortable conditions. I say that it is present because, in addition to calling the Csaba market the city's pantry because of its abundant and wide range of products, a lot of people come to the market not only to buy, but also to talk to each other about their daily crafty and difficult things. Or even talk to each other about public affairs, not just with each other, but in fact every election, every political party, every political community considers the market to be one of the most important scenes where voters and public workers can meet each other. The pavilion row that has stagnated, has not been sufficiently comfortable before, and is replaced by a modern, all-needed, new pavilion series. For the peaceful people of Csaba, it is important to have a flea market, a junk market, it remains here in the marketplace, and the pet market, and we can find a suitable place for this. According to current calculations, about 350-400 producers, traders, use the Csaba fairground. According to preliminary surveys, this may rise to 500 if the new market hall is completed in the first half of next year; a market hall, which will also have a tourist effect, will certainly have a tourist effect, since a gastronomic will be created that will be suitable for visitors to Békéscsaba to buy a real hungaricum, a csabaikum, a sausage from Csaba. So, in the first half of next year, our new market hall will be completed, thanks to the development of the Modern Cities programme of 8.2 billion. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-07-18-322	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Thank you, everyone, for your help in this room. And I hope that no one will be disappointed that the Parliament will not meet for a few weeks at night. Thank you, and have a nice day.
