u2022-07-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the 4th extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Active Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Just as the government is struck by catatonic taxpayers, suddenly and painfully, climate change will strike us if we do not act immediately. Both cases could be predicted, as the government has dealt with the cataclysms for some time; we have long suspected what negative effects climate change has had or will have on our lives, as we already feel the effects of climate change on our skin and on our wallets. When the summer panic is unbearable, when droughts, when water scarcity, is hot, when the environment is becoming increasingly unlivable, it is all the result of climate change. It is therefore important to take climate protection measures, and by 2050 everything needs to be done to ensure that both the European Union and Hungary are carbon-free. It would be nice to do it much sooner, of course. These measures should have been started for a long time, but they cannot be put off any longer in the present. It's very, very important where we get the energy. We see that hydrocarbons need to be completely disposed of, everything that's hydrocarbon is a serious climate killer. If you look at the number of greenhouse gas emissions associated with the production of a kilowatt hour current, you can see that in the case of coal power plants, the total life cycle production of a kilowatt hour electricity produces 900 grams of carbon dioxide or equivalent emissions, which is 400 grams in the case of natural gas, which is also a huge quantity. In the case of renewable energy, it is only 20-30 grams, so these are climate friendly solutions. So coal and natural gas are climate killers, everything that's hydrocarbon, you have to get rid of it. Therefore, the latest government intention to open the shale gas fields in the Mako trench is incomprehensible and they want to start extraction there. Why do we need to extract excess gas? You're not afraid Russia's gonna shut down the gas taps and we're not gonna get gas from there? Maybe we should just say that out loud on the government's side. What's this about? In recent years, various government actors have been talking about the extraction of shale gas in Macedonia and the possibility of doing so. First, on 19 May, Minister László Palkovics raised this opportunity at his ministerial hearing, but later spoke about it. On 20 June, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz said in his response to the LMP that shale gas will replace carbon-based production and bring us closer to climate targets. But on July 7th, Minister Gergely Gulyás also spoke of the fact that the extraction of shale gas in Maco is worth it. Dear members of the government, it is not worth the extraction of shale gas at all, it is a serious climate killer and it is also damaging our health. Pala gas releases much more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere than conventional gas extraction, by the way. We also see how harmful, carcinogenic chemicals are used in the extraction process, our groundwater resources may be compromised, we also see that we need to drill new wells, a well usually exhausts in a year or a half, so environmental destruction and environmental destruction are continuous. This is a hydraulic fracturing process and 15 million litres of drinking water are consumed in the case of the extraction of a well. This means that the extraction of a single well requires enough water to consume the total annual drinking water needs of ten thousand Hungarians. It is an extremely harmful, polluting, dangerous solution, and we have not talked about what kind of land movements, or earthquakes, can cause the production to start. Therefore, I would like a clear answer from the government to plan to rediscover, reopen these gas fields, open shale gas extraction in Hungary in the Mako trench or not. I would recommend completely different, green and sustainable solutions to the government's attention. If we want to produce electricity, we have renewables, we have to allow the operation of wind power plants in Hungary, this is banned, and the other is to consume less gas, so that we do not heat the Hungarian streets with Russian gas, but we need to insulate Hungarian residential houses, real estates and start a national insulation program. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for the government to answer.
u2022-07-12-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-07-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He has touched on a great many topics in his speech, including the environmental, economic and social challenge of our time, climate change, the effects of which we are, of course, already experiencing here in the Carpathian Basin. The priority of Hungary is to protect the environment and adapt to climate change. In this regard, we have talked several times, agreed here in Parliament, such as the climate and nature conservation action plan, its goals, and its achievements, to eliminate illegal landfills, to allow the redemption of glass and plastic bottles, metal boxes, to ban single-use plastics, to protect our rivers. We have also talked about the government's support for the emergence of electric cars, the Green Bus programme we talked about green government bonds, the government's commitment to use the money from this to climate-friendly programmes, and we have also talked about what results we have in relation to greenhouse gas emissions, as we have been able to reduce it by 34% compared to the 1990 base year, while our economic performance has increased. It has already been said that by 2050 we have set a very ambitious target, that Hungary should be climate neutral, and that in order to achieve this, obviously we are doing everything we can to increase renewable energy sources. In this connection, we also discussed solar energy, solar and solar power capacities, so that we can reach 6,000 megawatts much sooner than 2030, and we have also talked about the fact that we are now working on the flexibility of the electricity grid, energy storage. Here we must not forget that there is a war in the process, and as a result of sanctions against Russia, energy prices are rising drastically, which significantly weakens Europe. Today, due to war and sanctions, Europe has the most expensive energy in the world. What we see in this environment is that Asia, China, are constantly developing, the United States is having a completely different impact, and Europe is having a very negative impact on the current situation. The growth of the European Union has apparently been due to Central Europe, the Central European economies, in recent years. Obviously, economic growth requires energy in Central European countries, and rising energy prices have a very bad impact on Central European countries. We see that the war energy crisis has previously created unimaginable situations for governments in the most developed countries. [[9.10]] According to the Dutch recommendation, no one should shower longer than 5 minutes and not heat their apartments more than 19 degrees in the day and 15 degrees in the night. The British energy provider specifically says that in the colder apartment they recommend hugging pets, which is what they encourage people to do. I think this may not be the best way to deal with this current energy situation. In Italy, heating and air conditioning are restricted in public offices, while German cities limit the duration of public lighting. In Germany, there has also been a situation where practically a green leading politician is thinking about how coal power plants should be restarted, so we are talking about such a situation. I think that, in this situation, the Hungarian Government has a very big responsibility and, by the way, the Parliament also has the responsibility to ensure that Hungary has energy supply and to examine all possibilities in this regard. We've talked about the gas reservoirs, the continuous uploading of them, how important this is. In recent times, we have heard that we are looking at the extension of Paks I's operating time. And it is also very important in such a case that we increase domestic gas production and domestic production, because what we can produce at home is certainly home, so I think that these issues should be addressed. I ask you, Congressman, in this war situation, to look at the [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] support the work of the Hungarian government on the issue of energy supply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-12-4	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The post office delivered a letter last Saturday: I received an e-mail from the Chairman of the Economic Committee at exactly 21 21 minutes ago, stating that the meeting on Monday, yesterday's committee, will be extended with an item on the agenda, accompanied by a background paper entitled "Political Declaration against political pressure against the protection of Hungary's economic interests." Well, this title is a little vague, of course, the material itself is rather vague, but in fact, the document is about the Hungarian Parliament condemning, condemning the European Union, more specifically the European Parliament, because it challenged the Hungarian veto about the global minimalist and envisaged various measures, such as ignoring the Hungarian veto or delaying the approval of the Hungarian recovery plan. The presentation submitted to the Economic Commission has identified two points, one of which is that Hungary's national interests are contrary to the adoption of the global minimum tax, and we are therefore legally vetoing. The second is that the practice of unanimous decisions cannot be suspended; the European Parliament should have sought consensus and not to question the practice of consensus decision-making. Well, let's look at these two arguments a little more carefully. It is difficult to understand why it is against the interests of Hungary that a large number of multinational companies here currently pay 9 percent corporate tax, while if we introduced a global minimum tax, we would have to pay 15 percent. Is it not good for Hungarians that foreign companies do not deliver so much profit, but less profit? Is it not good for the budget to have more revenue and possibly be used for social or welfare purposes? Of course, it could be against the fact that if there were 15 percent corporate tax, foreign companies would leave. But if these companies are only in Hungary because we have lower taxes, then this is a big problem, then this means that we are in a subordinate colonial situation, which should not be preserved, but should be eradicated urgently. Old-fashioned economic truth is that tax cuts cannot improve competitiveness in the long term, and if you look at countries that are most competitive, taxes are high everywhere. And why would it be bad for the Hungarian people if the extra profit of the Hungarian oligarchs was not paid by 9% but by 15% of the corporate tax? This would only be appropriate because the minimum wage earners also have to pay a 15% tax. I fully agree with the practice of consensus decision-making, and I think that this is a very important and very good idea, but the behaviour that Fidesz represents now is a little Pharisee, because in the last 12 years I have never emphasized, never sought to be a consensus, but in the two-thirds of its possession it has always pushed everything down our throats. [[Bence Rétvári: You have always wanted consensus... you are inconsistent!]] From the Fundamental Law to its tenth amendment, through the introduction of a state of emergency to the Slave Act, almost everything. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] Pestively speaking, now the ice cream licked me back. [[Bence Rétvári: You suck back!]] So Hungary has only 1/27 and 3.7 percent of the European Union's votes, and in terms of its economic weight, we still have a 1 percent demand for it, and I say that we rightly demand that the European Union take our position into account. Now, if that is the case, my fellow Members, then why are you ignoring the opinion of the opposition with a one-third weight? Why isn't this counted? Do you know what this is, fellow Members? This is the application of the double standard that you so often and so often condemn, only when the double standard comes to us, that is a problem for you, but when you apply it, you think that everything is fine. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Bence Rétvári: You're the one applying double standards! Applause from the floors of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-12-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert is responding. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I am sorry that you were unable to attend the Parliament meeting last night, because, in the context of an item on the agenda, Parliament discussed the political statement on the issues that you have just raised, and before that, it was discussed by the Legislative Committee, but, well, there is no reason to reexplain our position. Your attitude, your position on the global minimum tax, means a tax increase. Once again, you are in favour of a tax increase, and you have always supported tax increases. The adoption of the global minimum tax would create a significant additional burden for Hungarian businesses and, according to the Hungarian position, would put the whole of Europe at a competitive disadvantage. The European Parliament would force Hungary to give up representation of its own economic interests by overtaking its powers. This is included in the political statement that the Parliament will hopefully adopt today. By mentioning in its resolution a decision which is not in any context with the so-called global minimum tax issue, the approval of the Hungarian recovery and resilience plan, the European Parliament is making use of a disguised threat, or at least obvious political pressure, which seriously violates the principle of loyal cooperation. So your position supports Brussels' threat, Brussels' pressure, and the Parliament must reject this. The elite in Brussels will continue to work with all its might to force Member States to introduce a minimum global tax. As we have already said, the adoption of this would double the tax burden on Hungarian businesses. This is unacceptable in times of peace, but in times of war it is outrageous. The European Parliament also went on a slope in yesterday's political declaration and, under the pressure of the left, criticised Hungary's opposition to the global minimum tax and threatened to hold back the recovery fund for our country. It is incorrect for European politicians and Commission officials to link the vote on the global minimum tax with the payment of recovery funds, which is contrary to EU law. Anyone who talks about a veto, by the way, doesn't even know about European treaties. Consensual decision-making means that a matter must be discussed before a decision is taken until full agreement is reached. On issues far more serious than the Hungarian position, the Netherlands or France have prevented, for example, the adoption of the European Constitution. [[9.20]] Instead of putting the whole of Europe at a competitive disadvantage by tax increases during the war, Brussels could work to restore peace as soon as possible, which would also put the continent's economy back on track. Honourable Member, I ask you and all the representatives of the left to help Hungary in this situation and not to campaign for new tax increases by expressing the global minimum tax, but to accept the question of the sovereignty of the Hungarian Parliament and Hungary of what taxes it introduces. And what you said about the termination of the double taxation treaty from the American part is not accurate. To put it mildly, your statement is not accurate, since this convention was amended in 2011 and adopted from the Hungarian side, and this convention was not adopted from the American side. The future of the amended convention is now in question. However, it cannot be accepted either from the European Union or from the United States of America to force a tax increase on Hungarian people in Hungary. I ask you to help the government with this intention to help protect our national sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, leader of the group, Mi Hazank Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech: we have found billions more for the budget. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-07-12-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Now that there is a me-gint problem, the state register is empty, you are doing the same thing as all the Fidesz and Balliberal governments in the last 30 years, they are hitting the Hungarian workers, they are hitting the Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian businesses. Obviously, if they hadn't created in the last 30 years the tax and business environments that have developed in Hungary, there wouldn't have been too many people forced to catalog, or they wouldn't have been forced to catatose. They don't even give Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian workers, businesses the right time to prepare for the new rules, because according to the first news, they want to introduce these amendments from autumn, obviously because there is a huge problem, the state register is empty. They have not heard the cry for alarm since the 1990s, which was about the need to build the Hungarian national economy by public intervention. You have done the same thing in the last 12 years as your predecessors, the Balliberal Governments. You have helped the multinationals with special grants, instead of helping Hungarian businesses, Hungarian workers, with public intervention in the same way. For example, at this time of the food crisis, it would be very good to have a much shorter supply chain in Hungary, directly from the Hungarian producer or from the owner to the Hungarian customer and to the consumer. They didn't take these steps, and now when there's trouble, they're gonna go after them. This is a brutal attack on Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian workers. They're trying to skin them again. Recently, I made a suggestion: Mi Hazank's faction is trying to help the government, that if you want to find money in Hungary and not take money from Hungarian employees, not Hungarian entrepreneurs, you do not want to skin them again. Since 2020, we have been asking that beneficiaries of, for example, the coronal virus and the whole artificially political crisis be taxed. We are glad that after two years they have finally taken up the proposal of the Hungarian Movement on special taxes, but they have once again begun to do so in a dilettant manner. While arguing with Ryanair, they do not notice that, for example, the artificially induced economic crisis from a laboratory virus was not the largest beneficiaries. So while you're arguing with Ryanair, we've already shown you that global tech companies are here. I do not know whether the Ministry of Finance has succeeded since then, or, as the Prime Minister replied to me, the Minister of Justice has made some progress on global tech companies. But I'll help you if I didn't, and I'll be waiting for your answer. So if it didn't work out, I'd have helped. For example, a very simple law could oblige Facebook to be available in Hungary and have its seat. If you don't keep this, you'll be fined. There have been examples of this in the world, and in some countries this has already been done. The Hungarian state cash register can generate very fast revenue. Our Homeland Movement will vote for you immediately if there is such a proposal. If you have such a proposal, we will support it immediately. You can see that we're doing you the favor of not submitting it first, but we're waiting for a solution from you. So one of my questions is that you have managed to achieve something on global tech companies to finally pay in Hungary, to contribute to public burdens. And I'll tell you one more such global pig-headed lord. For example, since 2020, certain global multi-companies dealing with food delivery services have doubled their revenues in Hungary, again due to the artificial economic crisis, after the emergence or dispatch of the corona virus. For example, there is a multinational company called Wolt, which is founded in Finland, but the US global capital has since joined the company, whose CEO said that it had a net income of five times as much, i.e. HUF 5 billion thanks to the Crown Virus. The CEO also said that their business policy is to employ migrants and immigrants. This is what we see in Budapest, we see in Hungary that the growing majority of their food suppliers are not Hungarian. We expect them to be taken out, for example, instead of airlines that otherwise do not produce extra profit. We also expect the government to make a proposal to limit the proportion of cheap foreign workers to the protection of Hungarian workers, Hungarian entrepreneurs and the Hungarian people. Wolt is a very good example of this. You'd better start taking care of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-12-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, You come up with new ideas on how to improve the state budget, while your fellow factions are talking about how to distribute money from the budget. You're talking about an empty state register, and your fellow factions are talking about how much, what kind of wage increases should be distributed. I see a contradiction in this regard in the political manifestations of your faction. Then there is also a contradiction that you criticize the government for supporting the multinationals and not supporting small businesses. In another sentence, he says why the government is changing the kata system, because it was supporting and helping small businesses. There are many contradictions in what you would like to say to the government. But first, let's look at the taxation of multi-business companies. The issue of the global minimum tax is here before the Parliament, it is here all over Europe. This is what America and all of Europe are dealing with. You know that the global minimum tax system, developed by the OECD, did not start this way, but started with two pillars: the individual pillar is what you are proposing that digital companies be taxed. The taxation of these companies could only be done by large international agreement, reconciliation and regulation. However, for some reason, this individual pillar has been removed from the draft global minimum tax. While this was involved, Hungary supported this proposal, but now that it is out of it, it does not support it, because only the second pillar remains, which would mean that our country's competitive advantage in taxation, especially in the area of corporate taxation, where we pay only 9 percent in Europe as almost the only country Hungary would lose. We therefore do not support the proposal and draft of the global minimum tax. As far as the katás entrepreneurs are concerned: the katás system had an incredible number of advantages, the low administration did not have to do any accounting, the low public burden, and many entrepreneurs and businesses could choose it, as more than 450 thousand, nearly 500 thousand people have chosen this form of taxation in the last ten years. [[9.30]] It is obvious that, in such a situation, we are preparing a war budget, there is war inflation, a difficult budget situation, we agree on that, and we need to change the tax system of the kata. The objective is clear. The original goal was to make businesses, entrepreneurs who provide directly to the population easier, less public burden, less administration. The new system, which the Parliament will discuss after the speeches before the agenda, will ensure this. It will ensure that those self-employed persons who provide directly to the population, essentially retain the kata, will have the same level of taxation, 50 thousand forints per month, and the tax system will not change, in essence these companies will only have to keep revenue records. For those who are unable to continue the Kata, it will offer other favourable tax methods, the Ministry of Finance and the Government. I believe that the new system [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It'll be a fair system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-12-12	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Molnár, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Socialist Party as a Patriot Social Democratic Community [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: Wow!]] for many years, he has been fighting for our natural heritage, especially for our waterfronts, our campsites, Lake Balaton and other important waterfronts of outstanding importance for wildlife. Last week, we won a strategic victory before the Constitutional Court, which has made a rare decision, but it is welcome that for the future it has banned the use of the waterfront area of Lake Balaton, the back door against the protection zone, the installation of campsites, which is a strategic opportunity and victory for the future. We will continue to fight this, because this decision has given us only a surplus and strength not to stand by and let processes that threaten our natural heritage take place in the country for future generations. We have had two other very important initiatives, one of which is freeing beaches near natural waters, because it is incomprehensible and unacceptable that Hungarian citizens have to pay for access to exclusive state-owned natural waters. We will maintain this initiative, as well as our proposal for a national holiday programme, which, unfortunately, has not yet been supported by the majority of governments. We hope that this will change, and it will be important for the majority of governments regardless of ideological and party affiliation. These are our previous proposals. However, we have now come up with a new proposal that would bring the institution of study camping into Hungarian public education. We also believe that this proposal, which we have presented to you in the form of a proposal for a resolution and a bill, will receive support from the majority of governments, since we do not even think that they will not support this proposal because of political or ideological constraints. We are very happy to offer not to make a socialist proposal in any way, but to make it a law. After all, the proposal to have a week-long, five-day study camping for students until the 4-11 grade, in a coherent manner, can be incorporated into the Public Education Act, the school order, would give the institution's head a free hand to mark the exact date, and most importantly, there is also a source, as the 581 billion for tourism will cover the cost of this in the next eight or nine years. You have had a good proposal, but it is not good enough, because the 2011 proposal, which concerns the class trips to the Carpathian Basin, is a good proposal. It's not as much on your part, but it's one of them, just like Camp Elizabeth. But not good enough, because a sporadic class trip... or otherwise it is very right for Hungarian students to go to the Carpathian Basin and have such a study trip, these are good suggestions, but they are not good enough, it needs to be further developed. I am also sure and I would like to believe that today all Hungarian MPs care about the healthy childhood of future generations, students, which is rich in experiences and, in the future, to create an adult age that promotes healthy physical and mental development, such a proposal, which relates to study camping, will be eligible. We will therefore ask that both the proposal for a decision and the bill be supported, as they are important for national development and for the vision of Hungarian youth. I believe that these issues do not tolerate party political affiliation. They have their budget legs, and if, I say, it is necessary that this be your proposal and not your opposition, then even at this price, just make it a law, because there is nothing more important than the vision of Hungarian families and Hungarian students, the preservation of our natural heritage and the survival of future generations. This may be the most important thing for a patriot social democrat movement. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And I trust that this is at least tolerated to you and can be supported at a later stage. Thank you very much for your attention, and we trust on behalf of Hungarian students that you will support it. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP, Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2022-07-12-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-12-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It has touched on several topics, and thank you for not choosing the provocative tone of voice, it may be that the MSZP has a kind of change of style, in any case it is a novelty. As regards natural values and the protection of waters, I think it is very important that all of our natural resources, natural water, lakeside and riverbanks are adequately protected. This also means that when the government decides on investments, economic aspects, job creation aspects, the interests of the people there, and to this extent the aspects of nature conservation must be taken into account at the same time. When Mr Nándor Csepreghy spoke yesterday about the government's review of ongoing investments, he also placed great emphasis on the importance of protecting natural values. As far as the beaches are concerned, I remember very well that last summer you guys conducted an extensive campaign on the beaches, especially with regard to the beaches in Balaton. I also remember those airplanes that may have roamed the sky on your behalf, demanding free beaches in the sky, not rarely above free beaches, and this was received with great surprise by the tourists and Hungarian swimmers there. Perhaps that is not the point, but that the first four phases of the beach development programme launched with the help of the MTÜ received a total of 215 Balaton projects of HUF 8.6 million. On the shore of Lake Balaton, 42 free beaches of 18 settlements were renewed, worth a total of HUF 4.5 billion. These beach developments include improving the conditions for access to water, improving green surfaces and transport infrastructure, renewing, installing and replacing street furniture, outdoor elements, and I could continue for a long time. If you've been to one of the renewed free beaches, you can see that there's a difference between heaven and earth compared to previous conditions. What I would also like to point out here is that according to last year's data, there are a total of 107 public beaches on the shore of Lake Balaton, with a length of 38 kilometres. If you look at the length of the beach, it's almost two thirds of the beach. So if you think it's important, you think it's important for as many people as possible to use these beaches, then the two-thirds ratio is meaningful. As far as the camps are concerned, if you look at the possibilities in Hungary from the beginning of government, compared to the previous period, then again there is a difference between heaven and earth. I am not only talking about what you referred to as providing support for cross-border class trips, but also about the fact that young students who have never seen before under the Erzsébet programme can spend most of their vacations in other waterfront settlements on the shores of Lake Balaton, young people who might not otherwise be able to do so. So I believe your speech is that you are in fact in favour of the Elizabeth programme, which is an important step forward in relation to the previous general left-wing position. To sum up: if you consider it important for Hungarian children to have a decent holiday, even those who would not otherwise have the opportunity, the government will give you all the support for this, even in spite of the current difficulties. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.40]]
u2022-07-12-16	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, Member of the Momentum Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, You're running out of words for what you're doing under the heading of government. Apparently, they're not on top of the situation, so to speak, they have no idea what they're doing. The forint crisis, double-digit inflation and a serious livelihood crisis are raging in the country, instead of dealing with them, you're talking nonsense and you're acting out. Let's take a look at the last few weeks, a few months. For example, the Minister of the Interior recently found that the reason why our police officers are quitting is because the economy is going so well that the absorption effect of the competition sphere is too strong. According to the Secretary of State for Public Education, the economy is so bad that teachers will think twice about quitting. It seems the Minister of the Interior has forgotten to point the Secretary of State in the direction of what he has to lie about the state of the economy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is convinced that the EU has clearly frozen EU funds because of the Child Protection Act. Meanwhile, the Minister responsible for the negotiations on EU funds says the opposite, as he believes that the freezing of thousands of billion forints has nothing to do with the Child Protection Act, someone is lying. The Minister of Justice states in the minutes that the budget is now absolutely in the light of the entire economic recession in Europe, so there are very large restrictions and then it is elegantly denied. I would also like to send a message to the Minister of Justice that a literal record will be drawn up at such meetings, and next time you will pay more attention to such a meeting. At the same time, the Minister for Economic Affairs would stop inflation by freezing the facelessly low wages of the public sector and calling for the same level of competition. He does that after the government lies on every channel that there will be no restrictions on people. I ask you, if inflation goes away and the wages are frozen, then who will be affected by the restrictions? The dolphins? But the Minister of Finance didn't want to miss the government chaos either, so standing in line he found that there was war inflation in Hungary, and the exchange rate of the forint also fell against all the major currencies due to the war. He does this by saying on every channel that Hungary is the only island of peace and security throughout Europe. What kind of war inflation are they talking about when the rate of increase has increased steadily and sharply already six months before the outbreak of the war, and since the outbreak of the war, the rate of the forint has deteriorated even 20 percent compared to the Ukrainian hryvnia? It is enough evidence that you are completely clueless about what to do with this crisis, but you have managed to overcome the chaos of the last few weeks yesterday. During the worst crisis in the last 30 years, what is the Hungarian government doing? It kills the most popular form of taxation, thus putting nearly half a million individual entrepreneurs into uncertainty. Just when stability is needed, just when people need a secure livelihood, you will transform the Kata in a day with zero coordination and zero dialogue so that it will practically cease. Four days ago four days ago! did the Prime Minister have no idea how the taxation of self-employed people would be transformed, and today we're voting on it? ! This morning we woke up to the fact that László Parragh said that this bill had become a bit powerful. It is clear from these that you do not consult not only with the parties involved, but also with you. You have now reached the point of threatening the existence of the middle class. The CSOK and the government of family tax incentives launched a full-time attack on the Hungarian middle class, trying to bring down the standard of living of 400 thousand people, 400 thousand families, under the pretext of the crisis caused by your failed economic policy. After George Soros, Brussels and non-converting kindergartens, your new enemies became fearsome armies of hairdressers, translators, graphic designers, language teachers and electricians. You even fooled your own voters, because just like you don't look at anyone, you don't look at them. Since the amendments to the Momentum were voted out last night in the Legislative Committee, which would have rationalised this law at least to some extent, the only solution now is to withdraw the law. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Leave the working Hungarian middle class alone, withdraw the law and start dealing with a crisis, since you are the reason we are here! Thank you. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-12-18	Congressman, your time is up. [[David Bedő: I sat down.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We didn't know what that speech was gonna be that you practiced so carefully in this box, but that's what it is. [[David Bedő: That's right.]] Since you are a new Member, we do not suppose you have any concrete experience of what has indeed been the worst economic crisis in the last 30 years before 2010. I'm telling you this because we have a clear basis for comparison. Now the economy has increased by 7 percent, there has been a period when it has decreased by 7 percent, and it has not been decided to raise wages, such as this year's minimum wage, and wages have increased in countless sectors, but wages have been taken away, and a month's wages and pensions have been taken away while we have rebuilt it. So I would suggest that you be very careful when you talk about what the biggest crisis in the last 30 years has been. And as far as the facts are concerned, I think it is important for you, and in addition to the 7 percent increase, it is a serious fact that employment is at a record level, despite all the difficulties, unemployment is below 4 percent. Back in the day, the people he joined, that was 12 percent. And to support the state of the economy elsewhere, industrial production has increased by nine percent in the last year. If you look at wages, they have increased by 15 percent in Hungary in the last year, which is above the level of war inflation. I see the effort to try to remove the whole fact of war inflation, its significance, but if you deny it from the front, from the front, deny anything that comes from the government, then please look at all the inflation data not only in the neighbouring countries, but also in all European countries, and please look at how the euro, the euro area and other European currencies are losing their value to the dollar, which is a direct consequence of the war situation. I do not find it surprising that the government is being blamed for everything that exists, but they are in opposition, but let us not accept that they are acting as if there are economic challenges only in Hungary. I'd like to give you a few examples of how wrong that is. In Italy, for example, an energy emergency plan is being developed, which also affects the heating of apartments, the operation of shops and the regulation of urban lighting. Public offices can be heated to a maximum of 19 degrees and cannot be cooled below 27 degrees. In Spain, the heating and climate of public buildings are also regulated by a threshold of 19 and 27 degrees. For example, in Germany, the temperature limit would be lower. According to the prime minister of Baden-Württemberg, as there may be problems with heating, the room temperature is up to 15 degrees. According to the head of the German public utility agency, it is also possible for the Germans to take less showers. According to a senator in Hamburg, the availability of hot water may need to be limited. I bring up these examples because they fundamentally deny your claim that only Hungary is facing economic challenges. If these measures, measures or lifestyle councils in Western Europe had been envisaged by someone a year or two ago, then many would probably have prescribed him medication, or at least they would have thought that the heat would hurt him. What was recently unimaginable in countries further west of us is reality today. In the countries of Europe richer than us, life must be severely restricted, and the main cause of this is war itself, and the other is the failed Brussels policy, let us say it, which forced sanctions even when it was quite clear that they really hurt Europe the most, and now in Brussels they do not have one sentence on how to get out of this situation. [[9.50]] Take a look at the news from the last few days, Your Honour. The arrival of gas at the North Stream has been restricted and even stopped in Germany, Italy and Austria are also reported to be less gas and you are now trying to deny the importance of the whole. As far as taxation is concerned, you have joined those who would increase corporate tax to 19 percent, make income tax to two-key, you have a proposal to be 25-30 percent, to look at your own programme; and I am not talking about taking away family tax incentives, limiting them, because, as you argue, it is wrong that these subsidies come in the form of tax incentives. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So if one thing is constant between left-wing parties, then that is the tax increase, so please, let the issue of the tax increase be discussed with greater caution here in this House. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-20	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of Current Affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The hour of truth is coming. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And the fabric of the Patymkin village of the Fidesz one-party overpower begins to paint. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think it's a little bit, I understand that this House's average term is slightly higher than that. [[Bence Rétvári: You are so intelligent, that's why!]] a very interesting and projected period for the 13th year of Fidesz one-party overpower, where you have a decade of wealth, EU resources and very favourable global economic processes [[Bence Rétvári: Like a coronal virus epidemic!]] indeed, in these ten years, relatively wide sections of Hungarian society have been able to ensure the illusion that the country is going forward and that improvements have undoubtedly been made [[Bence Rétvári: Come on.]] But now this Patymkin village is collapsing so hard, it could have unfathomable consequences. There is nothing more evidence of this than the sudden failure of the freedom fight against Brussels, and ministers Navracsics and Gulyás have reported that you have accepted some of the European Commission's proposals on how to curb corruption clearly affecting EU funds for all. I would highlight two points of these four points. One is the reduction of single-playing public procurement to 15 percent. This can, of course, be defended by saying that it is closer to an EU average then, but let us not forget that we are in Hungary, and we know precisely that if a single-player public procurement is issued, then who will win it is Ripper or Garancsi or Szíyj and then Tiborcz. [[Bence Rétvári: One character and lists four.]] So I think that we cannot defend ourselves by setting a percentage of single-playing public procurement. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to another very interesting point, namely that they have undertaken to reduce the number of Fidesz one-party overpowers, and I quote, the number of special, fast legislation, and they will present their bill on taxpayers to us, and they will have it voted in 30 hours with the Honourable House. So, I would ask you seriously how serious it is now that any promise you make against the European Union can be taken seriously if you make a promise on Monday and then, in 30 hours, a bill that destroys hundreds of thousands of Hungarian small entrepreneurs will be submitted to this House, which will pay the price of virtually hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families and workers. It is clear to us, Jobbik, the party of the legal order, that the authorities must, of course, act against tax evasion, but because of some unfair ditchings, the hundreds of thousands of social workers, craftsmen, artists and intellectuals, do not beat down the fidesz austerity caused by you putting all this money in the wrong places in these ten years' abundance of money, and this is going to avenge you very seriously. Jobbik as a conservative party [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Rétvári: You say it longer!]] It always insists that the legislative process cannot be humiliated this way, because it is nothing else to change taxes in the middle of a tax year, well, it would be impossible for a civil government, wouldn't it, so, let's say, more is the word, if I may ask, don't use it on themselves, so I think that on the one hand, in the middle of a tax year, in agreement with no one, it also shows how much they are afraid that someone, such as a minority, usually even an intellectual, is not involved in the semi-feudal system that you have built up [[Bence Rétvári: He's afraid now!]] They'll have to lose because they'll only get a hundred billion in your budget, for example, on the Fidesz propaganda industry that you want to hang on to. Jobbik therefore calls on the Fidesz one-party overpower, which governs the country towards the bankruptcy of the state, not to strike citizens and businesses creating self-existence, but to withdraw this bill immediately and to protect our country from this very serious austerity, as I think [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that we are living in a critical time when very serious action will be needed anyway. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-12-22	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Well, if there's any loose tissue, it's around Jobbik, honourable Member. It seems that your ex-president, the leader of the faction, wants to break the speed record of András Fekete-Győr, who first became a candidate for a failed Prime Minister within six months, then a fallen party leader, then a failed faction leader. It seems that Ferenc Gyurcsány put Peter James on this train as well. It seems that another name will be deleted from the Group of the Sign by Ferenc Gyurcsány's administrator, and that will be Jobbik. You are where the fabric is so disintegrating that you can no longer follow who you are with, and you have just given a faction leader-designate campaign speech about what the rhetoric of the Jobbik faction would be like if you took over this position instead of Peter James, of course we do not know if you would tolerate him among yourselves or put him in the ranks of independents, but that is what Jobbik's everyday life is about, honourable Member. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I think it's about catnip.]] And about what proposals you have actually submitted from the Hungarian left to the budget. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: A teacher's wage increase!]] You're talking about different money and billions, but what is it that you signed that you submitted to the budget with your own name? Honourable Member, you would raise the burden of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses by HUF 3000 billion. They would introduce the carbon tax and various wealth taxes, with Hungarian people they would take 1200 billion forints from their consumption and wealth with these two types of taxes. These are your legislative proposals here at Parliament's table. By raising corporate tax, you would take 2360 billion forints from all Hungarian companies, from companies that have actually contributed to a record high GDP increase of 7.1 percent in Hungary, compared to what the left did in its own crisis management, when it dropped by 7 percent. You talk about difficult situations when unemployment is record low in Hungary, 3.5 percent. You are ringing an alarm bell in Hungary at a time when there is record low unemployment, when, thank God, people's wages were on average more than 10 percent compared to last year, there was a period when they rose by 20 percent when there was a record high level of employment in Hungary. However, there is, unfortunately, a war and a faulty Brussels sanction environment, which is creating a really difficult situation throughout the world, especially in Europe, because even our own European leaders in Europe are making the situation worse, although Hungary is trying to intervene when it is necessary, so that it does not cause fatal consequences in Hungary. Our environment is really bad. But you can't say that in Hungary there would be a bad situation when there is a 3.5 percent unemployment rate against your 12 percent unemployment. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] When we opened the year with a 10% wage increase in teachers, a 10% wage increase in kindergarten teachers, a 20 percent wage increase in social workers, a 20 percent salary increase in cultural workers, a 21 percent in nurses, a 15 percent in university workers, a six-month gun money in law enforcement, a six-month gun money in the police department, a 13th month pension payment, and you talk about the economic collapse here; however, the under-25s have tax exemptions, and on average, Hungarian families received HUF 800 thousand in family tax refunds, honourable Member, this is the result of economic policy. [[10.00]] And there is one thing you are contributing to in favour of the sanctions policy in Brussels, one of the first to be supported by your new party president, which is that we are really creating an energy price explosion that puts all the results that we have achieved at risk, these wage increases at risk, and by drilling in Brussels for Hungary's own money. You have talked about the negotiations we are conducting in the European Union. Honourable Congressman, We have had a lot of debates with the European Union in Brussels over the last 12 years. We really had a lot of fights. We had a deal at the end of each one. If there hadn't been a debate before, we would have agreed on worse terms. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] That is why we have been conducting these debates. You say that there should be no debate between Hungary and the European Union. Well, then, from the European budget, you know, we would have been worth billions worse. We have taken this debate for Hungary, but you would give up at the first moment. Whatever you think of in Brussels, and there is no Hungarian interest in it, you would give up. And then he comes along and says a long epic sign that Jobbik is a national, European, so-so-right, conservative and the other people's party. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Intercom from Fidesz: Democratic!]] is democratic, so that a man who is the new party leader to whom the leader of the left has said, "This new Nazi boy is a representative of man-to-human animalized filth." It's time to ban Jobbik. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We need some intellectual content, I don't think we can do that.]] That's how your own ally talks about you. I think I was speaking with you on the other side of the table as a real humane man. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-12-24	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Komáromi, Member of the DK Group, asked for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-25	Dear House, From 1 July 2022 until withdrawal from the hospital's supply area, I designate and oblige the following healthcare providers to provide intensive care for infants and children and patients who need surgical, infant and paediatric care, which is expected to require child intensive care, instead of the Hetényi Géza Hospital Hospital of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. In this decision, the National Centre for Public Health names four hospitals in Budapest, one hospital in Kecskemét, one hospital in Miskolc and one hospital in Debrecen. In his statement of reasons, the Director General of the hospital has officially indicated that, due to a lack of work as of 1 July, he is unable to provide safe care in the intensive care department of the children's ward, and therefore, under the conditions at the hospital's disposal, no surgery which is expected to require child intensive care can be performed. Translated to those less familiar with health management's bull tree language, this means that a small child in Szolnok County, injured in a serious accident or in need of serious life-saving surgery, must be transported by ambulance for an hour and a half before treatment, 60 to 100 to 140 km. Apart from the transport costs associated with this, let us remember that this delay for these children in serious condition could cost them their lives. You know what I mean? The government fears for kindergarten surgery, spends billions of taxpayers' money on lying billboards and advertisements in the spring, but feels sorry for money from health professionals in order to protect their lives and health. If anyone knows the name of Hetényi Géza Hospital, it's no coincidence. Since the beginning of June, there has been a problem with the supply of obstetrics, premature births, neurologicals and strokes in this institute, and this situation is expected to continue until the end of summer. And anyone who thinks this situation only happens in this hospital is wrong. Supply problems are seen in almost all public-funded institutions in the country because of the growing lack of healthcare workers, if nothing else, so the more endless waiting lists bear witness to this. The Szolnok case is unique only to the fact that the master beam broke in here in a county's top health institution, but the Director General at least faces the problem and does not try to cover it up with matters that have been said. Since the doctor's salary increase, the lack of a doctor is less stressful, but the lack of workers is catastrophic. The system has been missing from 25-30,000 professionals for a long time. Many people are dangerously close to retirement age, and there is no hope for replacement. Public health expenditure has been below 5% since 2012. In normal countries, it's over 7 percent everywhere. In addition, Hungarian citizens are forced to pay a third of their health expenses here. It is not surprising, therefore, that professionals are constantly leaking from public health. The convergence programme presented to the European Union for the period 2022-2026 promises an embarrassingly slow increase in this funding, which will be further fragmented if the government realises its next nightmare, nationalisation of local government clinics and general medical practices. This will lead even more towards private health, who can afford it at all, and the others will be condemned to increasingly poor care. For more than 30 billion forints, we have again organized a water vb. Hooray! According to the government, this cost will be richly repaid because it will spread our reputation in the world, boosting the traffic of the guests. Well, a Norwegian swim champion would have been in the competition, but before that, he got sick here in Budapest on Friday. He waited for hours for the ambulance, and at the end of the day, a life-saving surgery was performed immediately at the hospital. He then received severe pneumonia during the care, and then became infected with Covid virus, but his complaints were not taken seriously by health workers who dealt with him, in his opinion because they did not understand what he wanted, since none of them spoke English. Those who would have spoken must already be working abroad. The athlete wrote that he would hardly leave the hospital alive if his mother, who had worked as a nurse, had not arrived in Budapest. Dear House, We, doctors, take an oath before we begin our profession. Although the text of this oath has changed several times over the time, the principle has been unchanged for two and a half years, a thousand years: salus aegroti suprema lex esto, the patient is enjoying the supreme law.
u2022-07-12-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Five minutes of speaking time, we're way out of line. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds.
u2022-07-12-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have set ourselves the goal of providing the best possible level of health care, but it seems that we have heard something different from the left in recent months, since Imre László talked about how many hospitals should be closed in Hungary. You know this statement, in which you said that nearly half of the hospitals in Hungary need to be maintained, in Hungarian: half of the hospitals could be closed. He talked about classes and temporary steps, but you would permanently close almost half of the Hungarian hospitals. This is not unimageable, as we remember, here in Budapest, even in the case of the children's hospital, in the case of OPNI, or in the case of other hospitals, how you closed institutions here in Budapest. So they started on this road, and then Imre László told me that half of the hospitals should actually be closed if the left came to power. You did not say that this was unacceptable, but said that it might be worth considering even more whether it should be maintained or not. The left, therefore, does not increase hospital care, but simply reduces the number of hospitals. In their own time, they also privatised part of the fact that the state then had to save the hospitals operated by HospInvest and others after 2010, because it was simply the private service providers that made the profits, but the institution was not operated. This is the model of the left. Of course, in your time, the closure of the hospital was good. The fact that privatized hospitals couldn't function, but that the state had to put more money in their recovery afterwards, was the right thing to do. This is how you stand every time you talk about health care, and you forget to tell us how many active beds have ceased during the health governance of the left in Hungary. How much? I don't know how many beds you're talking about or from which patients are temporarily directed to another hospital, but 16,000. Sixteen thousand! You were talking about needing more nurses. How many health workers have you resigned to? So it's not that they're gone, it's that they said that from tomorrow, you can't come to work at the hospital. How many people? 6,000 people were told you couldn't come to work at the hospital. And besides, whoever stayed, they took a month's wages. [[10.10]] You say that we need an urgent wage increase for nurses. In the last cycle, there has been a 72 percent wage increase in nurses. But what did you do? They took a month's wages from the Hungarian nurses. So what you're saying here in this speech is the opposite of what was said in the campaign, and even more so, they did the opposite when they were on the government, because it was only the downsizing, the closure, the withdrawal of funds and the privatisation that was typical of that time. And you added this to the fact that during the epidemic you said that the disease might not be worse than the Chinese vaccine. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: I didn't say that. The president's ringing the bell.]] It was literally this: perhaps the disease is no worse than the Chinese vaccine is quoted here. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi intervenes.]] It's embarrassing for you, I understand, Your Honour, but denying it doesn't allow you to do that at the age of the Internet. But I'll keep going, if you like your own quotes so much, there's more. So: -Human experiment to test the Russian vaccine in Hungary. I argue that any vaccination is better than the disease. I'm sure I won't persuade anyone to do a Russian vaccination with such superficial documentation. You said such sentences during the epidemic, which you didn't really ease, only to add to the problem, since you read us the text of the medical oath in Latin here. Hundreds of millions of people owe their health to these vaccines, against which you have tuned the Hungarian people in their greatest fear. As far as health resources are concerned, the last left-wing budget included HUF 11198 billion for health purposes, now included HUF 2670 billion. This means that the surplus is 123 per cent, not a 23 per cent increase, but a 123 per cent increase, more than a double increase. As far as hospitals are concerned, we did not shut down the hospitals in the country, but renovated, in whole or in part, 91 hospitals and 54 clinics. We've upgraded 107 rescue stations, built 23 new clinics, and built 34 new rescue stations to get the ambulance to everyone in time. If you look at how the number of doctors has evolved in recent years, you can see that in 2010 nearly 34,000 doctors worked in Hungary, while now more than 38,000 doctors work in Hungary. So this is also where growth has been felt in recent years. Several doctors can heal from the same number of sources, the number of hospitals decreased at your time, and the doctor's wages decreased. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the level of care has also been reduced. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-28	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr László Földi, KDNP Group asked for a speech with the title "Growing Migration Pressure at the Southern Border." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In the context of geographical, economic and social reasons, both Europe and Hungary have, from time to time, faced threats of a historical scale that they have approached from the southern direction of their borders. British Prime Minister Winston Churchill saw in the Second World War the key to the defeat of Germany and thus the liberation of the continent in an attack on the soft body of Europe from the south, which is an emphatic expression of the need for those who think about protecting Europe to take a close look in this direction. Our ancestors defended our country by building a waiting system against the Turkish conquest in the south. Hundreds of years of fighting have earned the title of the protective bulwark of Christendom. Dear House, CHAPTER XXI In the face of the migrant crisis, the century confronted Europe with a challenge that once again led our attention towards the southern end. Recognizing the possible consequences of this process should, in the sense of common sense, have encouraged decision-makers in Brussels to act with one voice in order to tackle the problem effectively. Unfortunately, the Community failed on this fundamental issue of fate. Contrast statements and a complete lack of consistency did not help, but rather made the situation worse. Thousands of economic immigrants must have thought they were free to go because Europe is waiting for them. The left also applauded enthusiastically for the most impossible Western nonsense, but the Hungarian government chose to defend national interests in this chaotic situation. There have been times in recent years when only Hungary took seriously the obligation to protect the Schengen borders, thus continuing its historic mission as a protector of Europe once again. This role, as history has shown, is not a grateful thing, for hardly helping and thanking us, we receive a jealous and unworthy attack for the blood and sweat we sacrifice on the altar of values we believe in. But we must acknowledge that we have no other option, we must protect ourselves and the Hungarian people, our fate and the fate of Europe are bound together. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot go without saying that the thousands of illegal immigrants who are waiting in Serbia and storming the Hungarian border, while there may be more and more terrorists among them, some also have weapons, and therefore represent an increased security risk. The illegal behaviour of migrants has already suffered many injuries, including police, but the recent clash between migrant gangs has already resulted in a fatal death in addition to Subotica. We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the protection of the border against migrants now has to be partly provided by soldiers, because Ferenc Gyurcsány had once abolished the border guard. Since the Russian-Ukrainian war and the deterioration of the international security situation which has become dangerous as a result require a strengthening of Hungary's military defence, it is appropriate to set up an organisation with specific border protection functions, which relieves the Hungarian Defence Forces from border protection related to the migrant crisis in order to focus its resources on the armed defence of the country. Dear Parliament, The migrant crisis is not over, the pressure on the southern border is increasing, and we still cannot expect a solution from the EU. We must also ensure that the refugees of the fights in the neighbourhood are protected by the country, the development of the defence. At the same time, the economic and energy crisis caused by the war and the failed Brussels sanctions policy, the effects of increasing inflation, must also be taken into account. These challenges are challenging individually, but together they pose a huge threat. One thing is certain: Hungary must endure, too much is at stake. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-30	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can also say, after Batsanyi, that you come, your fates look forward, look out for Slovenia! What happened in Slovenia? In Slovenia, too, there were elections not far from the time when the right-wing government remained in Hungary, only with the exception that there was a left-wing government in place of the right-wing national government. And what was one of the first steps of the new government? The decision to break down the border fence in Hungarian eliminates the protection of borders. And instead of protecting the country and protecting the fence, what did the new Slovenian Prime Minister literally say? migration is part of modern societies and therefore the most effective migration policy is to ensure safe and legal migration. Therefore, the fence will be demolished, the country will be interoperable, an unlimited number of illegal migrants will be allowed in, and they will say that various integration programmes will have to be launched and that this will be the future of Slovenia. Everyone can see pinpointly and clearly what is at stake for an election here in Central Europe. When a left-wing government comes to power, in full compliance with Brussels' expectations, according to the dogmatic expectations there, they said that this was an important election point, and they are breaking down the fence, and they are letting illegal migrants in. We remember the words of Gergely Christmas, they were almost the same, we don't know exactly why, but she said that she probably didn't think that this interview would get home, that they would give all kinds of human help, human rights help to migrants, but they wouldn't campaign with it, they wouldn't post it on the poster, because it wouldn't win an election. [[10.20]] If they had come to power in Hungary, they would have done the same thing as the Slovenian Prime Minister and the Slovenian Government did, not only to abandon, say, the fence and not to send policemen or others who are involved in border protection, but also to break it down, symbolically showing that they are fully in line with the expectations of the left, the liberal side in Brussels. That is why Hungarians can see that if they hadn't supported Fidesz-KDNP, we wouldn't be talking about what kind of border hunters will go to the southern border to ensure the protection of the border, but we would be talking about what happens to the fence that was built earlier. And you can see that people smugglers are getting more aggressive. There have been shootings near the border, sometimes throwing stones, axes, hammers. They've found gas sprays, guns, windows of police cars, plexies of surveillance stations, windows. And the most dramatic was what the congressman referred to, that the Hungarian police and the Hungarian soldiers protected the Hungarian border just a few kilometers from the Hungarian border, the smugglers there conducted a gang war, which turned into a shooting. One man is dead, several people are hurt. These weapons are not thrown away when they are approaching the Hungarian border. These weapons, which are now being fired at each other, are in their pockets as they approach the Hungarian border, towards the Hungarian police, towards the Hungarian soldiers. And they seem to have the potential to do business for them, and they see a mafia-like operation of human smuggling, and they see a business in the future that they are able to go into armed combat, not far from the Hungarian border, to check the border section, in Hungarian, who collects the money for smuggling people. Because they see that in the future it will grow so much that it is worth continuing an armed gang war to control one area. We too are trying to prepare for this, since the figures show a clear increase. In 2020, 46,000 people tried to come through illegally all year round, 122 thousand in 2021. This is more than a double increase. And this year, more than 115 000 people, compared to the 12 months of 12 months of last year, will certainly have a much higher rate of illegal migration. That is why the government decided to set up the border hunting regiment, to recruit the border hunting squadrons during the summer, so that the first squads could appear in the autumn; with a separate contract, with rapid training during the summer, since there is no need to complete the police task here, only part of it, the protection of the border. We can cover the costs of this from the Hungarian Defence Fund, and we can protect the safety of Hungarian people. Within the police force will be this border-hunting regiment, commanders of border-hunters, officers of the police, and the rest of the staff will be contract border hunters, first about 2,200, and then if [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There is a demand for that more pressure, then we can develop it for up to 4,000 people. We will also protect the security of the Hungarian people with border hunters so that there are no such gang wars, shootings and no-go zones in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-12-32	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important challenges facing Hungary is to fight equal opportunities for our country within the framework of European integration. For Fidesz-KDNP as governing power, it is, to say, an official obligation to provide Hungary with the resources that are in principle unconditional. Dear House, The result we have fought for is truly valuable. At the end of a long process, we can say that we are ready to conclude negotiations on development resources. There is a high stake, the EU budget between 2021-27 and the EU's next generation fund combined with a total of EUR 2000 billion. This was otherwise agreed unanimously by the Member States in December 2020, including joint borrowing. The Hungarian Government submitted its recovery plan in May 2021, but it has not yet been approved. The good news is that, on the basis of Minister Navracsics' negotiations, we are now at a point where the government has set out the commitments that have become the preconditions for an agreement as quickly as possible by accepting the Commission's proposals. Let's see these. The most important thing is to reduce the proportion of single-playing public procurement to below 15% in the case of procedures under the national regime. This also coincides with the Government's intentions, the Government's regulation on measures to reduce the number of single tender procurements, a clear guide and a means of guaranteeing results. Second, ensuring the possibility of judicial redress in corruption criminal matters against the decision of the prosecutor. The third issue is the enlargement of social consultation in the case of legislation initiated by the government and, fourth, the government also accepted the proposal to use the loan to increase energy independence. This agreement is important because EU funds include, for example, funds for teachers' wages, and health wage increases are covered by the Restoration Fund's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, If our opposition fellow Members were to ask that our armpits were not cut, we would be happy to answer if we did not know that they were the ones who were doing their best not to reach Hungary. The representatives of the Hungarian Left are lobbying intensively to prevent this agreement. They are damaging the country: they are fighting wage increases for teachers or health workers, while there is no greater irresponsibleness in this current war situation! And foam on the cake, ladies and gentlemen, that although the global minimum tax and the Restoration Fund have nothing to do with each other, left-wing Members in the European Parliament have blackmailed our country in a resolution to give up our tax policy of national interests for the payment of resources due to us under the rights of the subject. This resolution, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is a gross violation of the EU's Treaties, since the principle of loyal cooperation means that different issues cannot be combined. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of György Moldova's legacy, the opposition is now like Jenő Vasmelin, the modest short-distance runner, whose time was measured by the career manager's wife from the rotting of the soup. Here is a great opportunity for your life: you can compete in the long term. It may prove that left-wing representatives have the opportunity to fight for useful things in the European Parliament, but they do not. But watermelon got lost. He has not reached the finish line, he has been running, he is running steadily, and so is the opposition now, although he does not know where he is going, but he is relentlessly attacking national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, The war situation will remain here, and this will create a critical situation in which the national interest will reach an agreement. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So please find the goal, establish a national consensus for all of us, the agreement, the interests of Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-12-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-12-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, First of all, I thank you for the opportunity to finally talk about where we are with the European Commission in our negotiations on EU funds. And it shows that we are speaking factually that, well, the opposition benches are completely empty, and we can see how much the opposition is curious about these factual things. As far as the EU Development Cycle 2021-27 is concerned, we are negotiating in a schedule, as is the case with other EU Member States, but only one third of the EU Member States have signed the Partnership Agreement, and like others, our draft is waiting for a Commission evaluation. The next milestone is the formal submission of all operational programmes by 31 July. The Commission then has five months to approve the programmes and the Commission has promised to do so. [[10.30]] The Partnership Agreement is one step closer. There is even more work to be done in the case of negotiations on the Instrument for Restoration and Resistance, or RRF, because there are clearly more political conditions for RRF, but we are also open to reaching a technical compromise with Brussels. We have sent concrete proposals for solutions and we are looking forward to concluding negotiations and signing the agreements within a few months at the most. We are trying to remove the very sensitive issues that are not closely linked to the use and resources of the European Union from the negotiations, i.e. political issues that do not get mixed up with professional issues. So far, we have been constantly open to the Commission, reflecting on their comments, and continue to negotiate the same way. As the Member said, we have also adopted the Commission's proposals on issues relating to public procurement and corruption criminal matters. We have undertaken to reduce the proportion of single-playing public procurement to below 15%. By the way, the government has already decided on this. Moreover, on this issue, we are not only at the back of the European Union, but we were also specifically in the middle of the European Union. Our further commitment is to introduce measures to encourage even greater participation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In the next period, economic development, competitiveness and infrastructure and job creation will be the focus of our actions. The government has set itself the goal of making our country one of the five most livable Member States of the European Union by 2030. The development of the period 2021-2027 was also planned in this spirit. At least 65% of the funds will be used in the four most disadvantaged Hungarian regions, and our aim is to ensure that all Hungarian regions reach the EU average of development as soon as possible. Compared to earlier, more money will support the development of settlements and the strengthening of the countryside. We will continue to renew the infrastructure of rural villages and cities, support agriculture, build local communities and liveable rural Hungary. More than 23 percent of the cycle's resources, more than HUF 2200 billion will be used in the fields of economic development and infocommunications, but we have also planned significant amounts in terms of environmental protection, energy, transport and tourism. Honourable Congressman, The good situation of the Hungarian economy has also enabled us to make the pre-financing of the new proposals from domestic sources, so we have already announced hundreds of applications worth more than HUF 1700 billion. In the case of negotiations, we have always found a solution, and I am sure that we will continue to find solutions that are acceptable to everyone, so signing agreements will ultimately depend on the European Commission. But it is very important, Member, that the Hungarian left should finally stop digging in Brussels, and not prevent Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, from finally getting the resources that they deserve. Do not prevent Hungary from being one of the five most advanced Member States of the European Union! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-36	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. A joint debate on the proposal for a specific tax on small-duty entrepreneurs follows in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/583. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform you that you have a total time frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, for your further speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-37	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The government submitted yesterday the T/583 on the specific tax of small-taxers. Bill No. 1. The purpose of the bill is to establish legal rules that preserve the positive results of the specific tax on small-tax companies, so that the tax treatment continues to be an attractive tax alternative primarily for the initially targeted category of persons, the smallest taxable persons actually engaged in business activities. In the future, the aim will continue to be to allow the self-selling self-servicer to carry out all of his obligations to pay a public burden, with little administration, by paying a fair amount of tax. In order to achieve these objectives, ten years ago, a regulation was adopted that created a more favourable tax environment than ever before for the smallest companies, typically those providing services to private individuals, and self-employed persons. In addition to reducing the tax rate and the administrative burden, the tax does not aim to whiten the economy through legalisation of income from small business activities. The tax method has been extremely successful, more than 450,000 have been chosen over the years. Unfortunately, simplicity and low public burdens have taken the tax system in an undesirable direction. In addition to the original target group, more favourable conditions have also created opportunities for groups where the use of kata results in a significant reduction of public burdens compared to generally applicable rules. The kata has an increasing income, and not only those actually engaged in business started to use it in bulk. It is a very widespread practice for employers to use the kata to replace work activities, i.e. to transform working relationships, because, in addition to the change in the level of the kata, the increase in wages and minimum wage has made this rate more favourable than the burden on wages paid in normal employment. This harmful practice is a serious competitive disadvantage for employers who employ professionals in a law-abiding way and in employment. The tax is mainly in the event that the revenue generated is close to the HUF 12 million band, which results in a very low public burden payment, which does not comply with the principle of proportionate public burden-sharing. The restrictions introduced in 2021, for example, due to the introduction of a paying tax of 40 per cent on income from the same paying agent exceeding HUF 3 million, the hidden employment was difficult, but at a still low rate of the specific tax, the phenomenon continued to exist. Another problem is that by billing companies that are taxed under the general rules, the kata also provides an opportunity to avoid corporate tax and personal income tax on dividends. These problems have been mentioned several times in several forms in this House, but have also been mentioned in a number of professional forums. In recent weeks, the government has conducted extensive consultations with representatives of professional chambers, accountants, tax advisors. There was agreement between the government and the representatives of the profession that the indisputable results that made Katate a success story must be preserved. [[10.40]] These are the low administrative need, the economic whitening effect of the previously hard-to-tax activities, as well as the fair tax burden on the smallest existences that provide their own services directly to the general public and sell their products. There was also a broad consensus among the participants in the deliberations that the problems encountered during a decade of application should be resolved to preserve the results achieved, but at the same time ensure that the tax system remains an attractive tax alternative for the smallest taxable persons actually engaged in business activities, which are primarily targeted persons. In order to achieve this latter goal and to solve the problems that have arisen, a bill has been put before you. In the future, the proposal will only allow the main self-employed to choose the form of taxation, and typically only those who supply or sell products directly to the general public can take advantage of this option. Therefore, it is not possible for entrepreneurs who carry out their activities in addition to other activities to choose to be a taxable person. For example, it is not possible for the new cata to be a taxing entrepreneur, for example, to be an entrepreneur with an employment relationship. The right to apply the tax will cease even if the self-employed performs a service or sells a product to a paying agent. An exception is the conduct of a taxi driver's passenger service activity. The tax can be applied up to HUF 18 million a year. If the ceiling is exceeded, the contractor shall be subject to a special tax payment of 40 per cent. The level of the public burden payable remains unchanged, and the tax liability of the entrepreneur can still be met by paying a monthly HUF 50 000 item tax. Tax obligations can continue to be achieved simply and with little administration. It is sufficient to register revenue and to submit a simple statement after the tax year. The new legislation should apply from 1 September 2022. The number of persons targeted by the proposed regulation is narrower than the number of persons affected by the current legislation, and according to the old register, the legal entity of taxpayers will automatically cease with the entry into force of the new law. Individual entrepreneurs eligible under the rules for the new category of legal entities must be required to register. On the basis of a statement made by 25 September, the new legal entity will be established from 1 September. Those who do not wish to avail themselves of the possibility of kata or who are no longer entitled to apply it under the new rules should consider which option of available alternatives they choose. For example, the choice of flat-rate taxation regulated by personal income tax can be very beneficial for self-employed persons. The notification of the election will be possible for the year 2022 by 31 October. At present, non-individual entrepreneurs, bt.s, kkt.s, according to the cadastral, can opt for small corporate tax or corporate tax, but they can also choose to become self-employed. In the latter case, they may remain entitled to choose the new kata or to opt for corporate personal income tax under the general rules or for the flat-rate taxation already mentioned. In line with previous years' practice, the election will also be supported by NAV briefings and calculators. In the case of active enterprises, the bill also provides for how to switch from the tax method they apply to the new category and the rules that taxpayers must follow when changing to another tax method. The new legislation, therefore, is intended by the government to preserve the positives of the regulation so far, but it closes the loopholes that have caused taxpayers to behave contrary to legislative intent. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Two opposition representatives submitted an amendment to the bill. One proposal would change the date of entry into force of the proposal to 1 January 2023, including the deadlines for notification and declaration. Among other things, the proposal would leave the provision that it would result in the loss of taxableness if the taxpayer obtained revenue from the paying agent. The second proposal would extend the scope of the law to the provision of an invoice for the provision of services to municipalities, state or budgetary bodies, public companies and other activities. In addition, the proposal would allow for the option of a tax to be re-elected for those engaged in a subsidiary job. The government does not consider any of the proposals to be eligible, as it differs from the original tax policy objectives already stated. The Legislative Committee's proposal contains linguistic and legal clarifications, which the government supports. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your attention, and please let us discuss the law and vote on it this afternoon. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-12-38	I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his speech and to inform him that he has 13 minutes to participate in the further debate and to say a possible closing word. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, within a maximum of eight minutes.
u2022-07-12-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 11 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/583 on the specific tax of small-taxers. Bill No. 1. The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment consisting of technical and linguistic specifications. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 12 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us sets out new legal rules for small-tax entrepreneurs, which guarantee the purpose of the tax which was originally defined. The proposal makes this simple form of taxation attractive to the smallest self-employed under favourable conditions up to an annual revenue threshold of HUF 18 million. Among the criticisms, there is an emphasis on the spread of hidden employment. This is well illustrated by the fact that by 2020, some 40% of all the katák were previously employed. The worsening trend is also well indicated by the fact that in 2019 or 2020 this ratio was already above 50 per cent for kata. As a result of the restrictions introduced in 2021, employment in hiding was difficult, but the phenomenon continued to exist. The ever-increasing growth of people from employment is a serious competitive disadvantage for employers who are legally employed by professionals. The new legislation has been developed on the basis of feedback received from the Chamber in order to avoid harming the state budget, workers and decent taxpayers, as well as allowing self-employed persons to pay a fair-to-value tax with little administration. Bleaching the economy and reducing the tax burden have always been a priority in national governments' policies, unlike before 2010, when the tax system was anti-work and family, a black economy and a system to avoid public burdens. [[10.50]] We know that if it were up to the left, the family tax reduction would be abolished again, the 13th month pension would be lifted, or the social contribution tax would be raised. We know that because this has already happened before 2010, during the governance of the left. We also remember that under the governance of the left, if the state was seeking extra income, it was charged to citizens and small businesses by levying a new tax. We remember because this was done before 2010, during the governance of the left. However, as of 2010, this process ended by extending the burden-sharing to banks and multinational corporations, reducing corporate tax, personal income tax and labour-related contributions. Despite war inflation, the energy crisis and economic difficulties, we can see that we are insisting that we maintain our earlier achievements: the income tax exemption for people under the age of 25, the tax relief of families or the specific tax on small-tax companies, which the government not only keeps to the circle originally intended to help, but also extends to the income limit of HUF 18 million. In view of this, we propose the adoption of a bill on the specific tax of small-tax entrepreneurs. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-12-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion in the committee is presented by Mr Zsolt Gréczy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Orbán government has destroyed Hungary, and we have reached a next chapter of this step with what is going on, and surely you can see that thousands of people are already out on Kossuth Square and protesting against what my fellow Member here Fidesz thought he had to protect him from. The law ahead of us will start a lot of debates on Katás businesses, a professional analysis, a discussion of the brutal consequences, my opposition colleagues will say in the debate. On the package of proposals, opposition representatives in the Committee on Legislative Affairs spoke extremely hard. According to opposition parties, this tax law destroys hundreds of thousands of companies, it makes me insecure, and this austerity package, this tax increase, was not mentioned before 3 April. You did not speak of it before 3 April, deceiving voters that this favourable form of taxation would be abolished. According to opposition parties, the lack of development and haste is proof that the pro-government amendments were made to correct spelling errors in the first version, so the first legislation could not be drawn up with perfect grammatical correctness. The opposition parties see that the impossibility of catalysmic businesses is a confession to the fact that the budget, the country's finances are in trouble, and this is another attempt to save the budget, which has been put together without real coordination, and which has passed through in a few days. At yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Committee, Fidesz MEP acknowledged that there would be some people in difficulty. On the contrary, it has been said that it is unacceptable that in the middle of summer, during the holidays, hundreds of thousands of businesses are forced to abandon the system so far, to think about the future, to run to tax advisors, to accountants. Minister Gergely Gulyás promised on four points in last week's government briefing that they would adapt to the EU's expectations in order to finally obtain money. The third point, I quote, is that before the legislation initiated by the government, there will also be time for social consultation. The government is reducing the rate of rapid legislation. Well, that's what that promise was worth. It didn't last for a few days. And they wonder if the EU money doesn't come, and no one takes your prime minister seriously. In a few days, this Katás package will undertake to operate with a cleaver instead of a scalpel, further deepening the crisis of Hungary, which has been destroyed by the Orbán government. Dear House, The opposition parties, divided by the people's deep outrage, do not support the destruction of the catalysmic businesses. We call on the government to withdraw the proposal, to begin the substantive discussion, and to definitely not set unfulfilled deadlines for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families and businesses in the middle of summer. The bill is rejected uniformly by the opposition, it has not been supported in the Legislative Committee, and it is obviously not going to support it here in the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP, DK and Dialogue.]]
u2022-07-12-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Boglárka Elijah.
u2022-07-12-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the proposal for a law on the specific tax of small-taxers on the House's table, as the Minister of State has already explained in detail in the Expozé, is to establish new legal rules that preserve the positive results of the specific tax on small-tax enterprises, ensuring that the tax does not continue to be an attractive tax alternative primarily for the initially targeted category of persons, the smallest taxable persons actually engaged in business activities. As of 1 January 2013, the specific tax on small-tax enterprises, commonly known as kata, was introduced on the basis of the legislative intention to create a more favourable tax environment for the smallest companies, typically providing services to private individuals, self-employed persons. In addition to reducing the tax rate and the administrative burden, the objective of introducing a tax was to whiten the economy by legalising income from small business activities. Therefore, the tax was made primarily for those selling to the general public, and therefore having invisible revenues, typically from small-scale activities. In about a decade since its introduction, the amendments adopted resulted in the kata being made available to businesses that are able to generate more revenue, perhaps even to pay for it, which, however, raised a number of problems. Dear House, The bill before us continues to offer low-value, low- administration, simple forms of taxation to small-scale companies. The new legislation is necessary because, on the basis of the data received and the Chamber feedback, some employers forced their employees into catechism, thereby damaging the state register, workers and decent taxpayers. The new kata eliminates abuses and offers more favourable conditions for the smallest entrepreneurs selling to the population. As I mentioned earlier, the new kata, the specific tax of small-tax entrepreneurs, offers a simple and reduced tax method for the smallest self-employed up to the income threshold of HUF 18 million per year. The tax rate for every small businessman is HUF 50,000 a month. The rules of the new kata can also create clear relationships in order to exclude bogus employment. The form of taxation can only be chosen by self-employed operators providing services to the general public and selling products. In this way, the income of new ones can only come from individuals. The new rules, as Mr Secretary of State said, will enter into force on 1 September 2022, but the rules on registration are already in force on 1 August 2022. Dear House, It is important to note that currently around 450 thousand companies in Hungary are taxed according to the specific tax of small companies and the small company tax. A specific tax on small companies is one of the simplest and least tax-bearing tax types in the European Union, offering relief to small businesses, but it is not good for anyone if large companies abuse the rules and use it as an alternative to employment. Unfortunately, in recent years Hungary has seen that while the cata has fulfilled the whitening hopes, it has led tens of thousands of individual entrepreneurs and small businesses in this direction, in the intended direction, many companies can use it as an alternative form of employment. However, such abusive use of the kata reduces not only the revenue of the state register but also distorts competition on the market. [[11.00]] With all this in mind, we can say that the bill can eliminate abuses, and it also offers more favourable conditions for the smallest entrepreneurs selling to the population, so I respectfully ask you to support the bill. Instead of supporting a disproportionate reduction in public burdens, I would like to ask you to stand on the side of the actual taxpayers, instead of misinterpreting the intention of the bill before us, to limit it to its real content, instead of supporting the increase of the amount of HUF 12 million to the revenue threshold of HUF 15 million... [[Dr. István Apáti: 18 million HUF!]] Raise 18 million HUF to the threshold. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Stay calm. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group, and give the chair of the meeting to Mr Vice-President. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-07-12-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If my fellow Member, Mr Boglárka, is at such a pace, may I remind you that you have taken the liberty of referring to events 15 years ago to some of the things that you have done: the disappearance of private pension funds, the destruction of health care, the persecution of CEU, the pursuit of civil society organisations. That's what you've been doing over the years as a fact. This could continue for a long time, but for the sake of small entrepreneurs, I would like to draw your attention to what you should not do. And I am doing this in a way and I am also telling my fellow Member to think about it when I am talking to the demonstrators, including some of them, and I mention that a synchronized dramaturg tells me that his work is practically finished, because he works for film studios, and that his work is made impossible by the regulation you bring here, because institutions or companies are buying from him. The same category includes a gentleman who makes publications promoting Hungarian folk music, who lives and does this with his family. And he can't keep it up, because there's a lot of institutions buying from him. But in the same way, I can say the creative shop owner, who is a katás entrepreneur, and he is preparing skills development tools and tools for our children, kindergarteners and schoolchildren that teachers buy from him with the support of local governments, but you are making it impossible with this regulation. Do you think what's happening here should be supported from this point of view? What I'm saying is that he's not eligible at all, and that's what this law is supposed to do. [[The congressman's making a throwaway move.]] If they had the courage. But I don't. Instead, they come here and try new austerity measures, and as part of that, they introduce it. And they do so with the irresponsibleness of you bringing in a law over the past ten years. I'm sorry, it was modified in 2016, by law being passed only by conducting an impact assessment. But instead, since they didn't bring it, they're gonna punch it in the stomach without consulting and submit this bill. You are a part of this, and you are a part of it, because you encourage us to accept it after the Minister of State has been introduced, because the Minister has not had the courage to come here and defend the law he has written. Instead, the story is that you should be doing this. But there is no such study, no matter what we ask of you. Or did you see it? Is that why you say that with such contempt for death, to support you? Madam Member, I do not support you. That's my point. 'Cause what they brought here is just protecting the multi-party against the catnip. You are in favour of the taxation of those who are not supported, voted down, brought here a proposal, and then brought a austerity measure to small businesses as part of the Orbán package, because the serious consequence of their ruined economic policy is that Hungary has not only a record state debt but also a record inflation. Orbán inflation. And don't lie to anyone that this has anything to do with the war. Because it's none of your business, Congresswoman. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There is no war!]] This is only the result of the ruined economic policy you and your support. That's how they destroy families, destroy them, and now specifically target 450,000 people, most of them in order to put them in that position. Excuse me, your intention is to collect money, and in order to finance your expenses, you will do so. This is what the amendment to the law on catalysm taxation submitted is about. A proposal matching the brutal Orbán austerity package, which makes many people impossible from 1 September. This change consciously eliminates tens of thousands of people, but we could say much more. If you had an impact assessment, you would certainly show me the exact number of this. But, Mr. Deputy Secretary, perhaps you will tell us exactly how many people are affected. What I'm saying is, tonight, tens of thousands of people, individual and small entrepreneurs, are going to ask themselves, "Do you work black from 1 September, or are you going to close the blinds?" That's the question. The aforementioned dramaturg, the convenience store owner, and all those who have been put in this position. Therefore, according to the Democratic Coalition, despite the inflation in Orbán and the special tax, they have now included the cataclysms in this circle and are also trying to make them impossible. This weak government not only brings weak forints, it raises taxes, it comes to us with a tax increase, and it raises the taxes of these people significantly. Therefore, I would like to upset your attention or conscience at seven plus one point, so that you may at least think a little about what you are doing at times. You're trying to reduce the original target personnel, while it affects a much larger circle. As a first point, on the basis of the Chamber feedback, some employers have forced workers into a cataclysmic relationship. I'm just gonna ask you quietly who the Chamber stands for in this line of work. You? Because if it's your extended hand, then at least I understand what's happening. Another awareness-raising reminder, in the midst of the Orbán austerity, is that we are talking about a tax increase, and a lot of people will be raising their taxes, because you are essentially eliminating the Kata, and the new option will mean a lot more taxes for a large number of people. It is calculated that it is at least HUF 1 million per person that affects all taxpayers. The only basis of the calculations was that it was 600,000 HUF and, compared to last year, it had to pay 1 million HUF more each year in the next period. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] That's why we're assuming you think hundreds of thousands of people are catapults. What I don't know is how they do it, because, as I said, no impact assessment, they can only do it based on their theory. But instead of the theory, I'd like to say a blow to the stomach, because they have no intention but to collect money from somewhere. Let's see who else has it. Here's one. We'll take it away from them. So you're calling people crooks without any justification. Then I can go on with the fact that narrowing down the scope of activity excludes many from the cataclysmic circle. So they sneaky also do so by reducing this opportunity and redirecting them back into the normal tax framework. [[11.10]] It was not prepared for the proposal, as I said, any impact assessment, and I would like to mention this once again, so that you do not forget, although you have completely stopped, at least to provide Parliament with appropriate information in this regard. It is unacceptable that the amendment will enter into force as early as September this year. There's no such thing in the world! I don't know where they take the liberty. This must be treated on an equal footing with backward legislation, although you did not have a problem with it either. This is not the case, either, and the tax burden is being changed during the year, and the person who thought that in the next few weeks he would try to recover from your inflationary persecution with some rest will have no chance of doing so, because otherwise he will have to think calmly and calmly about what his family will make a living in terms of facing this change from autumn onwards. I'd like to announce... I'm sorry, but before I do this, Mr. Secretary, help me with the next one. The new Cata Law completely excludes pensioners from this form of taxation. Can you understand that, or can you interpret it differently? I think it's 1. Paragraph 2, paragraph 2. It follows from point (2) (b) of Section 2 that pensioners cannot participate in this. Please note that this conclusion cannot be drawn from the Slendrian law, clearly stating that they do not have such an intention and can therefore make the statement in substance and, if necessary, accept such an amendment by the government. Next, I would like to announce that, precisely in order to sense in some way that what you are doing now is not only unconstitutional in our view of the Republic, which you have abolished, but also in accordance with their Fundamental Law. That is why we are sure that we will take the initiative and we will be involved in turning to the Constitutional Court to examine the possibility that otherwise your hasty legislation will be prevented, removed, and the irresponsible things that my fellow Member urges us to vote for, we cannot and will not support. Not even because of this bonus proposal for you, because Minister Gergely Gulyás takes the trouble to announce it, because of the four points he said in point 3, that there will also be time for social consultation before the legislation initiated by the government, the government will reduce the rate of rapid legislation. Hooray! Are we seeing an example of this right now that you do not want quick legislation? [[Zoltán Vajda: We had three hours!]] Dear Congresswoman, Have you thought about what you just said when you asked me for support instead? I won't support it! Rather, respect European standards that, in such a change of scale, they do make an opinion, study, background study, report on its effects here, inform us, and otherwise give us time to debate the law. If you cannot do this, on the contrary, dear Congresswoman, do not support this law. Mr President, thank you very much for your kind attention. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-07-12-46	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-07-12-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Congressman Varju just said that he recently visited the protesters and talked to them, which is what the Member referred to. [[László Varju: I didn't just quote, I was there!]] And the congressman also said who we call tax frauds. We call tax frauds who have done this, such as Csaba Czeglédy, a tax fraud because he is a tax criminal. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Zoltán Vajda: Katás entrepreneur Csaba Czeglédy! László Varju: My lawyer!]] Your bosom friend, your lawyer, your candidate and your personal friend are tax frauds. Csaba Czeglédy, convicted tax criminal, honourable Member. We call them who they are, even if they're your... [[László Varju: Repeat this, Congressman, once more.]] Tax criminal Csaba Czeglédy, there is a verdict [[László Varju: Thank you very much. The president's ringing the bell.]] "Deputy judgment from 2004, earlier. The Member also objected to the fact that he said such a sentence that the idea of the Republic is not in line with the fact that something will enter into force on 1 September, that it is so close to adoption and entry into force. You know, June 10, 2006 Ferenc Gyurcsány... [[Zoltán Vajda laughs.]] Congressman, you will have your say. I understand this weekend's defeat has hit the Honourable Congressman... [[The president's gonna ring the bell. Zoltán Vajda: I won a bet, Lawrence!]]
u2022-07-12-48	Please, Congressman, discipline yourself.
u2022-07-12-49	Let's forgive him, Mr. President, for his two-thirds defeat at the XVIth. Circuit! On 10 June 2006, at the National Stakeholder Council, Ferenc Gyurcsány said that 50 days later, I understand that the Member does not care, but 50 days later it increases the price of gas by 30 percent for households and 14 percent the price of electricity. On 10 June, Ferenc Gyurcsány told people that 50 days later he would levy a 4 percent solidarity tax on profitable businesses and people with income above HUF 6 million. On 10 June 2006, Ferenc Gyurcsány also said that, as of 1 October, he raised the key of the Eva from 15 percent to 25 percent, raising the key of the Eva by 10 percent in three months, honourable Member. Where were you, where were your large-edged speeches, to call upon Ferenc Gyurcsány not to do that, in 50 days and three months, he raises taxes by 10 percent and raises the price of residential gas by 30 percent? You remember, Congressman, this was the year you cheated the election with fake numbers. Remember, honourable Member, this was the year in which a budget deficit of 3 percent was foreseen and it became 9 percent. Do you remember that, Your Honour? You were a State Secretary during this period, a responsible member of the government, involved in this horror. [[László Varju: By the way, this is not true! But that doesn't mean you can't say it. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] This happened on 10 June 2006 at the National Stakeholder Council. Let's see what happened in September 2012 [[Sándor Szabó: Talk about Kata!]] In September 2012, in Parliament's debate on kata, honourable Member. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We can go back to 1992!]] I am talking about 2012, the parliamentary debate of the kata, which you are reluctant to recall, because the fact is, honourable Member, that you did not support the kata. [[Zoltán Vajda: So what?]] You go out to protesters and try to use people's protests for political gain without your support for the introduction of the kata, you said no. Dániel Z. Kárpát expressed his abstention and did not vote; István Apáti, Előd Novák, László Varju, Timea Szabó, Gergely Christmas, Rebekah Szabó did not vote for the introduction of the cat. They didn't vote for a small company tax. [[Dr. István Apáti: You put it in salad! You put it in a salad, which is unbearable!]] They didn't vote for kata. The MSZP did not just abstain; the MSZP voted against, honourable Members [[Dr. István Apáti: Explain to the demonstrators.]] Zsolt Molnár, István Hiller and the others who were here at the time and are now out of Parliament. [[László Varju: And that gives you the right to change it? The president's ringing the bell.]] You are now coming here to defend an institution that, when you were on the government, you were not thinking about introducing it, and when we brought it here to Parliament, you did not support it and you did not vote for it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Then explain to pensioners why you are taking them out.]] We are in the debate of a law that, if it had been up to you, would not have been introduced after 2012, 1 January 2013. You are defending something that has not been introduced in the government, and then you have not supported it here in Parliament, honourable Members. (Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat) Replaced by László Földi.) I can quote you from the parliamentary debate at that time. He said that the head speaker of the MSZP should listen carefully, Congressman Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP, said that I thought that he would only share with his political community. [[Zoltán Vajda: You too!]] He said that it is expected that the taxes of specific taxes and the taxes of self-employed individuals, the tax of small companies, were also good for the first time, but if we look at it more closely, we are faced with many, many problems. You have insulted the small company tax and the introduction of the kata throughout the debate, ladies and gentlemen. The MSZPs lead speaker, the right-wing lead speaker, DK, then an independent speaker, and the LMP lead speaker scolded him all along. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You misunderstood! We're not talking about small business taxation. We're talking about your behavior.]] Where, for example, was the VOSZ, honourable Member [[Dr. István Apáti: Tell me something about this proposal. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] To call on the left to vote? ! [[Dr. István Apáti: Not about what you were at the Tartar walk 20 years ago. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-07-12-50	Don't yell at him, Congressman. [[He's jogging the bell.]] I call for you to stop, because the next step is to get out of the room.
u2022-07-12-51	We are talking about ten years ago, honourable Member, not Tartarwalking. I understand that today you wake up and come here to be the saviors of small businessmen, and then you face the fact that you didn't even support the law. I understand that this hurts you and your image, because this morning, when you looked in the mirror, you thought today you'd be saving small businessmen. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are multinationals!]] Even though you have not supported these measures and have not tried to introduce these measures in the government. [[11.20]] What suggestions did you make for small entrepreneurs when they were in government? Remember, 36 percent was the upper limit of hers. [[A statement from the opposition: And zero is the bottom!]] Mr Varju's list somehow left out the 36 percent personal income tax or the 19 percent corporate tax, and so on, I can only list the measures that you have hit small businesses, small businesses and Hungarian people. Let's quote from your home page, Népszava, two years ago. Népszava writes two years ago: the specific tax on small-taxing enterprises has become too popular in recent years, companies have largely outsourced their employees to companies that have been creaking out their employees, thus saving significant taxes, and workers have fallen away from a significant pension. We don't say that. It's your home page, Your Honour. Your paper says two years ago [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] That it is not good for workers to have this abusive employment, that it is employment that is hidden, that it is outsourcing the otherwise normal work in catechism enterprises. It's in your paper, fellow Members. You said in the debate in Parliament how wrong it is and how wrong it is to introduce small company tax, kiva and specific tax, kata. My request, ladies and gentlemen, is to back off a little bit. It is possible to have a meaningful debate on Hungarian economic policy, I think it is very important to help small businesses, I think it is very important to help medium-sized enterprises, I think it is very important that we help Hungarian-owned enterprises no matter how big they are. [[Antal Csárdi: in 48 hours?! In 48 hours?!]] Just look inside you for the first time when you voted against this law, and if it had been up to you, it wouldn't have been introduced. When you were in the government, small businessmen with you lost, honourable Members. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] In 2006, in the years of wealth, Ferenc Gyurcsány ordered tax increases within a month, a 10% tax increase, a 4% tax increase and so on, a 30% gas price increase. Hasn't that hit small businessmen, my fellow Members? The circle that remains in the Katák after the adoption of this law is a tax reduction, because the same tax should be paid for 18 million HUF instead of 12 million HUF revenue. [[László Varju: All artificial nails, you know, but only those who go to the Ripper family!]] The threshold will be HUF 18 million instead of HUF 12 million, the tax rate will remain the same, honourable fellow Members. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] A meaningful debate on how to help small entrepreneurs can be held. It is also possible to have a meaningful debate on how to protect workers from, for example, their employers taking away from them pension contributions, pension contributions that are due to them, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] That's what's going on. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Bring Vietnamese workers]] If you were really speaking in the interests of the workers, you would talk about this, and you would also talk about apologizing to small entrepreneurs, that for ten years, if it had been up to you, it wouldn't have been like that, because you didn't vote for it then. And they also apologize for the fact that in the period 2002-2010, small entrepreneurs were the worst in your economic spree, and they were the losers of your politics outside of the Hungarian families. [[László Varju: We have 20 percent inflation now, Congressman!]] Only then, of course, VOSZ did not raise its voice; nor in 2012 did DK and MSZP not vote for kata and kiva. Speak about this, fellow Members, because it is possible to say big words here, you can give upset speeches here in Parliament, but let László Varju also talk about this outside [[László Varju: You're very welcome!]] to apologize to people for not supporting this measure in 2012. [[László Varju: I apologize in your name for doing what you're doing right now! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-07-12-52	Congressman Varju, please hold back.
u2022-07-12-53	We listened to the congressman for 14 minutes, he wasn't... We listened to him, but it wasn't our favorite thing to do, but we listened, because it's important that... [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] what you are saying is important, and so is it with you, honourable Member. (Zoltán Vajda intervenes.) I would like to ask you to carry out this debate in this spirit. Here are those Members sitting among us, and here are the parties sitting among us, which ten years ago said that no, no, no, ten years ago they said that small entrepreneurs should not receive such advantages. [[A statement from the opposition.]] And here are those Members and political parties sitting among us, on the side of the parliamentary horseshoe who do not want to protect workers from paying less pension contributions than they would otherwise be after their wages, and here we have you, the Members and the political parties who have never given discounts to small businesses in any way, and who have even hit them with austerity. I would ask you to carry out the debate in this spirit as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2022-07-12-54	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2022-07-12-55	Mr President, Dear House, It is quite an amazing argument from my fellow Member Nacsa that if the pre-2010 economic policy era, which I do not like, could do something that is not good, then you can do it with the yellow shovel in the sandbox. [[László Varju: That's right!]] That's what you told me. [[Zoltán Vajda: That's right!]] Quite pathetic, quite amazing argument. But before we get to the topic, I have to respond to the Bolshevik tempo that Mrs. Fidesz-speaker has said here, and I am quite shocked at it, so when they put their arguments in the debate on Kata, when they are so emotional and so confident, I always know that they are trying to protect something indefensible, but when the congresswoman comes up here with such arguments that she thinks the opposition would abolish the family tax and what it was before 2010... Look, I've been in Parliament since 2010. There may be sweaty arguments here about what you think I'd do, but at least pretend to play democracy. The Bolshevik janitor's tempo, as you argue here, that you tell us how we think, that's what you're qualified for, and who doesn't support the party and you, the enemy of the system and communism, you don't even notice, but you're acting the same way that you're acting against 30 years ago, I think you're going into a virtual battle. So I'm asking you to refrain from this. And when the congresswoman tells me that you have extended the burden of public transport to the multitasks, I seriously wonder which movie you're watching. Congresswoman, what was the government that brought tax haven tax rates to multinational companies in Hungary and reduced the tax burden paid by multinationals? The key was reduced from 15 to 8-9 percent, and you understand three times out of non-refundable grants, three times? ! they give the multinationals as much as the pre-2010 era, against which I gave a speech at a press conference and a demonstration when it gave too much dotation to multi-businesses and too little to Hungarian micro- and small- and medium-sized enterprises, and you tripled it. Well, they give hundreds of billions of dollars in non-refundables to companies that don't need it, they often tell you that, but you're doing everything you can to pamper multinationals, and that's the real face of Fidesz. Your real strategic partners are the Western European multi-networks, and for these purposes they will even withdraw from the global minimum tax, even though they know very well that if the 137 countries concerned were to introduce this at the same time, they would pay more taxes and would not withdraw from Hungary, but that very few, patheticly low corporate tax payments would be a little more, and perhaps Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises could be supported with this amount. You say no to that. You are defending the multinationals, caressing them with all the tools, and at the same TAB meeting yesterday and now in front of Parliament, you are bringing in a brutal part of the Orbán austerity package, which, of course, is facing the Hungarian small entrepreneurs, and, well, let's be honest, one of my colleagues said that they wanted to chase a mosquito with an axe, and it is true. You created the kata system. If there is abuse, we will eliminate it, and we fully agree that hidden employment is not a good thing. But, I beg you, where do you live? Not XXI. In the century? Wasn't he, by the way, so much in the middle of a global era? All kinds of transactions, all accounts are cleared by the NAV. What you're talking about is a software issue. Work it out. That's the battle mission. A NAV software should be created to filter out all forms of abuse in the middle of the digital age in the era of electronically recorded transactions. If a company finds that there's a suspicious number of jobs involved, will they come to Parliament to take out the kata? Why don't you tell me that if there's a suspicious amount of katy employed, we're doing a targeted check based on an algorithm? Do you know what the end of the targeted inspection would be? All the hidden employment would be revealed. That's all you have to do, not this clowning you're bringing here. As part of the Orbán austerity package, you want to save on Hungarian businesses, raise taxes against Hungarian people who are not just anyone, they are not your allies, because they are multi-enterprises, but multi-enterprises provide only one third of the jobs in Hungary. The people we are talking about, the people you are vengeful of, the people you are hunting for independence, they provide, you know, two thirds of the jobs in Hungary, and they do not receive the same amount of support as your strategic partners, the multi-businesses, they get from you, and it was right to say that, where appropriate, a million higher tax burden. Well, that's what they're trying to explain. Why don't you do that? Why not make a software question in the middle of the digital age out of a software-solvable question? Why do they want a political war while I say it again to the multi-business community, they're always being nice. [[11.30]] So if we were to summarize what we would demand of you in this situation, Jobbik would demand four points. In the first round, eliminate the demise of professional groups and remove the municipalities and the relevant parts of the public sphere from this circle of activities. Among the specific examples was that if someone builds a clay stove to order a municipal institution, they can no longer do so on the basis of your new rules. That's crazy, that's bullshit! Congresswoman, this is leading the process towards the black economy. Well, it's your argument exactly why the government shouldn't be doing what they're doing. I'm quite amazed at this. As a second point, as I mentioned, this is a software question: if a company has too much katázás, targeted controls are used to eliminate abuse. We agree, it's just a very bad way to do this. So they want to start a nuclear war against a swarm of mosquitoes, it's amazing! Third, explain to me by any Fidesz or KDNP lead speaker that, in addition to a side job or pension, if it was possible to earn income as a cataclysm, why can't it be from autumn? Why would they even want to raise the tax burden on pensioners in such a hypothetical case? So our third claim is clearly that, as a secondary occupation, it is possible to obtain income by means of a cataclysm in a socially difficult situation, too. Don't squeeze these very difficult countrymen any more. We see that there is a fidesz austerity package, we see that they cannot handle the crisis very well, but at least they are not doing this with the most difficult people. If they want to change and I hope that they will end up taking me back from this thieving pace and making fair changes, then they should do so on 1 January. Without any professional basis [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't vote for it!]] the October date mentioned by the Secretary of State on 1 September, which upsets not only the summer of the cataclysms, that in mid-August an accountant should be sought, not only the world of accountants, that such a problem should be solved in a month or two, but this is already harmful to the national economy, what is happening. Once again, from the black economy to fair economic processes, we should take this package back and try to negotiate it in a fair way, according to our four points. What we see is that the point in your eyes is that the middle class that takes responsibility for society, the middle class that fights for its independence in a very difficult situation, is being pushed a little down into the addiction system that is your life, which is your world. So this is half-feudalism mixed with Bolshevism, which is Bolshevism on the media scene and feudalism on the village. This is your system, this is your world, and what we see is that by pushing you into this addiction, you are kicking off an unspoken social contract. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't vote for it!]] This unspoken social agreement was about not only being fair in your time, but having failed to build a fair, healthy national economy in 32 years. They failed to build up supply systems; both social and pension systems are creaking, unable to guarantee self-preservation or any other type of security. The other half of the unspoken contract was that you would not guarantee this, but at least take as little as possible from what the Hungarian man makes with his extra work, with his side job taken from his family in time. And at least by working to the death, the majority of Hungarians should manage, stay on the surface, and, if necessary, have a middle class at the end, if they are very, very clingy? This is the image of Hungary, a very, very difficult socio-cultural situation. And you guys just kicked it. Once again, they want to push people who, on the other hand, do not receive age-related security, decent health care or social care into your sick, psychotic addiction system, to be evicted, subjected to work-based veganism, and who, in the true Czechoslovak-style way, bring the interests of workers here, I beg you. Thousands, tens of thousands of guest workers from Indonesia and Vietnam are bringing guest workers to the neck of the Hungarians, who are breaking down the wage level of Hungarian workers, and who are making Hungarian workers work harder to work and you are talking about protection? And Mr Parragh's job would be to protect the interests of Hungarian workers at least at a basic level. I am very curious to know what will be in the announcement box during the next chamber fee period during the 5 thousand HUF period. There's a special application for this, by the way, but there's something really amazing about this operation. All in all, we would like to tell you not to bother the rest of the middle class threatened by slipping off, let these people, under the unspoken social contract, somehow live on the back of the ice, get from one to two, and not force them into a situation that belongs to your half-feudal relationship. And what we're really talking about here, Congresswoman, is that what you're bringing is unviable. According to your current regulations, if you're a personal trainer in a gym, you can continue your life the way you've been, he's billing you to individuals, right? But if you're a group lecturer, and you're doing a group training for the same people, you're already signed with the room, and you can't continue your life as a cat anymore. So it's completely unviable, it's quoting the regulation of the '60s and '70s that you put down here. In two days, such work is possible, so it's like trying to prepare for a test in two days instead of three weeks. What we see is that with the lives of entire professional groups, you're playing this game... [[To András Tállai:]] The Secretary of State laughs. Yeah, that's what you're saying. We're talking about full trades here, and this conceited, pathetic laugh... Yes, they're bringing him here in 2012 under a salad law. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't vote for it!]] consciously putting the laws together so that there is something that the opposition cannot vote for. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't vote for it!]] , consciously putting the laws together so that there is something that the opposition cannot vote for (the president bell rings) And then, laughing, cocky buffoon, they call the same in Parliament, as if anyone here was against small businessmen in Parliament at any time. (Lőrinc Nacsa: You didn't vote for it!) It is quite amazing that, while pampering multinationals, they are not so courageous, they are able to sweep aside national interests when they do not collect fair taxes from multinational companies. Congresswoman won't stand up for a press conference. Why do we support the Audi when it does not need it and why do we not support the Hungarian small entrepreneur with job creation support? There is no national interest in serving German car manufacturers! In this case, they try to refer to national interests when they bring a austerity package here in relation to Hungarian businesses and the lives of Hungarian entrepreneurs. That is why I reject the fact that the multinationals are doing their best to protect and that Hungarian entrepreneurs continue to be burdened. I understand that they are trying to bring the Hungarian small entrepreneur into their addiction system, our countrymen who are trying to progress under very difficult conditions, but that will not work, my fellow Members. If these people slip out of the middle class, they're gonna need social transfers instead of carrying the national economy on their backs, then that pedestal is gonna slip out of you, too. You're in a very, very dangerous field. I trust their judgment and that there is a way back from here. So really, withdraw this package, not only the opposition, I think the pro-government people can see these life-like problems, which can be illuminated here by a gym example, and you will not be able to answer that. I don't know why that makes sense to you or how it's gonna be lifelike. You can't make this lifelike. University lecturers, pot stove builders, personal trainers, flower shopkeepers make life impossible. These people take extra work, extra effort, they pay taxes, they employ people, you leave them out of the statistics a lot, because in terms of wage statistics, which they like to refer to, the under-five people are not included in this circle, and these people are making very serious efforts to keep their existence from being taken away from them! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-07-12-56	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anna Russian, the lead speaker of the Group of the Momentum.
u2022-07-12-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group who are here, honourable members of the Fidesz Government. Before the election, you posted a poster for the country by saying that Hungary is going forward, not behind. If anyone had a question mark about where Hungary was going in advance, it became clear in the few months since the election that we were going ahead in record inflation, we were going ahead in the energy crisis, we were going ahead in the price of the euro. At least they were telling the truth about this campaign. While it's such a big problem, while everyone feels double-digit inflation every single day, you're destroying 400,000 people's small businesses in a single day. There was no consultation on this in exceptional procedures and speed yesterday, and today there will be a vote on this bill. In the middle of the crisis, during the summer holidays, Katács companies are virtually eliminated, and this puts 300 to 400 thousand people in serious trouble. If you are to vote in favour of this amendment, you will, at best, have the choice to move to a personal entrepreneurial form based on a sjaja or a cft. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Kiva...]] This entails a great deal of additional burden, both financially, financially and administratively, with hundreds of thousands of forints in excess of the current spending for catering entrepreneurs each month. [[11.40]] In worse cases, however, this could lead to bankruptcy or tax evasion for the ditches, and the result of your decision may be that many people are forced into the black economy. May I remind you that your government has made a decision to introduce the Kata in 2013. If they were dissatisfied with this tax, they had nearly ten years to make it fairer or to improve it. During the last ten years of economic activity, they would have had the opportunity to correct this tax, but no, you're waking up one day at a time when it's time to wipe it all out, the way it is, and basically throwing everything into vulnerability and the edge of the gap. And I didn't mention at the time that while small businessmen are being destroyed overnight, you're going to be on fire to avoid introducing a minimum global tax and a little bit of it. more taxes should be paid to businesses whose profits are above HUF 300 billion per year. They are launching an economic and diplomatic campaign against the European Union and the United States to protect these extraordinarily profitable companies while pushing small businesses to the brink of vulnerability. Is this how you protect the interests of Hungarian entrepreneurs? ! You are unwilling to speak frankly about the crisis we are facing and that the budget deficit has been unleashed. Your pre-election distribution, which has been eaten up by inflation since then, their senseless campaign against the Union, is threatening our country with a serious economic crisis of over 400 forints. We understand that they think it's summer, and they'll soon forget about it, but what they're doing to the Katas now, everyone will remember, because no government can treat hundreds of thousands of taxpayers so irresponsiblely. Finally, I would like to share with you some of the quotes that have flooded the social media yesterday as a result of their announcement. Quote follows: I'm retired, and I've been working in book publishing for about 10 years, with unchanged prices. The most annoying thing is that in a month and a half you have to figure out what to do, you have to go through a lot of things from being a lawyer, you have to pay a lot of expenses, and in a month and a half, I might not get any extra income, even though I couldn't make a living on my pension. As a woman living in the countryside, with few local job opportunities, I worked for online companies with Internet expertise and translation at an absolute small fish level, struggling to survive. Now they're ruining me, too. I supplement my salary under the bottom of the frog, of course I only have company clients. I don't know how they're gonna end up at the end of the month. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I could tell you all these stories by the end of the day. In the name of these people and on behalf of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, I ask you to leave small entrepreneurs alone. With the Momentum fraction, we demand that small businesses continue to bill companies and that they do not change the rules of the game during the tax year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-12-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anna Russian. The next keynote speaker was Mr Zoltán Vajda, on behalf of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-59	Well, thank you very much for the floor. First, before I tell you what I want to talk about, and I start my speech, because I think the camera only shows me, first of all, to those who might be watching this, I just want to inform them that there are 2-4-6-8-9-10 fidesz pardons, and it is KDNP, a total of 10 Fidesz and KDNP Members, who are here in Parliament, and the government is represented by a piece of Talai Secretary of State. So neither the government would like to be here, I see, and there are ten of the KDNP and the Fidesz Members here in total. It seems to me that it is the Members of the Fidesz and the KDNP who have heard the voices of opposition voters, which I disagree with, by the way, that we must boycott Parliament. For some reason, ten of the Fidesz and KDNP representatives are here. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How many MSZPs are there?]] From what I can see, four of them are pushing their phones, or they're definitely doing professional work on the computer. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: You've been sitting here with earphones!]] By the way, during this conversation, while my colleagues spoke to him, I saw two things that he was doing, pressing his phone, or talking to his colleagues between the benches. Mr. Tállai, I'll give you a pen, if you don't have a pen, note that you have something to answer for, because I'm going to give you some specific examples. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: You sat here with earphones! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-07-12-60	Congressman! [[Noise. Nacsa Lőrinc: You've been sitting here with headphones until now! The president's ringing the bell.]] Get to the point, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-61	I'm talking about the subject, Mr. President.
u2022-07-12-62	That's what you're talking about, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-63	The joke sounds like they know Uncle's flying champion is taking him up and I'm not going to do the exercises right now, and then he says I expected this, and I was expecting this, and I wasn't expecting that, and let me tell you exactly what the examples are. I feel a little the same way, too, because since I've been here in Parliament and since I've been a citizen since 2010, I can see that you are certainly not representing the people, certainly not the families, and certainly not my beloved country, so I expected this. I also expected you to consciously do so. So consciously they do not represent the people, consciously not the families, and consciously do not represent my beloved country, which is what I expected. But I didn't expect you to do this in a bold, knowingly, arrogant way, and thus attacking people, our nation and our family. So that's what I see in this bill. Because I do not want to talk about it right now, my colleagues have already told me how brazen it is that in a day and a half they want to cheat this Parliament on which you have recently promised the European Union that they will pass laws and leave time here with extensive social consultations. I'm not talking about you giving me three hours to submit the modifications; in your language, I'm saying four half-times for one football. Yeah, that's enough. They could've just given us half a time. What kind of thing is the third thing I'm not talking about, that Gergely Gulyás had no idea at a press conference at the end of last week that he was going to turn this into a law; I don't want to talk about it. I also don't want to talk about László Parragh, who, with our money, the people, the entrepreneurs' money, from the 5,000 forints, is supposed to represent the entrepreneurs, he's in total debauchery. Really, he's saying in a press release today that he doesn't have a job to qualify for political will; so I'm not talking about his total debauchery. I'm not even talking about how he could say that now, as I understand it, it was a bit powerful, says the one who, in principle, represents entrepreneurs, and, of course, the whole idea comes from him. I am in good faith with Mr Parragh, and I think that he is just a talking mouth, an avatar, to whom it was said that he would say so, but I would not like to talk about it either. You know, I'd like to talk about people, and I'm sorry if I'm a little angry, and I'm a little sweaty, because I was out in the square talking to people. I'll give you specific examples, but first, let me give you an example, in case you understand. If, say, there's water pouring in the stairwell at a condominium and they call the plumber, then first he has to ask, "Excuse me, this is a condominium or a private building." And if you tell him it's a condo, he'll ask where the water's coming from. I don't know, I'm the one who calls, runs down the stairs. You'll have to ask if it's from a common room or a private apartment. What difference does it make? Asks when the water is pouring. No, because if it's from a common room and I'm supposed to put the bill in the name of the house, then I'm not going to go out there and the plumber says it, and if it's from a private apartment and the bill's gonna be paid by a private person, I'm coming out. And how would we know that? Check it out and call me tomorrow. You create such situations with this bill. Where is it realistic for me to give another example of, say, an electric or plumber or even an accountant to bill only private individuals? Where's life like, say, a craftsman who makes bracelets, necklaces, earrings at home, and, say, has a web shop, sells to private people? If one person asks him for a company account on the webshop, then he has to return the kata and he's been pushed out? Where is this lifelike? ! Where's lifelike, let's say, the masseurs who go to health care, let's say, companies, they can close the blinds? You'll never have such a private practice. Mr. Tallai, would you like to take notes? These are specific examples! People whose products are, say, resellers, what will happen to them, will you be able to advise them on behalf of the government? How will the air conditioner or PC mechanics work, or will the whole mechanic usually work? Or a confectioner who sometimes takes out cake for events, what happens to him? And I could continue with the florists, the cleaners. I'm not talking about an activity, the taxi drivers. You're afraid of taxi drivers, so they've been removed. It's cowardice, of course, but the Fidesz are just soundmen, for some reason they're afraid of them. But if that's not good and Mr Tallai, I see now that the pen is already in your hands, then I'll give you names so you can answer them specifically. [[11.50]] I was just outside the protest where people protest against you! You, who are supposed to represent Hungarian people and Hungarian families, are consciously destroying them now. They're protesting against you! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You didn't vote! László Varju: The Margaret Bridge is already occupied! The president's ringing the bell.]] And I'm warning you, the Margaret Bridge is closed. People are protesting against you! Congressman Nacsa put his hands together and yelled at me that I voted in favour of this. My colleague Nacsa, I wasn't here in 12th, I didn't vote here for anything. Don't spin me, and don't say that, 'cause he's weak, okay? ! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We are self-indulgent in the room!]] Don't say that. I'm sorry I said it on the phone, I'm ashamed, I'm talking to my friends. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Mr. Tallai, I'll give you specific names. It's a good thing I only give you first names because they didn't take their last names. That's the country I live in. Sigismund is one example who asks you for advice on how to solve his existential crisis now, in the middle of the summer. He's a craftsman, he usually gives artisan items to private people, but sometimes he works for exhibitions. Mr Tállai, advise Sigismund on how to solve this existential problem in the middle of summer. I'm asking you to advise Klara, who told me that she runs a children's theatre or works at a children's theatre, I don't know if she's running it, I don't want to make a mistake. Children's theatres aren't essentially ordered by private people. Mr. Tallai, give me some advice for Klara, too, as to what she should do. I'm asking you to advise Dénes, who's a commercial filmmaker. It's basically very, very rare to do it for private individuals, basically making commercial films for a lot of companies. He basically doesn't have a private shop, Dénes said. I need your colleagues to advise Dénes on what he should do now, in the middle of the summer. I talked to Eve, too. I think Eve's name wasn't Eve, because she was very concerned, and she didn't want to say her first name, and she told me to be Eve then; because, you know, she doesn't dare even tell herself her first name. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I wouldn't tell you either!]] She's a radiologist doctor who said she spends about 60 percent of her time in a state hospital as a radiologist, and she does about 40 percent of her work for private clients as a private employee. What should he do? He said he was going abroad. So maybe you don't have to give him life advice because you're the reason he's leaving my beloved country. I've been talking to Mark. Mark was a bike messenger, and he was wearing a bike messenger uniform, and the box was on his back. What's Mark gonna do about you in August? A gentleman who didn't even want to say his first name, he's a bt. in the form of a general physician, and gave the following example. I couldn't verify that this was correct factually, but it seems to me that when a health insurance company has to issue an invoice, which is the health fund that only handles our private savings, he won't be able to issue it, because it's a company. It's very simple: the cashier handles the private savings of a private person, it just goes through it. What advice can you give the gentleman who didn't say his first name? Csaba is an IT developer, he works for a lot of companies, he hasn't worked in his life, because he's billing a lot of companies. He said he wouldn't ask you for advice anymore, because he's gonna be all black and he's gonna be doing this from now on. Is that what you wanted? Vera and István, they looked like a couple, two of them out in the square, forensics experts. They work for the state, they're assigned as forensics experts. Their client carries out the activities in the form of the state, cata. Secretary of State, right hand with the pen, you will advise Vera and István by judicial experts, working for the state what to do in August, in the middle of summer. You will advise Vera and István in your response. András asked me to say, when I said his first name, "András Full Fidesz." He came to me and said that Mr. Vajda, I'm a full fidesz, I'm András, I'm a civil engineer, I'm a housing association in my clients, in condominiums, and he even told me to say that he works in panel houses and housing sites. It's gonna be very simple: what you've done for $3 million, you're gonna do for $6 million in total. He doesn't know what to do. He said he didn't regret voting for you guys, but he's getting sick of you guys. Said Andrew the Full Fidesz, asking me to put him like this. Mira and Babett have a rare first name, a little worried about it, but they say they're gonna do it. Mira's a marketing guy, Babett's a photographer. They're gonna ask you for advice, okay? Finally, I would like to say László, he works with publishing, he is the client of many companies. Publication editing is not for private people, it's for many companies, and he doesn't know what to do right now. I'm sorry, I forgot, at the end, I wrote my writing a little nasty because I wrote it on my knee out here in the square, because there was no other way, Petra, he told me to tell you that he's 60 years old, working as an assistant director, and he's a car messenger. He's doing these two to support himself, both in the form of an individual enterprise. He awaits the advice of Fidesz and the government on what to do now in August. Finally, I would like to say that what I see in itself is outrageous, too, the way it was brought here, the way it is tricked, and the way it is consciously done against the Hungarian people by the government, the Fidesz, which lies that it is doing so on behalf of the people. And it's absurd that they force this on people by the middle of the summer and want it to come into force from 1 September. Someone asked me to tell you what happens when someone goes to a hairdresser after September 1st, gets his hair cut or his sideburns cut, and then tells me I want a VAT bill after all. Then what will the hairdresser say? I'm gonna finish it for now, I don't want to talk longer, because you guys aren't worth so much anyway, I'm gonna go out and talk to people, because they're the ones that are worth talking to. But what I see is that you guys are frauds, and you're starting out on your own. That's why they think everyone's cheating. Right now, they're cutting off the layers that don't cheat. What you're doing is terrible. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-12-64	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group.
u2022-07-12-65	Mr President, Thank you very much for not disavowing or taking, but giving me the floor. It's really comforting and I'm honored. I didn't plan it originally, but I do have a few words to say to Congressman Nacsa. I'm sorry he's not here because I'd much rather talk or fight face-to-face. That verbal spree he was allowed to run here was quite amazing. I suggest with great respect that before you give your tongue gas, you turn your brain into speed, because you can speak much more effectively, and you're talking less nonsense. I strongly object to the fact that, whether you personally called me "I," I consider this to be a particularly bad name for you and the left, or that you are blurring my political community with the left. That's impossible in every way. He knows that, by the way. On the other hand, he lied about what happened here in 2012. On the one hand, when you are given a continuous two-thirds mandate, it is very cynical to play the role of the opposition opposition. So you are constantly in that position as if you were in opposition to other political forces. Obviously, the reason I didn't vote or vote for Jobbik at the time, in 2012, is because it was mixed into a salad proposal that contained something that we couldn't accept. If this was the only thing that should have been voted purely, then obviously I too would have voted in favour of this very good proposal in itself. I am genuinely shocked by the fact that I have to tell you this face-to-face, as you are from Mátészalka, I have lived in Matthew Salka for 20 years. We are both from one of the most beautiful and poorest regions in the country, and you should know exactly as I know that for many ordinary people there, the cata meant a final rescue, a escape, a survival route, a last straw. And you have undertaken this extremely ungrateful task of reading with complete professional insubordination the arguments that someone has put on paper for you. Let's just leave it to the facts anyway. In this respect, too, Mr Varju has said inexactly, because they do not narrow down the possibilities here according to the scope of activity, it would have been one of the partial solutions, but rather, according to the source of revenue and the range of taxable persons, they do a drastic reduction and tightening up. [[12.00]] At the moment, it is a matter of income from individuals and entrepreneurs to a catalysmic entrepreneur, or of income from it until 31 August, and from 1 September only to individuals. As at present and until 31 August, the situation is that a person can be a self-employed, individual company, a partnership with a private member only, a public supply company with a private member alone, and a law firm can catalog as well, and from 1 September only self-employed individuals can provide services to private persons, or sell goods or products, except taxi drivers, this remains in an exception category. Obviously, I don't want to spoil the cab drivers' positions, at least they're getting away with this total weed-killing thing you're doing. On this basis, however, other exceptions or longer exceptions could have been found. It is quite cynical that you perform this by actually opening up a range of opportunities to the cataclysms, since from 12 million to 18 million the annual revenue limit will be increased and the tax rate will remain 50 thousand forints per month, i.e. 50 percent increase in the revenue limit, and there is no tax increase. This is very cynical because we know that as of 1 September, much less people will be able to use the cataclysmic reduced simple taxation than until 31 August. The fact that the timing is about, in football language, it looks like you're kicking a goal when your opponent can't answer it, it works in football, it can be another Eligible tactic, but here it's sly, on the one hand, and on the other hand it shows what you're trying to hide that the problem is huge. The effects of the economic crisis will already be more devastating and even more devastating than you would dare to make a partial confession. Under what right, on what basis do hundreds of thousands, if not millions of Hungarian families, be destroyed? At the moment, 460 thousand people are taxed according to the rules of the kata, of which there are 426,000 individual entrepreneurs, 108,000 side jobs. If we look only at this 108 thousand people, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, and on average, say, a catalysmic entrepreneur has four dependents, including the entrepreneur himself, then this is conveniently affecting between 400 and 500 thousand Hungarians, and I am talking only about cadavers in the side job. On what basis do you say, with effect from 1 September, that these people are no longer allowed to carry out various services or possibly trade in goods under a full-time employment relationship, a contract or a public service relationship? What's the basis for taking those tiny little coins away from people? Don't you have enough? Your NER companies don't have enough? How much would you be satisfied with? What political authority? With what election result, and with how much money, honourable pro-government representatives? What social organization is it that you, with respect for the exception, bathe in milk and butter, in honey, bulge in opportunities, others starve to death, or do you find a way to solve it? They either survive, or they don't, like they did in ancient times. The strong survive, the less powerful or less supported, and those who have no tailwind will die. On what basis are the entrepreneurs listed above told that the bazaar will be closed as of September 1st? And what future, what fate are they destined for? And do you know why it was timed like this? It was timed because if it had been used in the election campaign or at the beginning of the year, this proposal alone would certainly have killed two thirds of them. So this alone would have been enough if the voters had voted on 3 April knowing that they could say good-bye to the two thirds. This alone would have meant hundreds of thousands of votes lost to you on the national list, but many individual districts would have failed if every detail of reality had been revealed. Because if we start from the number of 460 thousand, this circle affects more than 1 million Hungarians. Instead of using a gardening term to do precision work and selective weeding, because there are no doubt, there may be abuse, I do not dispute that, neither does our country, instead of selective weeding, you do a total weeding of multiples of lethal doses. Instead of using a precise term that is now fashionable, to add a little color to this already intense debate, you'll be doing sniper work, you'll be completely blowing up the katás tax with total light and heavy artillery. Don't you have enough staff at the Ministry of Finance or any other department of commerce? Aren't there enough civil servants? Aren't there enough public servants? Not big enough for your hugely swollen clientele to do a thorough analysis job, and then can you tell me that this is the worst thing that exists? It seemed like they started smearing something, and then they got bored of it, and it was easier to kill the whole mess. Of course, they'll leave it to you formally. You know, it's like when someone doesn't formally want to be flunked by the examiner at the university exam, they're just gonna ask questions that I'm sure they won't be able to answer. So what was the solution? On the one hand, the system of checks, which was mentioned here earlier from one of the speakers before me, and on the other hand, the scope of activities should have been reviewed, for example, because, let's say, housing rentals do not necessarily require the possibility of granting a specific tax option. But I'm sure the worst way to go is that a catnip entrepreneur can't bill a company, can't bill a company, can't bill a government, can't bill a government, can't bill a government or state budget. On what grounds? What's the point? Why is it bad? Why are you against any legal principles? Why is it against economic interests for an entrepreneur to bill a public or municipal body or an economic company? This is also a very serious violation of the principle of freedom of business without bone. This does not comply with any constitutional principles. You were quite simply lazy to do meaningful work. They thought it would be the easiest. Tax revenue between HUF 150 and 250 billion came from this form of taxation each year. A fraction of it won't come in. The greatness of most things lies in its simplicity, the very reason why entrepreneurs have paid much more so far is because it was risk-free, it was simple, it had little administration, it was easy to see through, and what the entrepreneur could really focus on was what he was supposed to do to provide services or to produce goods and sell them. Entrepreneurs were not tied down by administrative and tax issues. They took the exact essence of it, neutered its essence out of this whole thing. From now on, several negative effects will start at the same time. One is that the black economy and the grey economy will be fattened, because, thanks to the good Lord, Hungarian people are extremely resourceful and, of course, no one is encouraged to blackout by the Mi Hungary Movement, but the fact that the Hungarian man is like water in terms of prosperity always finds his way, with the usual Hungarian ingenuity, thanks to which we even speak Hungarian here in this Chamber. Then there will be people who will go bankrupt, and then there will be people who will leave the country. Congratulations. It will certainly be a very good deal, and it will be very worth it that a good part of the remaining quality workforce will also go away, since you have now not only taken off the company, my fellow Members, or will soon, but also slowly take away the will of these people. Honestly, was that the biggest problem of the Hungarian economy? Is this where most of the gray or black money went down? There is one thing that no one has ever spoken of, neither the MPs of the government nor the representatives of the left. They pretend to give the false impression that a catnip taxpayer has paid 25,000, 50,000 or even 75,000 taxes a month and has not contributed anything else to the public burden. Everyone forgets that this is a big lie or a minimum inaccuracy, and it is not complete thinking, because not only did most, but all the katás entrepreneurs themselves use some services, bought some goods, maintained vehicles, paid 27 percent VAT on your world record, paid excise duty, paid product fees, paid other public charges. It is not true that the catalogs were free-living at any time, and they paid not only 25 thousand, 50 thousand or 75 thousand, but they paid all taxes and all public spaces for the above reasons, and probably contributed hundreds of thousands of HUF per month to the revenue side of the state budget. It was discussed here earlier that it would amount to an extra tax of at least 1 million forints. This will mean a lot more: if you sign up to a normal individual enterprise, you will announce yourself at minimum wage, if I'm wrong, you will have to pay about 120 thousand forints per month. That was 480,000 HUF in the last four months of the year, with 1 million HUF 440,000 projected for a year, and at that time one litre of petrol was not refueled, it did not cover any other business-related expenditure. This is going to be a much harder tax increase for former companies converting to normal individual business taxation than HUF 1 million a year. This will cost them a lot more than a million forints a year. And then there's another priority area that's going to be in a lot of trouble right now, the construction industry. It was also a popular form of taxation in the construction sector, because there were indeed a lot of small businesses in all the specialised industries that provided or worked for individuals, such as construction, renovation of family homes, and possibly for construction companies. [[12.10]] It is constitutionally offensive without bones to say that from now on, you can only take orders from private individuals and not accept them from companies. There's no reason for that, except with the argument system pulled out by her hair, you're all looking at this whole process, the whole case, in order to kill the kata, because one of the wise guys upstairs came up with this, and this very, very bad order, he gave a very wrong order. It is also constitutionally offensive that this will be introduced during the year, and provide a short period of six weeks of preparation for this to be done by the katás entrepreneurs. So far, the simplicity of the kata has demonstrated that the less is the more tax and the lower tax, the simple regulation, has always resulted in tax revenues that are significantly higher than expectations. Now, what you've achieved is that with a much more complicated regulation, much less revenue will come to the hands of the state than you think. They will have the opposite effect, because a long time ago if they didn't believe me or believe our country, believe the protesters, a long time ago there has been an example of people taking such spontaneous, flashmobic action on the streets, in the middle of the summer, against a harsh measure. This shows the proper immune response and immune function of society, because they think that without bone, you can do anything to people, referring to the results of April 3, citing the low-level municipal election results, believe me, that's pretty harsh. And I'm sure there's been a number of signals coming or coming from your acquaintances in the last day that it's extremely impertinent to do so in this form. So we keep the proposals that we made yesterday. On the one hand, we must not exclude from the municipal, public and economic corporate sectors Katás entrepreneurs, we must keep the clack in the side jobs because it is also as unconstitutional as the many provisions of this proposal mentioned above, and in order to save the construction sector, you should rethink this basically. After all, when last year the Prime Minister closed 1100 billion forints between the two festivals, last night's news that another 415 billion forints had been blocked, this is widespread in construction investments. If the situation of construction in an increasingly difficult situation, which will also fall away from private investment in the next one or two years, this is guaranteed to make it more difficult to force smaller subcontractors into much more costly forms, then it is certain that they will achieve the opposite of what they would like. So it seems far from the point of view that it was invented in Budapest's study rooms, offices, by completely lifeless people who have never been entrepreneurs in life for a minute, who have no idea what it is like to be an entrepreneur, or even envy entrepreneurs, and it was invented by respected government representatives who consider the vast majority of Hungarian entrepreneurs either a milk cow or a bird or a criminal. I think that none should be sought among entrepreneurs, and I would like to ask myself, in the strongest possible way, as President of the Committee on Enterprise Development, on behalf of all honest Hungarian entrepreneurs. Since this is an unmanageable proposal in this form, with great respect as Deputy Head of the Group of Mi Hazan, I suggest that we withdraw as it is, and run back to it again, so perhaps some compromise, normal proposal is acceptable, and perhaps some normal proposal can come out of it, because in this form it is a huge shame, unsuitable, and otherwise it will come back to you, because it will be visible very soon on its popularity indicators. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-12-66	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2022-07-12-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I am in an easy position, because the speakers before me have already made almost all the important arguments, so I do not need to repeat them and I do not need to repeat them. Anyway, there's an interesting lesson to learn from today's experience, because I've always thought that I could pretty much understand why Fidesz is doing what. I did not agree with their goals, but I understood why they were doing something because it was in their interest, and therefore they would be strengthened and enriched, or their circles would be richer, and they could make political capital out of it even if it was not good in the long run, or if it wasn't really moral. But now, at this moment, I am puzzled, because I think that Fidesz has tabled a bill that is particularly harmful not only for the country, because it is not usually watched, but also for the Fidesz Party itself and the government. This is because, in principle, the purpose of the whole thing is to whiten the economy, to make it simple taxation, to increase revenue, to prevent companies from playing it out, but if we look at it and the people who spoke before me have already given us examples, these goals will not be met at all. After all, in this strict regulation, the economy will not become white; on the contrary, it will be more so that people go to the grey economy, the black economy; more and more people will leave the legal sphere, go abroad, and there will be such things. And obviously there will be no increase in revenue, nor any increase in revenue, because despite trying to increase the tax rate by expelling businesses from the Katács circle and moving them towards flat-rate taxation, the tax base will in fact fall significantly, and consequently the tax revenue will not increase, but rather decrease. At the same time, the government must also face the fact that we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who are very strongly and very seriously affected by this. These hundreds of thousands of people are now politically appreciating what happened here in the elections on 3 April and what the government has promised and what it will accomplish. The results of this can already be seen; I too, before I came here, was in the square, and there were more than a thousand people in the square. Now the latest news is that thousands of people are out on the street now, and Margaret Bridge has been taken, so there is a visible and tangible dissatisfaction between people and small entrepreneurs. Those who have felt that they can find a livelihood here today, in Hungary, now it seems that they can't. Of course, it should not be forgotten that Fidesz was once again following the same old tactic, which was already followed by the Government, not the amendment of the law, but by a representative in order not to have to go through the entire bill at the government secretary-general's meeting, so that it would not be necessary to coordinate with the representative organisations, so that it can be pushed down in a rapid manner in Parliament within a day or two, so that it can be pushed down people's throats, trusting that this speed will prevent people at all to perceive or see what has happened to them and to try to organize and do anything or to exert pressure on them, but it does not seem to be possible at all, because the upset is getting stronger and more elementary. At the time, I had not yet talked about the fact that while this process is being conducted, they will forget their own promises, the promise that they promised not so long ago, a few days ago to the European Union for additional resources, that there will be a proper social consultation on the legislative proposals next, so that they will allow a sufficient amount of time for stakeholders to prepare for changes and changes, but none of this has happened at all. [[12.20]] And obviously, no impact studies were carried out, so that it could be clearly seen how this 450-470 thousand involved would be affected by this whole transaction. So, in fact, a professional debate cannot take place here, even though we should now have a professional debate on what part of the current cata-regulation obviously has problems that should have been amended. So a kind of fine-tuning was obviously necessary. However, this is not happening at all. On the government side, we heard Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa talking about the past, talking about what happened in 2006, 2010, 2012 and earlier years, in 2002. He mentioned examples when there was no consultation during the Gyurcsány government, and from this he concluded that there was no need to go through with this discussion at the time. I think that this could be a completely wrong, very bad example, because if a political force has made a mistake in the past, it cannot give those on the government now the right to make the same mistake or the same type of mistakes. I'm a villager, and when I was a kid, I was told at home that I was told that if the neighbor's daughter died, as the old saying used to be, some people knew what that meant. [[Defiance.]] That doesn't give us the right to have our daughter do the same, or our daughter can do the same. Well, I think that this principle might be worth enforcing to us. So the fact that people have done wrong in the past cannot excuse us from doing the same. So I think that we need to be on sound moral ground, even if not everyone is on it, because otherwise it is not worth starting on these matters. And I say on behalf of the Dialogue that, of course, we absolutely cannot accept this bill. In fact, we would suggest to the government and the governing party, in their own interest, that they withdraw this bill without delay and begin a social debate on this issue, a proper consultation with the representatives of interest groups, and leave sufficient time for preparation, and at some point from the beginning of next year, try to introduce a new regulation. I think that this would be the best thing for all of us, and that would serve the common good, which could serve it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-07-12-68	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Mellar. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2022-07-12-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Another lie, another lie, another lie. It's a lie-filled justification for the amendment of the law, and it's a national exposé full of lies. Shocking! But I think that we should start at the beginning, because the objective way to interpret everything is to look at the circumstances by looking at the context of a proposal. Dear House, I think that Fidesz's economic policy, if someone hasn't been clear so far, must have become indisputably clear today. What is Fidesz's economic policy about? It is about enforcing the interests of multinational companies at any cost and under all circumstances, as opposed to the fundamental interests of Hungarian society. We can remember, because it happened yesterday, and the last period was loud because the Fidesz-KDNP association fought fire and iron against the minimum tax on multinational companies, against the tax that, by the way, 300 billion is not 300 million, 300 billion! refers to multinational companies with consolidated income, i.e. which are present in several countries. They therefore engage in all conflicts: with the European Union, with the European Commission, with the United States, it does not matter! It doesn't matter, because there's no reason and there's not enough power to stop Fidesz from pursuing the interests of multinational companies. And it's worth seeing that, compared to this, we have a bill here that would practically drown the smallest economic seeds in the ashes. Amazing! But let's start with the fact that it was said in the author's exposé that the principle of proportionate public burdens was violated. Mr. Secretary of State said that expression. Interestingly, Mr Secretary of State did not feel that the principle of proportionate public burden-sharing was violated when it came to multinational companies. And just to remind you, it has been said many times in this House in the last month and a half that MOL's post-tax profits are higher than its pre-tax profits. This may result in more aid from the State than their total tax liability. But we also know that Richter, which is another multinational company, is paying half a flat in Pest in the form of corporate tax after its profits of over 140 billion. This represents a tax rate of 0.03 per cent. But it's not much better if we think of Audi, who also shows a corporate tax rate of less than 1 percent. So I would just like to prove with this number line that the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance is on the side of multinational companies with the full chest width and clearly, against Hungarian society, against the smallest economic entities, who are, in fact, families and micro-entrepreneurs. Compared to this, I think it is worth talking about the other lies; also about the other lies, which, of course, was about that, and that was again said in your exposé by the Secretary of State, that social and professional consultations were held during the period before the submission of the bill. I would like to see the documentation of this social and professional consultation, because I cannot believe that this has happened on the one hand. On the other hand, I would like to see the accounting expert who said with complete confidence, full faith and full confidence in his profession that during the year a tax law can be amended in this way, with such a deadline. I'd like to see it. I understand that László Parragh, your errand man, supported or supported this proposal, but I think he did this easily with a salary of HUF 5 million. People whose fate we decide with this amendment of the law do not earn that much. I never thought that I would be involved in the debate of a tax law here at the National Assembly, which gives taxable persons a virtually six weeks of preparation time to adapt to the new rules, to develop a new strategy, to find a new accountant, and to have a long list of what it takes to make such a large change. It is worth considering: until this session is expected to end on 19 July, and you will all be on holiday, Katács entrepreneurs will have the task of looking for an accountant, creating an economic strategy, rethinking their full operation. [[12.30]] The minimum of this would have been to change such a law with an anniversary, but I think that it would not be the right direction in substance. It's just a blur on the cake that, by the way, you basically consider taxi drivers as an exception, and it's not for economic reasons, but you're terrified of another cabbike. But I would like to reassure this House that it can also create a cataclysmic blockade, and if society has a functioning immune system and I believe that there is, then there will be a catatonic blockade, because there will be no way to do what you do any longer. The fact that you are accusing about half a million people of tax evasion is completely unworthy, and compared to that, I think that nothing else will happen if this bill is adopted but that the black economy will regain its strength and start to spread again. This cannot be in the interests of any of us, neither the Hungarian economy nor the Hungarian society. And how hasty they were, how inconsiderate the whole legislative process was, it perfectly proves that the Legislative Committee had to produce a relatively large package of amendments just because there were language problems and grammatical errors in the original bill. You are referring to the protection of Katács by making life impossible for Katács entrepreneurs. I think that, listening to the pro-government arguments that have been made, you have not yet met a catalysmic entrepreneur in real life, because if, and if, as a form of taxation that conceals employment, you have to note that, by removing companies from the potential partners, you do not at the very least solve the problem that I do not think exists or which they are talking about to a very small extent. (László Földi in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. István Tiba.) At the moment, this means that a catnip entrepreneur can no longer provide group services, for example, to a company or to a condominium. You make it impossible for the types of businesses that do not operate as a full-time job, but they appear as additional earnings in addition to low disability pensions or pensions. Whichever alternative I consider, which could be used to replace the cat, each means a multiple extra tax burden, which means that it can be denied, but it is part of a austerity package; so that, by the way, they are very careful that the austerity package only affects individuals, small businesses, and by chance does not touch multinational companies, for example, is what I was talking about. I think that you have launched an attack on the intellectual liberal professions, because this social class is thinking, and is more involved in public opinion or commentation than the national average. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that the preparation time you consider sufficient, which, if I count it well, is seven or six weeks after, we are talking about virtually a month and a half, can give a similar example anywhere in the world, that decisions of this magnitude would have been taken on such short notice. It is a huge question that during the summer holidays, you will find an otherwise given katás entrepreneurial partner, for example, for accounting purposes, an accountant. I definitely don't think so. I think that you are living in some strange, distorted world, which does not, at the very least, meet the real world, and, ultimately, this proposal is a one-on-one and perfectly proof that you now clearly have one goal in the context of austerity: to squeeze as much money out of ordinary people as possible. In conclusion, I can say that the fair one, I think, would be if you would withdraw this amendment, because it's something quite bloody, that you don't want to pass this law in 48 hours. Perform a fair, wide-ranging, social and professional consultation, and, yes, I would like those accounting experts who believe that a month and a half months of tax legislation could be amended to take this type of opinion with their name. I think this is all against constitutionality, predictability and accounting principles. I think that if anyone who has read the Accounting Act and knows the accounting principles in the Ministry of Finance for example, can support the submission of such an amendment, the acceptance of such an amendment, that is a very big problem, and I think it is not by chance that the Minister of Finance did not think that he should be personally involved in this debate. [[András Tállai: He is in Brussels.]] I think, fellow Members, that there is only one way in which, if you want to act fairly, to withdraw this bill, to restart social and professional consultation from the foundations, and then, after consultation, to implement a law that goes through the appropriate and appropriate legislative process, which has time to prepare for, both pro-government and opposition representatives. In this case, I think that we could find a solution that is acceptable to everyone, the government and the Katás entrepreneurs. Until this happens, this is nothing more than a declaration of war for small and micro-enterprises, and this is unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Jobbik, MSZP, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-07-12-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Several of our fellow Members have indicated that they wish to speak in the remaining timeframes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, DK.
u2022-07-12-71	Dear Parliament, I've been a law-abiding citizen my whole life. I believed that the laws were made by the Parliament to improve and make life easier for the Hungarian people. 20-22 years ago, just in the time of the first government, as an official of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, I was involved in the preparation of a number of laws. We reviewed the various draft laws together with experts with different experience and expertise, their justifications, backgrounds, impact assessments, before the parliamentary referral. The point and the result of this preparatory work was that there were many problems and consequences that had not been considered by the preparatory staff of the drafts. [[12.40]] Yesterday's bill, which is due to be put to the final vote this afternoon, actually rocked this law-abitus, and I was shaken by the belief that the laws were intended to improve the functioning of the country, its citizens and Hungarian businesses. I would just like to draw attention to one aspect. According to the anti-catalytic bill, only taxi drivers will be entitled to issue invoices to non-individuals. The authors of the proposal forgot about Hungarian employers, Hungarian small businesses. According to the Labour Code, all workers, employees and employees must be subject to occupational health checks before and at appropriate intervals, hazards related to the functioning of the workplace, conditions that endanger workers should be identified, reduced and, where possible, eliminated. This activity is carried out by the operating doctors, most of whom are self-employed in addition to their general medical practice, most often as a cataclysmic activity. GP practices are funded by NEAK, and the business activity is funded by employers on the basis of an invoice. Audi, Mercedes, BKV, employers with thousands of employees can do so either by employing major occupational doctors or by concluding contracts with private healthcare companies with several professionals, but small businesses with 5-10-15-20 employees cannot do so. They usually contract with a local general physician, the occupational health care of an employee usually costs 5-10 thousand forints per year, this is how much it costs businesses, and this is the extra income of the entrepreneur's general physician. In addition, this revenue is usually used by GPs to develop and operate their own GP practice. For example, in recent years, I have paid the second nurse whose salary is not financed by NEAK. Thus, general practitioners do not contract with individuals, employees, but with employers, small entrepreneurs, companies. If this option is removed for general practitioners, this will certainly be a significant additional burden for small rural businesses. Are you sure that's what the author wanted?
u2022-07-12-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Komáromi. The next speaker is Congressman István Apáti, Mi Hazank.
u2022-07-12-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is also a few other points to be made here, in addition to what has just been said. You think that the timing is positive because, in view of the summer, there will be no resistance, but the resistance has already been established, you have to look at Kossuth Square and the Margaret Bridge, and people will soon forget, and since you think they are neither interested nor affected by it, six weeks is enough for a change and transition of this size. However, there are other aspects of timing, honourable MPs, and in this respect they have made the worst possible decision. Because we are not really over a pandemic that replaces a world war, we have a very devastating war next door, and we have to face all the symptoms of the global economic crisis. Exactly at a time like this, we should not harm at least 450 000 entrepreneurs who were able to ensure their livelihoods without any particular help. And since, as we have just said, they have bought products and services from elsewhere, they have worked as part of a chain, they have also helped others to make a living, so their indirect impact and the number of indirect actors are probably well over 450 thousand, not to mention the number of families in question; this means a mass of 1.5 to 2 million. In such a situation, it is just necessary to facilitate the livelihood of entrepreneurs, at least to help them by not hurting them. Compared to this, one of the wise guys, for some reason, came up with the idea that the potential abuse of ditchings is the biggest problem, and then they're gonna go for it with a pair of feet. The problem is, they didn't think it through at all, not even with approximate accuracy, let alone precise. In your opinion, the solution is that most of the catapults will enter into full-time employment or start in another form of enterprise, because then they will pay much more revenue into the state register. They just don't think about the opposite extreme, they don't look at the other side of the coin. A number of activities, activities of a service nature, which were provided by a Katás until 31 August to, say, a local government, an organisational unit of a local government or a public body, have cost much less to the municipality or the State, and the nature of the service has also resulted in it being sufficient to conclude a business contract. So it was a symbiote life form, it was good for the entrepreneur, it was good for the ordering state or the local government, because, if it were the case, it meant an activity that would have cost much more, it would have cost the municipality multiples if it had solved that question in an employment relationship. It was solved at a much cheaper and public satisfaction through catnip entrepreneurs. They're making this virtually impossible. So it turns out that it's going to cost a lot more, it's going to cost a lot more if there's any more after that, who's going to be able to provide certain activities. So this was an exaggeration, the most important aspects of which were ignored in the way it is. What will generate more revenue and what will become less revenue should have been examined much more thoroughly. I'm pretty sure there's gonna be a lot less revenue coming in this way. And those who are now being destroyed will not conclude mass contracts, not even because of the Hungarian virtus, but also because of the fact that they are not in the spirit of it, and you know what? they do well, but they will find the still legitimate solutions that you are forcing them to survive in again. For a long time, they have argued over the last few weeks, feeding everyone here, including the opposition parties, that the pension of Katás entrepreneurs will be very low, which is also true, so it is a real statement in itself, and that is why the rules need to be reviewed. We do not see a trace of this in this proposal. There is not even a small sign that the catatonic entrepreneur, close to the pension, could pay a higher tax rate on a voluntary basis, either by choosing a specific form of self-care, in order to plan ahead and receive a higher pension when that time comes. Not to mention the fact that you lied to everyone about at least 100,000 micro-enterprises remaining in the restricted area. A few weeks ago, I submitted an interpellation on this subject, and the surprising answer was that at least 100,000 businesses remained protected. Then the very important little details turned out that, of course, up to 1500 cubic metres of annual gas consumption, up to 4000 or 5000 kilowatt hours of annual electricity consumption, which virtually no one will fit into. In English, you're blowing up market electricity and gas prices on entrepreneurs, plus they're attacking the cataclysms in the back. When these entrepreneurs are put out of the circle in Rezsvédett, or are about to be moved to the circle where they will surely have to pay a very high fee, they will create a set of conditions that would execute these, to be honest, not micro-, but if there were such a term, it would be possible to say that nano-enterprises, the smallest, the most defenceless, the least capitalists. It will be pushed to the entrepreneurial sector, if at all possible, where there will certainly be heavy charges to pay. I have received electoral letters in which entrepreneurs write that after 30 September they can enter into contracts with a gas price of HUF 875 plus VAT per cubic metre even if their business headquarters and their permanent residence are placed at the same address. They write to me about a gross gas price of 1100 forints per cubic meter, reliable and credible people, and they will be pushed into this circle by pushing them into even greater depths. We have not heard any analysis here, therefore, I would be very curious to hear from the Secretary of State's reply that they have some approximate estimates, concepts, ideas, calculations of what you are saying with so much heat, that there is a great deal of abuse, how much you think this could mean loss of revenue, let's say, in billions. And on what basis was this calculated, what are these estimates based on? [[12.50]] What we are seeing here, in a biological way, fellow Members, is that, in the vast majority of cases, a symbiote life form is replaced by a parasite life form. In this case, the parasite is the state that tries to take all its resources away from the smallest, the most defenseless, who now decided to take control of their own fate in a mass, spontaneous fashion, and try to do whatever it takes to prevent this outrage, even by exerting pressure on the streets. We are sure here in the Mi Hungary faction that Katás entrepreneurs are not the real problem with the Hungarian economy. We are confident that much more effective solutions could have been chosen. If you want to go into business pockets at all costs, do so at the large NER construction companies, be kind, which will be given a high level of political protection and increased protection. Or if you want to take money from entrepreneurs, take away the casinos you've already mentioned, Mr. Secretary of State, please join the NAV online system. If the beautician Szamosbecs needs to be connected to the online system of the NAV, because it is very important for him to see every penny of his money, then also turn the NER casinos that produce hundreds of billions of forints of gray and black money, if there is a defence minister's involvement or any involvement, into the online system of the NAV. I'm willing to bet whatever it is that they could raise a lot more money from casinos, if they could finally see how much money is going on there, if they were to levy a decent special tax, say, on casinos and vaccine manufacturers, they would be able to collect multiples of that amount for public satisfaction, and they would still survive, and they would still not be executed, as they could be achieved by destroying the katás entrepreneurs. They would not take more than a multiple of that, but, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately well aware of the significantly more favourable reproductive chances of a stronger dog. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-07-12-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP.
u2022-07-12-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think it is worth putting this whole issue in a slightly broader context, what is happening to small entrepreneurs, to small taxpayers. It is very symbolic what the Secretary of State has said here, to Antal Csárdi's statement, where the Minister is in Brussels. I suspect that Minister Varga in Brussels, for example, will be lobbying against the global minimum tax, protecting large capital, multinational companies, while his Secretary of State, Tállai Secretary of State, is working here to eliminate former benefits from the system, making it more difficult for taxpayers to be in a worse position, to be able to collect more from them by the state. These two are, by the way, pointing in the same direction, and this direction is how Fidesz imagines the chariot of this country, in which direction I would like to push it. It's a clear choice of strategy, not a coincidence, what's happening. What is happening here is quite simply that the Hungarian government has made an alliance with a Western, typically German centre capital at government level, these large car factories, multinational companies, assembly plants. They are trying to base the competitiveness of this country on what has been said several times here in the debate, that we are competitive by providing tax havens to large companies, they are barely taxing, I say with government support, I say in all other quotes, with job-creating subsidies, and they base this country's ability to create jobs, keep jobs, what is happening in the automotive industry and in the supply industry. Notice how this is a vulnerable and dependent situation, because we depend on the capital of the Western centre, the large German car companies, and obviously as these car companies go down, because the market is changing, because there is a petrol crisis, and the rest of the Hungarian economy is going downhill, unfortunately very soon. Otherwise, there would be another way, a completely different strategic path, when a country says to invent itself, stands on its own feet, based on its own resources. Yes, this would require small and medium-sized enterprises, such as their maximum support, such as a green turn, strengthening the green economy, which I spoke about in my speech to the agenda, among other things. National insulation programme could create tens of thousands of additional jobs on an annual basis, which would serve both green and sustainability. There are many other green solutions that do not expect the solution from large companies, but, once again, based on small, small and medium-sized enterprises. In itself, the small company, the SME, is a value, especially from a green point of view, because everything that is small is beautiful, it needs to be supported, it is effective, it is green, because it consumes less energy, it produces for local markets, it provides for local markets, it helps communities. The main goal of large companies is to siphon profits from here, and once again, to force this country into an economic structure, assisted by the Hungarian government, which lowers down, lowers wages and reduces labour law guarantees to a great extent. Of course, support for small and medium-sized enterprises would require a very, very powerful education system, strengthening health care and strengthening culture, when the resources of these are significantly and decisively increased. Obviously, this model would point in a direction where we are not looking for redemption from abroad, not from foreign capital, but from job creation, but from our own people, from our own communities, from our own SME sector, we are trying to invent this country, stand on our own feet and grow stronger. That's not what's happening right now. I have another final question for the Secretary of State. What chapter of the electoral programme and the government programme does this whole catalysm read? I tried to find this, but I couldn't find it; obviously they had already anticipated this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of LMP, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-07-12-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr István Hiller, MSZP.
u2022-07-12-77	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! I would like to draw attention to a specific part or part of this amendment, to precisely those of our peers, who are most likely to be liked, respected, respected and helped by all of us. I would like to talk about Hungarian culture, precisely about our artists, actors, performers and filmmakers. People who, no matter which political community they belong to, are liked in the vast majority of cases as a Hungarian-speaking person. Loving may be a critical form, we like one movie, we don't like the other, but we recognize artistic performance. Similarly, one of us goes to such a concert, the other of us listens to music, but a good person loves music. And the performer who makes a living using his talent for this, in this sense not only to the community, but also to the audience, to all of us, to you, to us, to our family members, to our acquaintances and to Hungarians unknown to us, to please him, to please him, we are all proud when they reward their talent. It is a great thing when at an international film festival a Hungarian film, its director, its actor and its actor receives recognition, we all applaud in ourselves or here, standing together in the National Assembly. It is also great when, as a result of a teacher's work, a student in private lessons prepared with his talent to bring glory to this country in an international student Olympics. The Secretary of State and Minister says with his breasts swollen, shows how great the result is. I would also like to talk about those we don't know, but without their work, those whom we respect, respect and love cannot appear before us. A concert is not just about people who work on stage, they show their talent on stage, and we applaud them. An army of people working behind the stage, without their technical knowledge, the voice of a singer with the best voice wouldn't get to a crowd of thousands of people. [[13.00]] (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And there's something else. Although I know that all of us, representatives and non-members have suffered psychologically over the past two years, we have had a period, or at least hope that we are beyond that which has torn every man in this country and around the world, let us say that those who live from their talents, arts, during the period of the pandemic could not and could not obtain any income, as there was no place to perform, the theatres were closed, films were not filmed, there were no concerts, we could not enjoy Hungarian light music or even legendary performers in the field of classical music. These people, and many of them here, are protesting a few hundred meters from us. The remarkable thing is that people protest because they want to pay taxes, they happen to want to pay taxes fairly, they carry signs that I'm not a fraud, I want to pay taxes. I don't think they have any political ambitions, but they simply represent their interests in a bill, amendment, that you'll be rolling around in 24 hours. They believe that their decent work and talent will be expressed and that they will serve this audience and community, so that if they are honest after their work, in this form, which they have created, they will tax in the original form of the kata. The reason why Hungarian history doesn't abound once again is that people go to protests to pay decent taxes. To reject this is to be considered both financially and financially. I ask you, while I know what the so-called faction discipline requires of you: the faction discipline requires you, although only a few are here, I can obviously tell you, and through you, to your fellows in the pro-government ranks, I understand exactly what party politics and, within this faction discipline mean in the functioning of Parliament. For the record, it doesn't hurt to think sometimes. 24 hours is not enough. And those people who are now spontaneous, for their own good and for the sake of their peers, who want to pay tribute... I think that this bill, this amendment, should be withdrawn, think about what it means even morally, that people want to pay decent taxes and do not want to fall for this poor and sudden amendment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-07-12-78	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, The next speaker, Mr Boglarka, from the Fidesz Group, spoke again. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I am following the debate, there are things here that say things that are similar to a fraction of reality, or even a fraction, and I think it is important to point out that many of you have been able to represent the Hungarian people, Hungarian voters in Parliament before 2010, including my fellow Member István Apáti, who has been here since 2010, and who is able to express his opinion not only outside Parliament but also within Parliament regarding the people living in the area of Mátészalka and its region, it is not by chance that the people living in the region of Mátészalka have expressed their views on your activities, and you have gained 9.15 percent in this region during the elections. You've even been beaten by more than twice as many votes who have been accused of sexual crime in Jobbik's ranks. If I were you, I would be looking for allies to represent the people of Matthew Salka and its region, and I would be very happy to be your ally in the past and in the future, whether in Cluj or in Beregszász or in Budapest. [[Sic!]] And the voters made a very good decision to vote in favour of Mr Sándor Kovács in overwhelming majority. And while I do not think that we should be the ones to draw up tax advice here, I would certainly like to point out to you whether it is the kiva or the specific flat-rate tax, I believe that these too can provide and provide an appropriate opportunity. And I am not surprised that, if you take it less into account, I do not say that you are either interested, but I can say that, on the basis of what has been said, you are less aware of the fact that employers are clearly directing workers in a direction that is expected to reduce their pension benefits significantly. The aim of this bill is, among other things, to avoid this, and what they will enjoy when they retire. And I am not surprised because there were many of you who supported the abolition of the 13th month pension, supported the fact that pensioners would not receive the 13th month pension; thanks to the Fidesz government, pensioners would get it back again, even if we were fighting war inflation, even if economic difficulties were affecting us, we could not exclude ourselves from the effects of these. On behalf of the DK representative, it has been said that this will bring the families to ruins. I know you know exactly what it is that destroys families. I mean, when Ferenc Gyurcsány was on the steering wheel, when Ferenc Gyurcsány was steering, what happened? Families with one and two children have been deprived of family tax benefits, families with three children's family tax benefits have been reduced by 60 percent, and home-building benefits have been withdrawn, so you really know what it is that ruins families, and it is no accident that most Hungarians voted as such in April. And I understand that on behalf of Jobbik, Dániel Z. Kárpát is not trying to exclude himself from the consequences of the decisions made earlier by DK and Ferenc Gyurcsány, but I would like to say with respect that it is you and you who have decided to sell with Ferenc Gyurcsány, who started with Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferenc Gyurcsány's party during the elections. [[Sándor Szabó: Talk about Kata! It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] And you're the ones who got together with this left. So I think that you should have given your opinion on this before. It is no coincidence that the Jobbik faction has now not been able to issue any single individual candidate after the April elections. So on this basis, I would like to respectfully ask you to support the taxpayers, the actual taxpayers, and to support the ability of the taxpayers to continue to choose the kata, which is included in the bill, up to a threshold of HUF 18 million. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from the ruling parties: Bravo! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-80	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Ferenc Dávid. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-81	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Here, opposition representatives have made all possible professional arguments, and I would therefore point out not to the professional arguments, but to the procedure. I hope that the congresswoman is also aware that the Competition and Government Permanent Consultation Forum is in place in Hungary, a tripartite stakeholder forum: employers' associations, trade unions and the Hungarian government. I was uncertain that this forum had been discussed, so I called the number one leaders of the national large employers' associations and called the number one leaders of the major trade union Confederations to make sure that I was not mistaken. Now, this bill, of course, in any form, is not what I am talking about last night, nor has it been discussed in any form with the interested parties, to whom this measure strikes on the back. I do not think that the special interests of employers' associations should be accepted. I do not think that it is absolutely necessary to accept the interests of workers. But let alone you do not accept or listen to the employers' associations, and you have not listened to the union representatives. They did the same, by the way, according to Parliament's rules of play. I understand you're sitting in front of me with two lines of the chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, and I'm vice president of the Economic Commission, a law of this magnitude, a law of this magnitude, the two, how do I put it? I can tell you, they're not even gonna put you on a professional committee, and the conversation, the debate that we're about to have here, it's been neglected by you at committee level, and it's been blown away because you wanted to go through it quickly. [[13.10]] I consider this extremely important. And then on the other side of this: after you completely excluded employers' representatives and employees' representatives, you turned to the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. To the Chamber of Commerce we've known for 20 years that it's not for the interests of entrepreneurs. I feel free to say: today in Hungary, entrepreneurs do not have a chamber, but the president of the Chamber has a chamber, his own chamber. This chamber is not attractive, this chamber blindly executes everything, this chamber comes up with this and supports this proposal, and this morning, slylyly says that the government has pushed it too far. So I think that there is a problem here not only with the procedure, but also with you involving actors who are openly opposed to small entrepreneurs on this issue. I would add that László Parragh, in addition to the fact that he has now assassinated small business operators, is also a very painful way for me to derail the entire Hungarian chamber system. Because I also called chamber leaders today, and county chamber presidents said that it was outrageous that such a bill could come in with the support of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. And you knew this perfectly well, and yet such an anti-business move and such a bill was tabled. Now I'd just like to say a few little colorful things. Several of my fellow Members have said that they do not understand why taxi drivers have left the circle. I would like to inform my fellow Members that many thought that it was because they were afraid of taxi drivers. No, not because the president of one of the largest taxi companies in Budapest is the president of the Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry. He's not a micro-contractor, he's a big contractor. If you don't know his name, look at the website of the Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and then everyone will know why this doesn't apply to taxi drivers. The following was: they thought that this matter, and several of my fellow Members here said it, Mr Apáti also said, Mr Csárdi also said that practicing entrepreneurs said that it would push the bicycle and the Hungarian small business community completely towards the black economy. So now you're targeting a step that's going to increase the black-job and the black-job commitment. Unfortunately, my fellow Member Nacsa is not here now, because he read on my nose that VOSZ did not speak in 2013; then I would like to say to Mrs VOSZ that the National Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers of course supported the introduction of the cat in 2013, but I do not understand why, after ten years, you, who created this, now want to eradicate it. Because it's not a reasonable correction! Here it has been said in a comment that it is important to improve social security and pension provision. I would like to ask: by raising the turnover limit to HUF 18 million, how will the provision of future pensioners and future patients improve? You have done nothing for this, so it is a pity to refer to it. To conclude: I may not like what I have to say, here too, the two entrepreneurial representatives said that those who have written this legislation have never seen a business in their lives and have not met an entrepreneur in their lives. I was once the Secretary-General of VOSZ for 12 years, and I confirm my fellow Members: those who put this on paper did not see any business in their lives, and do you know how I can prove it? Employees have a spirit that if they don't like something, they either demonstrate, or strike, or sabotage the job, or they don't go to work or quit. Entrepreneurs aren't like that. Entrepreneurs don't go out on the street. Entrepreneurs usually try to solve it, as Congressman Apáti said, trying to make things smart. Now, my colleagues and I are looking at it on the phones, and these entrepreneurs, I say once again, are not workers, they are not strikers, they have invaded Kossuth Square, they have gone to Elizabeth Bridge, and they have also closed the Margaret Bridge, and they have organized themselves, they have not been organized by the entrepreneurial associations, they have organized it themselves. Well, if it is not credible to you that this measure, if the Hungarian entrepreneurial community spontaneously closes two bridges and invades a space, and if you do not draw the conclusion that this legislation must be withdrawn immediately, then I will lower my voice: this legislation must be withdrawn immediately, because it will cause incredible damage to the Hungarian economy. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-07-12-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. There is no question of patience here as long as there is a time frame, Congressman, you can speak naturally. The next speaker was Mr Lóránt Keresztes from the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I think we all feel that it is not the patience of Members, but the patience of Hungarian people, Hungarian small entrepreneurs, that is why perhaps my fellow Member has referred to this. I'd like to speak to the pro-government speakers. I'm sorry. I'd like to speak to the lead speakers. I'm sorry, it's right here in the room. [[Illés Boglárka talks with Zsolt Láng.]] So I would like to speak to the lead speaker of Fidesz and KDNP, Elijah Boglárka and Lőrinc Nacsa, and I would like to ask them a question. We have learned that in such a situation, at a time of extreme crisis, at such a time of brutal inflation, basic consultations were practically not carried out, and such a radical change measure was presented. Practically hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of small entrepreneurs, have been put in an impossible position. Well, it is worth pouring clean water, Madam Speaker, Honourable Congresswoman Elijah Boglárka: how exactly and how do things happen here? If you would just listen a little bit, Congresswoman, I would like to ask him exactly when, as a Member, he received this proposal. So when did Boglárka Elijah and Lőrinc Nacsa receive, as MP, the motion that the Minister of Finance had tabled here yesterday in a dog race? And I would also like to ask the lead speaker of Fidesz and the lead speaker of KDNP if they have any idea what kind of damage they're going to do to hundreds of thousands or more of people here. Do you have any idea what the impact of this proposal on society and the Hungarian economy will be? So you received the proposal yesterday, and basically you were assigned the task of publishing it blindly here, doing it without knowing the expected effects, or perhaps you have received some kind of background study hidden from everyone before or even weeks ago? And then the situation is that you knew what your government was up to, you knew what the finance minister was up to, and you kept it from the Hungarian small entrepreneurs, you kept it from the Hungarian society, and you didn't give a lot of people a chance to prepare for these effects. So, dear Boglárka Illés, who keeps talking to his fellow Member, I repeat the question: when have you received this proposal, since when have you, as a responsible Member of Parliament, been familiar with this proposal? Are you going to vote for this in a blind, factionist, political discipline, or have you been prepared for this, personally, and you, fellow Members, have known this proposal, and have simply kept it from the Hungarian people, Hungarian small entrepreneurs, what effect will this have? I think that it is quite amazing and symbolic, as my fellow Members have pointed out, that you, too, are protecting the interests of multinational companies, multinationals with global, brutal economic power, to the point of breaking their nails. They are pushing every step to avoid increasing the tax burden on these huge, gigantic multi-enterprises, so that they do not have to take part in public burdens in such a serious, critical time, and then, in these circumstances, in such an economic and social crisis, you bring in such a proposal and put hundreds of thousands or more people in an extremely hopeless situation. I think that this is a truly amazing, irresponsible behavior, and I see only one good solution to this situation, that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán keeps a short video login as usual and says that in a time of severe crisis, there is only one thing he can do to protect Hungarian small entrepreneurs from the finance minister and instruct him to withdraw the proposal. I very much hope that, Mr Prime Minister, seeing the tragic situation that you have created, you will make this announcement before this outrageous proposal is put to the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-07-12-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr István Apáti of the Group of our country. Here you go, Congressman. [[13.20]]
u2022-07-12-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I am very sorry that Boglárka Elijah left the meeting room, and a spiritual duel with unarmed men is not advisable, but I am now forced to say a few hard words to him, because what he has just said is a serious witness to the incredible political incompetence, stupidity, and narrow-mindedness. And I'd also like to record that I'm sorry that you're not here, you've got the guts to get out of here, that you're gonna have to eat a lot of beans and more spinach to beat me at any time, in any form. Nonsense, what he did, because unlike him, I don't read what I have to say from paper, I usually speak from the head, that's what I'm doing right now. On the other hand, I have always received more votes in my constituency than the organization or party that has appointed me. That's how it was in all four parliamentary elections. I have now started in the colours of a right-wing opposition party whose local list results I have exceeded by 50 percent. 2800 votes for our country movement, I got 4,200 votes in the constituency. 9.15 percent of my party's national results were almost doubled. My party considered me fit to launch me in the constituency; he was not even worthy to be launched. He got into Parliament from the national list by not measuring himself anywhere in a single individual area. So I don't have anything to be ashamed of in my election district. In addition, I am here in the colors of a party that has at least doubled its social support in the last two months, and our country is now the strongest, most supportive opposition party. It was, by the way, beneath the belt that he associated me with the person involved in the sex scandal, or dared compare me to that person, but I'm not angry with those who attack below the belt, because they're only up there, you know. I take that as a personal offense, a serious personal offense, by the way. That person was founded by six political parties, six political parties were behind him; Hungary's youngest party was behind me, and I am very proud of that, by the way. So Buttercup Elijah owes at least one apology. You could learn from your father, who is an impeccable gentleman and a decent entrepreneur, by the way, whom I had the pleasure of meeting earlier. It's really shameful and shameful, what you just said here, and you didn't say a word about the bill. He has shown extreme political and professional incompetence, so I suggest you keep him away from the debate on the bill for a long time, because he will burn the Fidesz-KDNP to a quarter degree. Thank you.
u2022-07-12-86	Dear fellow Member, It seems to me that there's been a little bit of an argument going out of hand, and he's headed for personalities, and I don't want to allow that any longer. Therefore, I would kindly ask everyone to express their views on the bill, to present their impressions and feelings about it to the honourable Parliament, and to stop being personal, because at that moment I will withdraw the floor from it. Too bad I didn't do it sooner. Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, who is the notary of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-87	Mr President, Dear House, The President's warning should be observed, although it is a fact that Mrs Elijah has inspired a lot of people here in this Chamber with her words. I would warn Members not to use it as an argument in a professional debate about how many votes they have received either individually or on a list. I remember such an era when it measured the value of one's position in the political food chain. What's next? We're gonna take out the glasses? [[Dr. Attila Tilki intervenes.]] So let us not summon such times in Parliament. What we have to say is that if we want to talk about the core of the bill, we have to talk about the fact that the Hungarian Medical Association has recently issued a statement that health workers are also involved in the intended amendment of the Cata Act by Fidesz, and they feel, in particular, that patient care could be put at risk, and that the system of health roads itself is not so streamlined as to make it even more difficult if those workers will also be subject to the cataign amendments that are present here. I can see from the government's side that you're trying hard to protect the interests of multinational companies. That is why I am surprised that on the other side he is trying so hard to cut Hungarian entrepreneurs by means of his austerity package. Our respectful request is that it would be best to withdraw all of this within an hour, so preferably before the vote. If they find it even more difficult to reach withdrawal now, so by the end of an hour, they can reassure everyone that health workers are at least exempt from the intention of the amendment, because it may be in debate, and it can be said, regardless of the political side, that further threats to health can cause disaster in Hungary. I'm asking you to think about this, no more, and possibly withdraw the entire package. I'm going to make some improvements to my proposals to eliminate any abuse, but the madness that you're planning to do right now, you don't have to go through with it, it's unnecessary, it's dangerous. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-07-12-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-89	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Let us take advantage of the opportunity for the Fidesz MEPs to slowly enter the room, who have so far kept their distance from the debate, and to tell them what has been going on and what are the arguments that are in favour of you not adopting this law. Not even because neither the government nor the previously delegated one or two government representatives could convince anyone to do so. In fact, the situation has come to this point, and I'm sure you're aware that for hours there have been protests by people whose livelihoods, their everyday opportunities, have been ruined. Of course, it could even be understood that, in order to establish the inflation situation in Orbán, and since you know how much responsibility you have in this regard, because in all cases you have contributed by your vote to supporting a ruined economic policy, you must also act very carefully in this situation. But now there is a moment like that, which was also at the time of adoption of the slave law, that we call and ask you, which is more pleasing to you, not to do against people, but to help them by rejecting this law, not accepting it, because in itself it is not only the tax increase, the revenue that is important, but also the keeping, leaving, maintaining space for those people; you know, people whose opportunities you have celebrated at a time when 350 euros have been delivered to this economic policy situation, and now when we are in a position to supplement the wages of a beginner educator with 16 500 forints in order to reach the guaranteed minimum wage, otherwise. [[Sic!]] In these circumstances, you will be able to take another step, and the businesses, the entrepreneurs of whom you are a good part, I could also say that you are a forced contractor, who is doing it himself, not to live in your grace, but to do more for your own creativity and opportunities, by staying home in Hungary by the way, I could say that you will stay home and work and take advantage of the opportunity you have created before, where you have seduced them, and now you are slamming people in the face to slam the door in front of them, and you decide that you have had enough of this opportunity. What is this possibility, because it cannot be seen as an exaggeration in itself if, under the present circumstances, those who invest, buy assets, rent rooms, and maintain a business, if they would like to earn an income of around HUF 600 thousand, for example, take a risk in order to obtain this income, and it is these small businesses that do this activity as a single-person undertaking that are self-employed. We can look at them that way. [[13.30]] Now, these people have been told to shut down this activity. The decision that has been brought before Parliament today essentially means that after today's decision, after today's votes, there is a possibility that you will have to sit down next to the kitchen table and either work black or close the business you have done so far. I see that we say this in vain, but I hope that you have heard the examples of what we have brought up here; among them, the small-store manufacturer of creative tools who sells to teachers who buy them the tools that help us raise our children, but by the way, they receive support from our local government in order to be able to buy there and put the bill out on the institution, and compared to that, you will shut down this store, you will no longer be able to maintain its activities. For this reason, I propose that businesses which make a contribution to their employment or entrepreneurial activity should be helped to make this work. They are the people who oppose Orbán's austerity measures, who, despite all his actions, maintain and keep the lives of their families and create the conditions for working. They are being spit upon when this law is passed, and therefore this is unacceptable, and I ask you to be warned and called upon to stop this, to withdraw, to be in good time. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-07-12-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Mr Endre Tóth. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear members of the government. You have created a tax haven from Hungary for multinational companies, and are now preparing to create a tax hell for small entrepreneurs and small Hungarian entrepreneurs from the country. If a multi-party company wants to come to the Hungarian tax haven, then at the gate you will find Szijjártó. Szent.Péter, who is waiting for them with tax breaks and a record low corporate tax. On the other hand, Hungarian small entrepreneurs today are about to be thrown into the brimstone buds of the tax hell, where Mihály Varga and László Parragh are stabbing them with their pitchforks with the ban on company billing and the deadline for the changeover in September. But back from the religious metaphors to the dry facts: today you are throwing out 300,000 Hungarian small entrepreneurs and giving them only a two-month deadline to adapt and find the new tax. This threatens the existence of 300 thousand Hungarian families; they destroy the built-up business model of 300 thousand Hungarian families and Hungarian workers, while they give a high priority to the principle of social consultation expressed by Tibor Navracsics to the EU, and they want to beat this legislation through the Hungarian Parliament in just one day. It's called willfulness and dictatorship. They say they want to reduce tax evasion with this measure, but be careful of their words, because when they say that, they think that this 300,000 people they want out of the kata would all be tax frauds. And they also say that their own government was so stupid that for years he allowed 300,000 people from his tax system to draw taxes. Do you think your government is that stupid? We believe that 300,000 people are not tax frauds, but the entrepreneurial cream of Hungarian society, who still produce a lot of GDP and pay tribute, operate legally. And later, as soon as they outgrow themselves and their current status, as founders of high-end businesses, they could give jobs to a lot of people if you'd let them. In the late '80s, home farming was in place, and many people may remember it, in which many saw the opportunity to break out and the extra income. Now the opportunity to break out was the cata, from which only creativity and diligence could move forward. You would now close this possibility of free enterprise to the people. Finally, I have a quote from Bianka, who is deeply affected by this katás bill. Says Bianka: I'm a freelancer, manager consultant, strategist, designer, writer. The few things I feel free to do, that's my job, the projects, the relationships that are born this way, the values that I can create with others. I choose this path not to harm the state or anyone, but because I feel like it's the best way to do it. It will not solve inflation or recession if we use an irresponsible decision to get the ground out of those who do not deserve it. The creative industry consists of freelancers. And in the life of a designer or graphic artist, it's a huge thing when a big company, such as a Hollywood filmmaker or a global brand, votes for trust in a project, but they're somehow forgotten again. I'd like to stay free, at least in this. I'd like my air to stop running out. This is what Bianka wrote. My fellow members of the Government. Don't take the air away from Bianka and her mates. The Momentum Movement Group has tabled proposals for amendments, which you will be able to vote for, so that they do not have to face the wrath of their own electorate tomorrow, and do not have to face the wrath of the katás entrepreneurs, who would now be sent to a slaughterhouse. Our proposals would ensure the further predictable and legal functioning of the clicks, and if you would like to look into the mirror tomorrow morning, you should vote for the amendment, otherwise you will have to face the consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Momentum, DK, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-07-12-92	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, I didn't stop him, but I respectfully ask that no matter what the religious world view or the worldview is, any other time in church terms, please don't joke. Thank you very much for your understanding. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-93	Dear Citizens, We've just come from the street, from the street, where the bridges have been shut down, and people are protesting against your restrictions. When the unfortunate Gergely Gulyás, who had to be told last week that from now on, the Fidesz power machine will operate in such a state of law, they will agree so much about everything, there will be social consultations so that they will only be in need! And then yesterday morning, they're gonna submit something that we're arguing about, and they're gonna vote for it in half an hour, that's what you're thinking? Is that supposed to make the European Union so moved that they suddenly pour the world's money on themselves? Is this supposed to stop the economic crisis? Do you want to deal with the livelihood crisis by taking away the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of small entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises, and often forced entrepreneurs, by pushing them into a brutal tax increase? That's your plan? Is this the big crisis in Orbán? Is this the Orbán package? Should we hit those who have a hard time getting math out at the end of the month, whose income is uncertain anyway? By any chance, not to the fidesz oligarch companies, by any chance to the international giant corporations, no, you guys are gonna hit on the clicks. And I don't know, dear individual Fidesz fellow Members, have consulted in their own constituency the people, the decent Hungarian small entrepreneurs who sent themselves to the Parliament to see if they were committed to supporting this? When Viktor Orbán told me in his reply that there would be no austerity and no austerity, was that what you meant? Isn't a tax increase a cutback? Doesn't paying more mean cutting back on you? The poor Hungarian families already need to tighten their backyard budgets enough to pay for the rising food bills, so that the food crisis caused by their unthinking, unimaginative policies is somehow moved. With such inflation, with such a HUF exchange rate, you will strike another million Hungarians. At least 300,000 small entrepreneurs and their family members are those who are losing them now, or at least in far more difficult circumstances, to ensure their livelihoods. [[13.40]] Is this your plan, this fidesz crisis management? ! On the Margaret Bridge there are desperate Katács entrepreneurs, telling how they, as artists, intellectuals, and independent freelancers, will solve their lives much harder from the coming months, how they will be forced back to the grey economy, how they will lose a significant proportion of their orders, or how they will have to pay more taxes than before. One speaker pointed out that they were all Katás entrepreneurs in the family, and for them your plan represents a 400 percent tax increase. Will the Hungarian small business community's tax increase be quadrupled? Are they making industry as a whole impossible? That's the big plan? Is that what you can do? ! With all due respect, I would suggest that you consider this amendment, consult with your own voters. Not all Katas voted for the opposition, the next time they vote for all opposition parties, all of them will vote for change. If the interests of the nation, if the interests of the Hungarian society, the interests of the Hungarian families, the interests of the Hungarian people are not viewed, then at least look at their own political interests! You can't be interested in pissing off half a million people, a million people with family. You guys, I'll tell you what it's supposed to be for you. What is happening to the entire country is that giant companies to whom tax havens have been built here in Hungary should pay taxes. And don't worry, there won't be a competitive disadvantage, there'd be a competitive disadvantage if there was a higher tax level here. 140 countries have agreed to tax at least 15% of large capital, international giant companies. For Hungary, this would be 600 billion HUF plus. It would solve a lot of our problems, wouldn't it? How many billion forints do you expect from the misery of the cataclysms? One, two, five, ten? Not 600 billion. Take it from where I beg you, where there's money, not where I already miss it. So be brave, because your own boss praises you because you're very brave, so be brave. And you know what? Don't vote off your own proposal, I don't even expect you to take it off the agenda, because that would be very difficult on the agenda. I'd like to suggest you a civilized, polite, cautious stay. Do not support the bleeding of Hungarian small entrepreneurs! You have a few more minutes to think about this. I ask you, fellow Fidesz and KDNP colleagues, to be wise, humane, and humane for once in your life. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-12-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Endre Tóth of the Momentum Group has applied for a new speech. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Gábor Havasi, our health politician, has just sent me a statement from the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which I will read to you so that you can make a decision with appropriate information. So this is the Hungarian Medical Chamber's statement: the transition of cata-rules in health care makes it more difficult to set up shifts, hinders the continuous care of patients in clinics and departments. In order to safeguard patient safety and security of supply, we ask that health workers are exempted from the billing rule of the Cata Act which does not prohibit invoicing individuals until the promised transformation of health care. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear members of the government. At least for the sake of patient safety, postpone this decision. If you don't count on the katás entrepreneurs, think of the patients whose security of supply is disrupted, who are going to the emergency room and can't find anyone there. Please consider this decision. You see, you make a mistake, you see it on the streets, you see it in Parliament, you consider it, and you postpone it at least for the social consultation. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-12-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Szabolcs Szabó also spoke from the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Then let's continue with the positions of professional organisations. The Society of Fine Writers has written you an open letter. This is what the statement says: The Bureau of the Society of Fine Writers objects to the introduction of a new bill on Kata and calls on decision makers not to accept it in its current form. The so-called kata has been the only shelter for those working as entrepreneurs in the art sector for a decade, the opportunity to make a decent living at least approximately and the last certain point in the already sufficiently chaotic tax system in Hungary. We draw attention to the fact that the bill was born without any substantive technical agreement, not in terms of content, but in terms of content, but in terms of termination, and the rush to negotiate and accept on 12 July, the introduction on 1 September of the year suggests recklessness and, in worse cases, conscious destructive intent, so the new Cata Law is unacceptable in its present form for the literary profession. We would very much like to explain and have explained in detail our objections to certain points of the bill, to make our proposals on how to modify, improve, modernise taxation, to list our concerns about radical transformation, but thus, at the same time as negotiating and expected adoption of the bill, only the possibility of short, objective and clear protest remains. We are solidarity with the professions that are also expected to suffer from the transformation, and we call on the relevant professional organisations and interest representatives to join forces and to raise joint protests. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, This is what the Bureau of the Society of Fine Writers says to you. Make sure that you do so during the vote. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-12-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Antal Csárdi of the LMP Group has applied for a speech, but I do not see him in the Chamber. [[Antal Csárdi stands up as his representative and raises his hand. Intercoms, among them: There it is! Defiance.]] I do now. [[Antal Csárdi: Yes, my old place was there.]] I was looking for him in his old place. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-99	Thank you very much for the floor. And then really, I like this process that my fellow Members have started. Taxi representatives, taxi drivers, who would otherwise feel like the winners of this amendment, put it this way: the professional representation of taxi drivers asks the government for a correction within 24 hours, and they also want to increase the VAT limit. You have not consulted anyone, not even the otherwise winning taxi drivers, and yet the opinions of many, otherwise professional organizations, which have been published this morning or today, have not yet been read; I am speaking a little now, in case the others find some. I think that these are indicative ideas, and I think they all point in the same direction, honourable Members: this amendment must be withdrawn clearly and immediately in this form. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-12-100	Thank you very much, Congressman, and I apologize for looking for you in the old place, but the few years you've been there have been very impressed with me. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] From the Momentum Group, Mr Dávid Bedő is next. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-101	Thank you very much. It's hard, it's really hard to find words for that. [[Intruder from the party side: Sit down.]] That's what I'm talking about! That's exactly what I'm talking about! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We're sitting here in Parliament talking about an amendment to a law that would make 400,000 people, 400 thousand small entrepreneurs' lives impossible, and you're making jokes. They're sitting in the benches of Parliament, pushing their phones, talking to each other, you don't care, you don't blink. They don't blink, and they want to kill 400,000 people, 400,000 small entrepreneurs overnight. Four days ago, you didn't know what this law was going to be like, and four days ago, the Prime Minister, who led the Prime Minister's Office, didn't know what was going to happen in this law, and today we're voting on it. So there was no discussion, nothing with any representative body, no dialogue or zero consultation with any of the parties involved. In addition, they want to give a single month, a little more, a month and a half for these small entrepreneurs to transform their lives and find out how they will tax in the future. A month and a half! These people have a month and a half to figure out what to do with their lives. You have no idea... [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: With their lives?]] Yeah, with their lives. Their lives, their jobs, their livelihoods. You don't think that's their life? What's that then? [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Isn't that their taxation? Taxation doesn't equal their lives. The president's ringing the bell.]] This kind of attitude is what is really a big problem in this House.
u2022-07-12-102	Fellow Members! It's not a question of dialogue. I'll give the floor to everyone.
u2022-07-12-103	That's the problem. These people have no idea what's gonna happen. [[13.50]] Now I was out on the Margaret Bridge, which has been closed for two hours, because the clickers are protesting what you're doing here. Have you considered the consequences of this with current inflation? What do you think will happen if these small entrepreneurs then have to raise their prices? The price of most of their services will increase and continue to fuel this inflation. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: That's right!]] If they have a tiny conscience, a tiny one, I really don't ask much of you, just a little bit, they won't vote for this bill today. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-12-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, Ms Rebecca Szabó is next. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's the one who didn't vote...]]
u2022-07-12-105	Thank you for the floor. Here, I would just like to gently tell Deputy Prime Minister Semyen that, yes, some people's lives depend on taxation, yes! That must be hard for you to imagine, isn't it? But the fact is that there are very, very many people in Hungary today whose livelihood is hanging by a thread because of your stupid, evil politics. They don't care about inflation, food prices go up. And not just the intellectual professions, but the hairdressers, the bike messengers, the jewelers and a lot of people who really need to think about how they're gonna make a living for their family. And so from September, this other thing that has already been said here by several people is that it is quite amazing that they not only make such rules without any agreement, but that people's lives do change their income relations within a period of about 90 days. That's some really amazing stupid shit. Look, you could say that, and I've been thinking a lot about what the hell we're doing here in Parliament, because obviously we don't have a decision right to two thirds of you. By the way, Deputy Prime Minister Semyen, you can look me in the eye, I can see you looking at the ceiling, I'm sure it's very boring what I'm saying. [[At the place of Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, he turns to Rebekah Szabó.]] But the truth is, people are protesting out on the Margaret Bridge, people are protesting out on the Elizabeth Bridge, and the reason we're actually here is because someone here has to tell us what's going on, because you come in with your expensive cars, you go down to the underground garage, you don't look out on the street, you have no idea what's going on in this country. So now... [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Congresswoman voted in favour of Kata at the time? Rumors from the opposition: Buttons! Button push! The president's ringing the bell.]] So what you can do now is walk out, please, to the Margaret Bridge, see what's there. Look into the eyes of these people whose livelihoods you're ruining. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] And then maybe look inside and try to look in the mirror, because I don't think they can. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-12-106	Thank you very much. Mr Lóránt Keresztes has applied for a repeated speech from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that there is no need to be surprised that the debate is going on and that everyone is trying to take advantage of the limited time frame, because you have completely failed to negotiate in advance. It has been said in today's debate that, by the way, you have not complied with any of the conciliation obligations described in the legislation. I asked the two pro-government speakers, Mrs Boglárka Illés and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, I have not yet received an answer; I think it would be important to see how many people, how many small entrepreneurs are thrown into virtually hopeless situations, when you personally received this proposal as lead speakers as Members. So what exactly did the government side use this time? That you've been involved, and that through some kind of impact assessment that you've been hiding from society, you already know the effects of this bill, and you're speaking for it? However, this means that they have practically kept this proposal from society from us, and they have not given us a chance to prepare. Or was it simply pushed into your hands yesterday, and you, out of blind zeal, followed by faction discipline, simply performed and pressed the button, and you will demand that of all your fellow factions? What's up? I would like to ask you this, personally, my dear fellow Member Nacha and dear Mr Boglárka Illés, when you learned about this proposal. They still have plenty of time to answer that. I think that, in such a situation, in such a serious, critical crisis, in the context of such war inflation, as you say, such a powerful amendment will be brought in, with virtually no time to prepare, only a month and a half of migration time, then I think it is justified to have at least a detailed debate on this issue here in Parliament, to have a substantively detailed debate, and to take into account the views of the various social and economic actors who have been able to put this in practice since yesterday. I'd do an experiment like that. The Association of Certified Accountants has also issued a resolution on this, who say they regret that such a bill has been drafted, and they believe that if it is adopted, hundreds of thousands of honest taxpayers will be the victim of the damage. They ask that the Parliament do not accept this proposal in this form. They express concern about the bill because it destroys the lives of hundreds of thousands of families, and they say that, of course, the conversion of the cata is also necessary, but they believe that the worst possible solution has been achieved, the changes are unviable, unfulfilled, and more than three quarters of the Katács entrepreneurs need to look for a different form of taxation. I'm not reading this statement right now. So they also say that it is really necessary to modify the kata system, but carefully, taking into account the various aspects. In such a situation, in particular, this is the only way to do so and to bring about this really necessary change. So I am asking you very, very much now that you have plenty of time to make a decision, whether by faction or faction, to take the debate of this bill off the agenda now, and to bring it back after a meaningful social consultation, and, if appropriate, perhaps even by consensus, a proposal that will not put Hungarian small entrepreneurs in a difficult situation, not an impossible situation, but will indeed bring an amendment to Parliament that is forward and will not cause such serious damage to such a very difficult crisis situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-12-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Mr Ferenc Gelencsér Group leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-109	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying, in general, that the House and its honourable Speaker, and my honourable fellow Members, well, the truth is that there is very little to respect in you. Look at you, we're here, and we're gonna vote on a law that destroys 400,000 people, 400,000 families. By the way, have you read what they're gonna vote on? It's a shame! It's your shame! You know, they sit here in their very expensive suits. [[Máté Kocsis: Yourself! Your silk suit!]] There's one thing you can't buy: the pedigree. That's what you're missing very badly. You are supposed to be a family-friendly government, but now you are destroying Hungarian families. You're supposed to be creating a work-based society, and you're taking jobs from 400,000 people. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Freak! They are currently producing a level of cynicism that I do not think has been experienced in Hungarian history. I believe you hate us. Hate me, I'm here, you can hate me [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] But I beg you, they don't hate Hungarian people. Don't hate 400,000 Hungarian entrepreneurs and their families! Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches. We don't even know who you are!]]
u2022-07-12-110	I'm asking everyone to try to calm down from that point of view, and to tell you, preferably professionally, everything they want so that they don't have to sow the seed of hate here anymore. Mr Szabolcs Szabó spoke again from the Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Now I'll be very short, even shorter than the last one. I don't know, I'm going to ask you this question about how your last afternoon and your evening went. For example, many of the Csepel and Soroksár Katás entrepreneurs have called me to explain how their lives will go after September 1st. And I would say that to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, yes, this is about their lives, which is why I was called to tell them what would happen to their lives. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Self-employed!]] It's not taxation, it's not that it's a technical thing, it's something that fundamentally affects their lives. I believe and sign that the VAT on reindeer hunting in Norway is not a factor affecting our lives, but the kata here in Hungary, if it is done like this, is a factor affecting our lives. This is no way to fool the House. At least let's do it in a normal concordance and not in such a coup d'état. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-12-112	Mr Bence Tordai, Head of the Group of Dialogue, spoke again. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-113	Thank you for the floor. I would now speak as an individual representative, representing the 4th constituency of Budapest. That's right, it's number two. The district is also included, in this district there are most individual entrepreneurs in Hungary, the biggest entrepreneurial spirit, and perhaps it is worth looking at this amendment a little bit from this aspect as well. So you've tried to hack this catamosifying story in such a way that those who, as an independent existentialist, as an entrepreneur not dependent on the government, may have been overly self-conscious opponents, may have had too much pepper under your nose. Probably a small businessman in Buda or even a bike or motorcycle courier can't threaten to fire him or his relative. [[14.00]] Because your rule is based on this, on fear, on intimidation, and what stings the eyes of power the most is your independent existence, the one who is not exposed to your pleasure. What we see in this catamosifying story is that they want to silence hundreds of thousands of critical voices, make it harder for them to deal more with their own livelihoods, work more, and do not support, say, independent journalism, support independent culture, support the remaining institutions of freedom in general, which increasingly require independent citizens and independent existentialities, because everything that comes from public money paid by opposition citizens and arriving in the common register does not reach independent institutions, whether it is culture or cultural and information institutions. So we can see the mean, evil intentions behind this. [[Máté Kocsis: Now, take it easy.]] We can see that they may have gone a little overboard. Let us see it, but now your worst advisor, their worst self, László Parragh, said it was a little strong. Well, it's very delicately put, it's a very strong success, and there is no rule of law where a tax amendment that doesn't allow such a 50-day period of preparation would go through the Constitutional Court. So I'm curious to see if you've released the Ukazás to your constitutional judges, or we're gonna play that game, and we're gonna see how you can carry on the law, see if there's still enough sparks of the rule of law in Hungary to make it go away, or we're not gonna play it through; either they're really gonna change their minds, withdraw or vote off their own laws, because that would be the only reassuring solution. You're gonna get a hot summer here, even if you don't do anything politically, because the climate disaster is on our tails. It's gonna be 40 next week anyway. [[Máté Kocsis: In Budapest? Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Do you take the subway, tram? 'Cause I take the subway and the trolley!]] But if you want a politically hot summer and a hot autumn, you can just keep going in this direction, and then you're gonna grind yourself down. We, to be honest, would be delighted to see this, but not at the cost of ruining the livelihood of one million Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the dialogue.]]
u2022-07-12-114	Thank you very much. Member Ms Agnes Kunhalmi of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Let's go from Buda to South Pest. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: Pestszentlőrincen in the district, Pestszentimrén are not the richest people living, small-money people who live honestly and from their own work [[Máté Kocsis: You don't live there either! Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] And it was certainly important to them to pay this tax. I would also like to say that you say that we need to make Hungarian society crisis-proof. In a crisis, the crisis is that they touch those half a million people who make a living out of their small money, and now they want to take away their taxes and make their situation difficult? Everyone in this country knows that the oligarchs don't use the tax code of the cata, they're not the oligarchs you normally don't involve in public cargo, are they? And there's something else I want to tell you. Now it will be revealed to the public of the country, to everyone on the right and left, that although they lie that the austerity is lacking in your dictionary, you cannot and cannot do a global economic crisis without austerity. It is not only the cata where they squeeze, but also the discounts for large families, such as the car purchase discount, that they withdraw or greatly cut the budget for this, but there is, for example, the fact that they will also withdraw from public workers. So even though the system of national cooperation has lied over the last 10 to 12 years, that, by the way, in an economic, global economy economy economy, if there was an economic crisis, you would do better than anyone else that you wouldn't be able to squeeze me, that's a restriction, with a large M, and that's what's about to come out in both the right and left half of the country. Please don't do this, leave the catnips alone, as an individual congressman, please, and as head of the MSZP, please. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-07-12-116	Thank you very much. Member Csaba Dömötör of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. [[An uproar from opposition parties. It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-07-12-117	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We have listened to their speeches here, and the feeling is that what they have presented is hypocrisy in the middle, because this government introduced the tax code of kata, and when the government initiated it, the pro-government factions voted for it. We looked at the records: on the other hand, no left-wing faction supported the kata tax. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] MSZP representatives [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They've just spoken. When it had to be voted on, the MSZP did not support it. Members of the LMP have spoken. When they had to vote on it, they didn't support it. The betterman MEPs spoke with harsh words. When they had to vote on it, they didn't support it. DK representatives did not support it, if I recall correctly, when they were independent when they had to vote on it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But we support it now! We've changed our minds.]] Those who have shown themselves in the past few hours, such as Gergely Christmas, Rebekah Szabó, MEP László Varju, Dániel Z. Kárpát, when it came to voting here in this House, were not supported. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Now yes!]] Hypocrite on cube! Hungary is a free country. Everyone can give their opinion. I ask you that if you refer to those who may disagree with the current amendments, you should go and tell them that if it were up to you, then kata taxation would not exist in Hungary. Tell them. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Instead, there would be two-key income tax, up to 40 percent, instead there would be increased corporate tax, up to 19 percent, for example, Gergely Christmas suggested this. Would there be a global minimum tax instead, which means what? That we would even give out the definition of the tax rate. That would be a brutal tax increase. Not for a few thousand, not for a few hundred thousand people, but for every wage earner and every Hungarian business. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Sure! All of you!]] Well, it's a good thing we didn't choose this path. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-12-118	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Ms Éva Sebők. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Finally!]] Here you go.
u2022-07-12-119	Thank you very much. In 2016, the fact that I'm going to be dealing with politics hasn't been on the table at all. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Who cares?]] That's when I worked as an employee and a payroll clerk. I would like to read a Facebook entry from January 2016 that I wrote back then. This year's change of legislation will turn the start of the month into a capitol child in front of President Snow's residence, and the paratrooper gift packages will arrive. For those who wouldn't have the pop culture reference, in the Hunger Games there were bombs on the children from the parachutes. Since 2016, it has changed so much that we are no longer talking about the beginning of the year and not about January, but about 90 days. 90 days for a decent software transition is not enough in these areas. We live in a country where it is understandable that an auditor, an accountant, a tax advisor, is performing a night shift to observe how Gergely Gulyás spoke about this morning, how the night will appear on Parliament's website. I say that you say that stability is important, that predictability is important, that you would be right; the reality is that you send the parachutes to the Capitol. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2022-07-12-120	Thank you very much. Mr Imre Komjáthi of the MSZP Group is now taking the floor. There you go. You have the floor. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Let's listen to the commie!]]
u2022-07-12-121	Thank you very much for the floor. You're talking about imagination. It's an illusion that people who dared to kick a man working with honor out of Suzuki because he was trying to start a union, then you said you couldn't interfere with the internal affairs of a factory, the life of a factory. When we raised our voices about what they were doing in Dunaújváros at Dunaferr [[You privatized him!]] What they were doing at Continental, what they were doing at Tungsram, the answer was, well, we can't interfere with the inner life of an economic group, a company. [[14.10]] But now they have a say in people's lives? ! Can they now interfere in the lives of businesses, entrepreneurs? ! Can they ruin their lives the same way they ruined the people who raised their voices for the workers, the workers, the union? ! Well, shame on you. Now I see there are two kinds of smiles on their faces. One is the confused smile and the other is the honest smile. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They don't have a word of honesty!]] Maybe that honest smile hurts more because it's cynical, but at least it's honest. But confused smiles aren't honest. I know you're embarrassed, I know you can see that you've made a mistake. Say it calmly, say this sentence: we still have mistakes, but the results achieved are disappointing. And make a change, and finally, let's finally have a family-friendly government. You tell this family-friendly government so many times, but when it comes to ruining families' lives, you suddenly forget about it. They beat their breasts with a brick tied with a national ribbon to see how big Hungarians are, but they don't care about the fate of the Hungarian people. So if you'll just look inside, and there's still time for this law to be revoked. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties. Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, including Lőrinc Nacsa: Up, up, you prisoners of the earth!]]
u2022-07-12-122	Thank you very much. The group leader, László Toroczkai, will be taking part in this speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only have 49 seconds left, because the Group of the Hungarian Movement is involved in this debate with professional suggestions, not in the circus you are providing, but I am simply forced to speak in these few seconds. We are going to pass on in writing to you the proposals that I have spoken about many times before, that we can show you a very long list of how many people around the House of Fidesz and here, around the House of Momentum or the House of DK could be taxed instead of bringing down Hungarian workers, forced entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises with this catapult proposal. We'll give this to you. I was out at the bridge closing just now, and I have more experience with this than momentary people. [[An uproar in the ranks of the Momentum.]] who are now trying to settle for this demonstration, while their masters are the ones the Fidesz is protecting for some reason, those giant tech companies [[An uproar in the lines of Momentum, LMP, Dialogue, DK and MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] or, for example, global corporations that are not taxed for some reason. There's a lot of money there, so talk about it in the megaphone on the bridge, not bullshit. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-12-124	Thank you very much. From the Group of Dialogue, it is up to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, please. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm glad the Fidesz Members have finally spoken, even if it's just a quiet murmur. I'm glad you don't like it when I speak, because that means I'm doing my job well. [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I represent the people you're about to crush. 350,000 people [[Intercoms from the pro-government lines, including: You didn't vote for it! The president's ringing the bell.]] Its fate will be decided in 24 hours. This could affect a million people in total if you look at families. Well, are you ashamed to call yourselves a family-friendly government? ! Well, they'll kill their livelihood in one night. And who the hell cares who made this bill, and who voted for it then? ! [[Constant interrogations from the pro-government and opposition ranks.]] Now you erase it. That's what Csaba Dömötör is proud of, and you say that in 24 hours people will lose their livelihood? ! Gergely Gulyás was on the phone yesterday, when I asked him why the adult diaper got out of the crowd, and he started to yell how funny that was. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: It is not true!]] Do you know who wears a diaper? The elderly patients with dementia and the people with disabilities with congenital disorders, for whom you now, because you collect even the small money from the most vulnerable, are 10-15 thousand forints a month that you are now taking, meaning that you are not sure that there will be dinner on 28-29-30 days a month. And now you're doing the same thing to tens of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands. I'll see when you're not sipping your 30,000 forints soup at the five-star restaurant, as Rogán Antal did one summer. [[Intercoms from the pro-government and opposition ranks.]] It's just, like, at home, they want to order from a restaurant, who's gonna take it out? Because he's not gonna be a caterer because of this cadaver law anyway. [[Noise.]] And if, say, another pandemic comes in in the fall, another plague wave comes in, and you're sure you can't go to a restaurant, then you're gonna be the best freaked out that you're gonna have to wait hours for someone to deliver your food, because you're not gonna be that kind of person. Or the same way there won't be people in health care. At least they'd listen to the Medical Chamber. If they have destroyed health care and cannot work in employment, and still 30 percent of nurses and health workers are missing, and some of the rest are catatose, they are now taking away their livelihood. You are now moving hundreds of thousands of these people into the black economy or the economy without a living. In addition, they don't even achieve the goal they want to collect, because what they gain in the gap, they lose in customs. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, among them: How wise!]] That the people who paid taxes would rather go to the grey and the black economy. So they won't even be able to collect the pennies they wanted. And all in 24 hours! We know that Parragh is a bad counselor, but this morning, he said exceptionally good things, that, well, we pushed it a little too far. Think about it, and you've got a few minutes to withdraw this despicable law. Don't destroy a million people in this country. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks, among them: Now it's a million!]] Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-07-12-126	Thank you very much. Member Zoltán Vajda of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You always give examples by representing the Hungarian people and the nation and the Hungarian families. I'm used to you guys always making decisions against people, nation and family. I'm used to that. I'm also getting used to the fact that it's not a random side action, it's a conscious activity. However, for the first time today, I have seen that you are not only making decisions against the people, the nation and the family, and that you are consciously doing so, but all of this in a way that is impertinent, impertinent and arrogant. It's a new experience for me today. I have brought you some concrete examples of Hungarian people, Hungarian families and the Hungarian people so that you can learn from them. In the morning I was able to say a few words about this, only ten of you were here at the time, and a member of the State Secretary with last name Tallai was able to represent the Hungarian Government. Now I see a lot of you are here to press the button, but maybe you can hear it from the street, for example, because I was out there with the protesters, and you're welcome outside, by the way. [[Constant interrogations from the pro-government and opposition ranks.]] Well, maybe not with love, but they're waiting. By the way, Mr Semyen, you are very much expected, and I will tell you this because you are being voted out on, by the way. But first, I'll tell you what existential advice you have here in the middle of the summer, who sells goods, bracelets, earrings and necklaces to a craftsman, but sometimes he also works for exhibitions, and so he's paying bills to a company. What existential advice do you give here at the beginning of the summer to see what kind of solution you will have in August? Klára welcomes you all the way [[Intercom from the pro-government line: Dobrev! Crying from the opposition side.]] who works at a children's theatre, and in most cases they work for companies. How will they be able to help him existentially? Dénes, who's a commercial filmmaker, works most for companies, asks you what he's gonna do? A radiologist doctor wouldn't even tell us her first name because we live in this country because of you, but she told us to call her Eve. He said that he works about 60 percent of his time in a hospital, a state hospital, and then 40 percent in a private order. I'm asking you, Eve, who asked us to just call what existential advice you're giving here at the end of the summer, in August? Mr. Semen, I will speak to you, too, because you are your messenger, so advise Eve. What advice do you give to Zhaba? Csaba is an IT developer. He said he didn't work in his life, always billed me. What's it gonna be? Although you said you didn't have to give him great advice, because he's gonna be on the run, okay? Laszlo also welcomes you. Laszlo has a photocopier shop, works in an individual business, but he said that companies are coming there, asking for a photocopying account. Mr Semen, what should László do with his photocopier shop, who serves individuals most, but also wants companies? And I'm gonna tell you, Mira, who is a marketing specialist, and now you're gonna have to rewrite her contract. And finally, I wish I could tell you a lot more, but I don't want to drag it out any further, and Petra says hello. Petra also asked me to tell you that she is 60 years old, she works as a director's assistant, but she also works as a sidecar courier, both in terms of katás business. [[14.20]] Mr Shemjén, who is the presenter, asks the life-style advice on how he must change now, in the middle of the summer. And the last one, who specifically asked me to lift it, after he came to me and said to me, "Mr. Vajda, tell them that I am a bloody man," said Andrew. András, the blood-fidest one's own indicator, said he was a blood-fidest builder, that he used to bill for housing. He also told me to tell you that he works for panel houses, and he can issue the bill not to individuals, but to the housing association. He asks for the advice of the bloody Andrew themselves on how he should transform this in August. Finally, I would like to tell you that people are voting for themselves. People are voting for Mr Semen out there. They vote in four or even five variations. One vote is that Zsolt Semjén, the distributor, knows what he is doing and sees the bright future of small businesses. The second vote is that Zsolt Semjén understands what he is doing, and he knows that the catapult goes down the toilet with several thousand businesses, so he does. The third one got a lot of votes: Zsolt Semjén doesn't know what he's doing. The fourth was that Zsolt Semjén and I were just going to take the fall, because it doesn't work for anyone else. And finally, there was another vote, which was just that, and Zsolt Semjén, separately. [[Applause on the opposition side.]] These are for you. Mr. Semen, come out with me, let's talk to the people. You want to hear the people's voices, so come on out, let's talk. They're waiting for you outside. Thank you. [[Applause on the opposition side. Noise.]]
u2022-07-12-128	Congressman, I'm sorry, but your time is up. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the notary of the Parliament, is coming. Here you go. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He didn't vote for it either!]]
u2022-07-12-129	Mr President, Dear House, The fact is, compared to the Nacsa Lőrinc Felsõmai, I experienced this moment when you in the Buda Castle tried to turn some of the sheltered apartments into private property and pocket some of them. The thing is, they got on time, and they went back from 100 percent to 1 percent. It was just as coerced, forced confidence from the then fidesz MEP, who defended the proposal, as we saw this morning, and then they danced back from that proposal. We were talking about apartments for the Castle, and now hundreds of thousands of our countrymen. I think you're being protested by people you didn't think would be. Not party soldiers, but entrepreneurial people who, if there were national protection in this government's dictionary, would now receive protection, not a austerity package. The real face of the Fidesz unfolded at the TAB meeting yesterday. You have rejected the proportional taxation of multi-company companies to bear public burdens, so they do not want to tax the multinationals fairly, while they bring in a austerity package, and Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises are being squeezed and taxed into coal. I would like to remind you that you are not authorized to govern by multinational companies. I would like to warn you that your strategic partners, the multinationals, provide one third of the jobs in Hungary, and you are constantly pampering them for this. The people we are talking about here, a real two-thirds, micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, they make it possible for you to argue about a budget at all. They carry the national economy on their backs, they maintain two thirds of the jobs, they provide bread to a lot of people. It has been said many times during the debate that the national interest dictates that you are doing what you are doing now. I would like to ask you what kind of national interest it is that, according to your proposal, from autumn as a side occupation, you cannot be a cataclysm with a pension. What nation's interest is this? Because the Hungarian national interest is certain that it is not possible for a retired corrector who works for the publishing house to obtain an additional income with his pension. We do not see how many pensioners can hide among those who abuse opportunities and rules. The fact is that Article 21 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: We live in the middle of the century. If you want to settle this issue, and there is a point of agreement between us, I do not welcome abuses, hidden employment, but this is a software question, fellow Members. In the environment that you control, every transaction at the NAV is traceable. They're perfectly aware of which company has a slightly suspiciously high percentage of employees. I'm gonna need you to run target tests there and investigate the abuse. We're talking about software issues, professional issues. And you're gonna bring anything on this paper into this House, you're gonna rip it up, and I think you already see that you've missed it in a number of social classes and groups. Probably did not measure the real effects of this in the two days. The only thing I can suggest to you is that you try to get me out of this as well as from the rental issue, because I think you can perfectly see that this clicking austerity package is going to stir bigger waves than it could be modeled in advance. They may even have done a telephone search on this, but these are often unmodelled processes. Now there are people protesting against you who may have been their voters a few weeks ago, and that can't be ruled out. And what we see is that it's not just about the retired corrector, it's about college lecturers, it's about florists who do company orders, or, as we've said, in a simple gym, the personal trainer can continue his activities, like he's been doing, dealing with a person, billing him. However, the group coach, who is obsessed with teaching classes for the same people, can no longer continue this activity as a cataclysm. This whole thing that's been brought here in two days is unviable. Maybe you can see that they weren't modeling well, overshooting this thing, you can't keep it on the ground of reality. The most irritating thing for me, though, is that when they refer to national interests, because I see that when I want to bring the multinationals under public burdens, you protect these multi-business companies until they're nailed, with non-refundable support, with special support, by not really having to pay taxes. Now we did not ask Hungarian entrepreneurs for priority support, we only asked them to leave them alone at least in their difficult situation so far. I would like to remind you that this is a real two-thirds, these people are carrying the national economy on their backs, and do not take away this possibility from them. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-12-130	Thank you very much. Mr Bence Tordai, Head of the Group of Dialogue, has applied for a second speech. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In these difficult moments, I have some good news and even two good news. The Fidesz fraction has 17 minutes and 49 seconds, and the KDNP Group has 19 minutes and 38 seconds to express its views in this debate. Many criticisms of a general nature and many specific problems have been raised in opposition speeches in recent minutes. With great love and curiosity, we look forward to a meaningful response from about a million people who follow the story as involved. We understand that Csaba Dömötör tried to knock this thing out by saying that when the catapult was packed up with all sorts of other inconvenient measures, the opposition did not vote for this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not true, because it was an excellent package!]] Yeah, obviously, there were, as always, such unsupportable moves in their laws, just as we're used to, so we don't accidentally vote for something really good, but you really can't do a good thing. But let's move on. Run for it, you've got almost 40 minutes. I wonder what Zsolt Semjén thinks when he says it's not about their lives, it's about their taxation. I wonder what Lőrinc Nacsa thinks of the cataclysms and their opportunities in the fall. When Miklós Soltés screams with disfigured head, what does he have in mind? He received the briefing yesterday from Viktor Orbán. They held an emergency incident meeting where the boss said we'd be under attack, but we'd have to hold out the hardest in the besieged castle and the rest. Tell them what kind of training they've been trained, what training they've received, how to protect the besieged castle, try to reason with them. Or Zsolt Láng calm down the citizens of Buda, the many entrepreneurs in Buda, whose mayor was his mayor a few years ago. Tell them he still doesn't look up from his phone; he's obviously very ashamed; we're also curious about Zsolt Láng's opinion on this bill in Buda. And in general, I think every individual Fidesz congressman has five to ten seconds to vote, his belief in yes, no or abstention. We're looking forward to it. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-07-12-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mrs Szabó Timea. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2022-07-12-133	Ladies and gentlemen, Let me confirm at the request of Bence Tordai before me: you have almost 40 minutes left to tell your own voters why you want to destroy them. You are very proud that there are four thirds of the country that have become orange, and you have won more than 80 individual districts in the parliamentary elections. There are 80 representatives of Fidesz and KDNP who represent the Hungarian people in their own districts. Respect them by waiting here for the push of the button to explain how their lives will be better now during the crisis, when the price of bread has increased by 40 percent over the last year, how their lives will be better now by abolishing katás tax. Wait, here's your chance. Speak up. The protestors can't wait to hear it, see if there's any good reason, who knows? Tell me. There are 350,000 people and a million people with families waiting to see why this is going to be good for them. And I would like to ask Zsolt Semjén, as the author of the law, that you published a book of poetry in 2008, one of his poems is "Amenityless." I would now like to read this verse: "Jesus, your bleeding face / Smearing it like lipstick on my face, / As part of my glory, / I am concerned about myself. I'm glad you're saying it with me. * Can I say yes to you / until I say no to myself? / That's how I care about the maybes / I care about my schizophrenic life. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'd like to... [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: That was the first sensible thought! Delight and applause in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you're thinking of a schizophrenic life, let me ask you a question. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: I'll sign it for you!]] I don't know what that schizophrenic life meant. But let me ask you, it might have something to do with you saying that it's a family-friendly government, while you're destroying a million people and hundreds of thousands of families. What does schizophrenia mean? That they say otherwise, that they preach water and drink wine? They're about to destroy families. Speak in the debate of this law. Don't listen to me! You have 88 individual representatives sitting here right now. Here's an answer for the Hungarian people! [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, Momentum, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-07-12-134	From the group of the LMP, it comes from Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-135	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to thank Csaba Dömötör, who, at the push of a button, or Nacsa Lőrinc, who expressed his opinion without pressing a button. I really think it's important that we get to know the opinions of the Fidesz Members. I was inspired to hear about what happened ten years ago, so I wasn't sitting here, so I didn't press any buttons. For example, György Matolcsy, who was the rapporteur of this bill, or Antal Rogán, who is the lead speaker of Fidesz, was here. They both talked about the great need for a new tax on small businesses because it strengthens employment, protects jobs, whitens the economy. For example, Antal Rogán said that this is beneficial for small businesses who, by the way, account for a high proportion of labour costs, so they are serious employers, and here I ask my fellow Members not to underestimate the importance of this. I would like to ask why, now, after ten years, it is still underestimated, and I look forward to Mr Tállai's reply to what chapter of the government programme and the electoral programme we have found this amendment proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the opposition.]]
u2022-07-12-136	Thank you very much. From the Group of the Momentum, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér Group leader follows. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-137	Thank you for the floor. Listening to Csaba Dömötör, I remembered a saying that the Lord gave it, the Lord took it, this is your Christianity. Congressman Nacsa points out to everyone who voted for him, who didn't, as in communism, when people denounced their neighbors, it's probably something hereditary. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I believe that you do not see this decision as such, because in 89 many of you came out of the university in KIS, and then you sat in Parliament, including the Prime Minister and the president of your party, who has never worked in the market in 32 years. [[Eszter Vitalos: Speak for yourself. Nacsa Lőrinc: Fegyőr!]] So it's awfully easy to make decisions that regulate the market, because they don't know what that is. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] They don't know that's what they eat or drink. Next time, fellow Members, when you go to the hairdresser, the nail man [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] When you order food, you'll have to beat your breasts proudly, and please teach the hairdresser and teach the chef how to be a communist. I'm starting to think you guys are projecting at a time like this. [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties.]] Summa summarum, my fellow Members, you are the anthrax of the middle class, the middle class which, by the way, carries this country on its shoulders and without which this economy would collapse. I'd like to remind everyone what happened at the Internet protest. If this law goes through, the Internet protest was nothing compared to what's coming next. Thank you. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Is that a threat? Applause for the opposition.]]
u2022-07-12-138	Thank you very much. From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Sándor Berki is next.
u2022-07-12-139	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, In the spirit of cooperation, if I may, I would like to draw your attention to two things. The first thing that has been said on several occasions is that there is nothing professional about this proposal. Second, if you vote in favour of this law, you will at least prove to the Hungarian people what they can expect in the next four years. In the short term, they will be playing with 400,000 people's livelihoods, but if you can expect them to intervene so quickly and so seriously in the lives of Hungarian people, I hope you will be aware of that, and I hope that the voters will also be aware that you will start on this day on the path of failure. Thank you. [[Applause for the opposition.]]
u2022-07-12-140	Thank you very much. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Máté Kocsis is the leader of the Group. [[Moraj and intervention from opposition parties: Come on, Matthew! The president's gonna ring the bell.]]
u2022-07-12-141	Thank you for your attention, fellow Members. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Timea. Partly to encourage you, partly to perform my duties [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is the beginning of a beautiful friendship!]] And I hope you'll do me the honor of listening to us if you've already demanded our speeches. First of all, I want you to know that we are not going to be involved in any more or less personal activity towards us. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] We don't care... [[Intruder from Fidesz: Silence!]]
u2022-07-12-142	Congressman Szabolcs Szabó! [[Szabolcs Szabó: I followed Mr Semyen!]] Congressman! [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-12-143	I'd like to hear you out. We also have time to listen to your yelling. So it doesn't matter if you read out the wrong verses or even question the Christianity of a fellow Member, it doesn't matter, we're not going to respond to that. Because it deserves more than what you're doing here. What I would like to say to you is that, first of all, we understand what is happening, honourable members of the Government. What is happening is that the opposition representatives who are speaking here are on speaker at the protest they convened and are hearing this. There is such a competition, probably in the spirit of preparing for the elections to the European Parliament, who will receive the greater applause there, which is why we have all these inappropriate speeches. But after the matter is serious, the subject itself is serious, so it is worth noting and talking seriously about it. Therefore, Mr Group Leader Gelencsér, you are a beginner enough to allow yourself to speak in a certain manner, neither in style, nor in your age, nor in your routine, so let me just say... [[Bence of Turdai: It was nothing personal!]] Yeah, I could call it personal, if you like. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Let me just say that if you don't understand what the point of the proposal is, don't talk to him, please, very nicely. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Gergely Harvester: What a rip!]] It's polite, well-meaning advice. First of all, calm down, come out of the bubble you've been in all morning, take a few deep breaths. The catalog doesn't stop. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: Just transform! Deterioration in opposition benches.]] The catalog won't stop. [[Demercation and intervention in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I'll tell you again, the catalog doesn't go away. That's my first statement. My second statement, my dear Francis, is that the people you're sitting next to, the people you started with, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President! Don't do that. Next time, will it be Máté Métés?]] If it were up to them, there wouldn't be any kata at all. That's why I appreciate it when my fellow Member Szabó Timea says we're gonna ruin it... I don't know how many, started at 100,000, then finished at a million and a half. Dear Congresswoman Szabó! If it were up to you, there would be no such form of taxation at all, but there would be 36 percent personal income tax and 19 percent corporate tax. [[Szabó Timea:...To Ripper Lawrence! Applause in the opposition benches.]] If it were up to you, there wouldn't be any kata at all. There wouldn't be any kata at all! [[14.40]] What I would like to say to you now is that after the cat does not cease, we will return to the original intention of... [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] that it should be a favourable form of taxation for retail service providers, let us admit that over the years, it has become a relationship or form of employment law in many places, and after... (Intercoms from the ranks of the opposition.) And after a war situation now, you must have noticed (intercoms from the opposition.) That the world around us is becoming more and more difficult, more expensive, and more and more challenging, as it has been able to do so, this is not the time to do so. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's good, that's good.]] But that doesn't mean there's gonna be no kata, it's gonna go back to its original circle of beneficiaries. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: So it doesn't fit! Okay, that's what you're gonna say.]] Another issue is that those who have just catatized may choose from additional forms of taxation. So I'm asking you not to set a situation as if... as you don't have one, and on the other hand don't make it look like these people have basically lost their jobs. [[Tordai Bence: Tax raise!]] The Hungarian... the tax increase is your proposal. [[Rebecca Szabó: Suppression! Cutbacks!]] Since Congressman Tordai has yelled, I will take the moment here to say that they forgot to talk about it this morning, dear fellow Members, they have listened as to the grave that you have proposed a tax increase of HUF 3240 billion for this year's budget proposal for next year, which you have forgotten to say. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They forgot to tell me. They forgot to tell me. They're not proud of their own supporters. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] They proposed a tax increase of HUF 3240 billion in this year's budget, which we rejected. And let me make some more clarification. On the one hand, we won not 80, but maybe 88 constituencies, more like 90, this is one, but this is the less important one. The other thing is... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Agnes Vadai: I sighed.]]
u2022-07-12-144	Congresswoman...
u2022-07-12-145	It's too bad you don't see Congresswoman Vadai... [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]]
u2022-07-12-146	Congresswoman!
u2022-07-12-147	His voice and his face! The other thing I would like to say to you is that again you are not telling the truth about something important. [[Szabó Timea:]] The kata and kiva weren't a salad law in 2012, comrades, it wasn't a salad law. [[Szabó Timea: Comrades?!]] That was an independent submission. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are not comrades, Mr. Group Leader! Absolutely not!]] It was an independent submission. The kata and kiva were independent bill, not a salad law. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] You knowingly didn't vote for the kata or the kiva. It was a law in 2012. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Don't yell at me, Mr. Tordai. If you're wrong, you can apologize if you're consciously not telling the truth, that's a bigger problem. You have completely thoughtfully rejected an independent, clear bill concerning Kata and the castle. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Once again, if it were up to you, there wouldn't be such a debate today, because there wouldn't be any kata at all. [[Szabó Timea: This won't work anymore! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The last few things I would like to say to you are that you have made a lot of comments that, of course, would cry out after a debate, but do not belong here at all, which we call a summary of only inappropriate insults or personalities, especially what you do to the author. [[A statement from the opposition: Poor! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] But let me respond to one thing in this logic. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, it's too bad she's not here, she says... [[On the sign of Agnes Kunhalmi:]] Yeah, he's here. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Illegally. Intercoms.]] He says... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Congresswoman Kunhalmi says that many poor people live in the 18th century. In the district, a lot of people need it. On the one hand, it's not clear how it comes to Kata, and on the other hand, you don't live there. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And how is that relevant?!]] Congresswoman, I think... [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Yet I was elected!]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Congresswoman Kunhalmi says that many poor people live in the 18th century. In the district, a lot of people need it. On the one hand, it's not clear how it comes to Kata, and on the other hand, you don't live there. (Agnes Kunhalmi: How is that relevant? ! Congresswoman, I think... (Agnes Kunhalmi: Yet I was elected!) You're doing it like that (the president's ringing the bell.) It's like it's some kind of personal experience. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Congresswoman, I ask you to address the debate on Kata. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's just personal now, Mr. Group Leader.]] and leave these personalities concerning the author and our fellow Members. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They are catatoses, the poor people!]]
u2022-07-12-148	Congresswoman!
u2022-07-12-149	And in closing, let me repeat one thing. We would be happy to participate in the debate in which you have taken a meaningful position over the last ten years, but you never wanted there to be a kata tax form in Hungary, never! When we submitted it, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Because there was an Eva! László Varju intervenes. Gergely Harvesto: We introduced it! We didn't want to bring him in so badly.]] they were still against it, now that we're back to the original intentions, they're also against it. Basically, no matter what we do, it's about you being able to oppose something. That's why they got kicked out on April 3rd. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes! Applause in the same place. László Varju: Because of your lies!]]
u2022-07-12-150	Thank you very much. From the Group of Dialogue, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Head of the Group. [[A statement from the ruling parties: No way!]] Here you go.
u2022-07-12-151	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only draw your attention to the fact that you promised that there would be no austerity, compared to this, you say that we would raise taxes on large companies and taxes on the oligarchs, and that we would raise taxes on Tibocz and the Ripper Lőrincek, and instead you would raise taxes on them. Yeah, it's a value choice. If there's a problem and you need more revenue, you're gonna squeeze the working middle class, and we're gonna take the extra profit from global capital and fidesz oligarchs, that's the difference between us, that's true. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] The other day, I left the government out of the mention of speaking opportunities. We are not only interested in the opinions of Fidesz and KDNP, there were quite few, and quite little professional, but there are six economic ministers in the Orbán government! How many are there? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There are none here!]] None! There's a Secretary of State in Tallai instead, but we'd expect those professional answers from him if we didn't have a better one. [[Moraj, interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] which can be given to criticisms so far. We're looking forward to it, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-12-152	Thank you very much. Dear Chief of Staff, On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, Deputy Minister and, of course, he is responsible for the closing. Please wait for that to happen. Thank you very much. [[Gergely Harvesto: We look forward to it! Dr. Agnes Vadai: We're afraid of that!]] The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Mr Ferenc Gelencsér Group leader. Here you go. [[Interjections, murmuring in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-153	Thank you for the floor. I will try to follow the group leader's advice and make a more calm voice, although we may agree that it is very difficult to remain calm in such a situation. But now I'm going to bring in a legal argument in the debate. The kata is also practical because up to HUF 12 million can be billed VAT-free. The limit on the income of the kata would now be raised to HUF 18 million, but I do not see that the tax exemption limit would be amended, that it would also rise to HUF 18 million. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I can't! EU legislation!]] In fact, the part between HUF 12 and HUF 18 million would be subject to VAT; this would mean a change in tax numbers, a VAT return, i.e. additional costs and administrative burden. I think that's a rush. Therefore, they will not be interested in doing effective work above a certain level, as they will have to set a different price for their own services above HUF 12 million, as they will have to calculate the VAT. So they may do something for 1000 HUF in the first nine months, but then they have to do the same service for 1270 HUF. So at least some harmonisation of laws is going to happen! Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-12-154	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. [[Gergely Harvester: Close! Let's hear it. Let's hear it.]] I now give the floor to the Deputy Secretary of State, András Tállai, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Allow me to give you an update on the demonstration mentioned here in this debate first. Telex.hu wrote at 12:14 a.m. about this protest: at the Facebook event of the protest, close to Tuesday morning... they announced their participation, according to the reports of the on-site correspondents, the protest had no specific programme, nor was it planned with speakers. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But, the demonstration, that was the program!]] protesters stood in the air and talked in small groups [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No fours, no sixes!]] Some of them had a banner; the, Do not vote for it. They were chanting rimmus. [[Intercoms.]] Now I would like to continue by saying that Ferenc Dávid in the debate said that there are entrepreneurs protesting, and that there has not been much of an example of this in Hungary. Let's watch the report. A few minutes before 11:00, Momentum President Ferenc Gelencsér started chanting to close the Margaret Bridge [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] then members of the Momentum faction and other politicians of the party shouted, "Come with us!" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: And they're gone!]] Then part of the crowd moved from Kossuth tér to Margaret Bridge, where dozens of food couriers were preparing for the bridge's spontaneous blockade. At the head of the crowd were the momentists, but there was also the Dialogue, including party president Bence Tordai and leader of the factions. [[Interventions from the ranks of the governing parties: Long live! Everyone was there! Intercoms. Noise. Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] How's that? How's that? [[Intercoms.]] That sworn representatives run into Parliament, democratically express their opinion, we react to it, then they run out of Parliament, and they try to get people to commit lawlessness, violations by shutting down traffic, closing the bridge so that others can't travel. [[Intercom from the ruling parties: Instigators!]] [[14.50]] I don't think that's right at all. As far as the bill is concerned, I do not have enough time in the long debate to respond to everything. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, I do. Moraj in the benches of opposition parties.]] And by the way, I thank Csaba Dömötör and Group Leader, Máté Kocsis, who I believe helped in this. But most of the speeches concerned, among other things, why Parliament would accept it in 24 hours. I would like to say that the house rule, the legislative law, makes it possible. [[Defiance.]] to be adopted by Parliament in 24 hours. And the criticisms that a tax law has only six weeks available, I would like to say that, by the way, the law provides for 30 days in the amendment of tax laws, that it must be published, so that it fully meets this condition, and that if I add that it has deadlines on 25 September and 31 October, then I think that it will have enough time for everyone to decide. This law does not prohibit any activity [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No activity whatsoever!]] Contrary to what you claim. He doesn't destroy anyone, and he doesn't take away the freedom of the enterprise. The real argument, as Mr. Group leader said, is that the law will return to its original purpose, the original proposal; for a certain circle, for individual businesses that supply or produce products directly to the population, this favourable form of taxation will remain for them; but it will remain even more favourable than it has been before, since the public burden remains 50 thousand forints/month, and at the same time the threshold will rise to 18 million. There is a solution for those who are out of the scope of the catalog. These are likely to be more than 450,000 people, as more than 450,000 have chosen this. It is possible for them to choose even more favourable taxation where appropriate. For example, Honourable Bence of Turdai, flat-rate taxation. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Flat-rate taxation is up to HUF 24 million. By the way, I'm helping you, because a tax consulting company deliberately didn't write a professional article on 10 December 2021 entitled Flat-rate tax on Kata's behalf from 2022. I suggest that everyone who now attacks this law out of anger should know this law about flat-rate taxation, and you will see that you find in it almost the same favourable form of taxation. The flat-rate taxation was modified in 2021 in a favourable manner, and it will also correspond to the pensioners, and it will correspond to all those listed here: the general practitioner, the shoemaker, the masseur, the first names listed in the calendar. [[Defiance.]] for all: either the kiva or the flat-rate form of taxation will meet this requirement. At the same time, performers, actors and journalists can continue to tax according to the echo, where the tax is 15 plus 13 per cent; they know this very well. There is a choice between kiva and normal corporate taxation, which, by the way, I merely indicate is only 9 percent of the tax rate. It has been said several times that more people leave the country after the adoption of the current law. I wouldn't advise them to leave this country, because in any country they go, they will face higher taxation everywhere. They will pay more corporate taxes, pay more personal income tax and pay more employers' contributions. Dear Parliament, It has also been said that it increases the possibility of a black economy. I believe that it is the current law that many people use to get out of real taxation and have chosen this form of taxation, there are many out of 450 thousand who have chosen it. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame on you! Kálmán Olga and Varju László intervene.]] I'm not saying everyone, but there's a lot of them. For them, this opportunity will now cease. It is precisely that the new law adopted will not increase the possibility of a black economy, but, if Parliament decides to do so, it will repress it. I ask the Parliament to vote with a clear conscience on this law, because it is a just law, and it will replace this tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-12-156	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. It follows from the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, that the Protocol is to be published to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/119/5, and its summary report T/119/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T119/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 171 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/119/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 170 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Agreement on Air Transport between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part, T/287. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/287/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/287/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 176 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/287/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We now have T/152 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. T/152/462 of the Committee on Budgets's proposal for a revised amendment No T/152/463 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that T/152/152. and Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the House of the House of the House of the House of the Speaker. Section 3 (b) refused. [[15.00]] The house rules are 29/A. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Parliament's resolution on the regularity of the amendments, the applicant of the amendments requested the Parliament's decision. These are the decisions of the House without debate. If the Parliament considers any of the amendments to be in order, we must also decide to maintain it. The rejected amendment No 152 is the motion of Mr President Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare the amendment No 152 rejected to be in order. Please vote. [[Vote. Bence of Turdai: Racist Nazi!]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not declare the amendment by 8 votes in favour, 159 votes against and 9 abstentions. The rejected amendment No 153 is also the motion of Mr President Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare the amendment No 153 rejected to be in order. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not declare the amendment to be in order by 6 votes in favour, 166 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments requested by the factions to maintain them. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Article 4 (4) of the MSZP Group Nos 405, 406 and 407; the LMP Group Nos 352, 398 and 399; the Momentum Group Nos 414, 418 and 426; the Dialogue Group Nos 431, 433 and 440; the DK Group Nos 421, 423 and 424; the Jobbik Group Nos 26, 428 and 439; and the Group of Mi Hungary proposed to maintain the amendments 157, 158 and 205. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the faction leaders. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. Amendment No 405 tabled by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 406 is also proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 407 is also proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes to 118, with one abstention. Amendment 352 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 17 abstentions. Amendment No 398 tabled by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 399 is also proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 17 abstentions. Amendment 414, tabled by András Fekete-Győr and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 1 abstention. The amendment No 418 is also proposed by András Fekete-Győr and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 426 is also proposed by András Fekete-Győr and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 17 abstentions. Amendment 431 tabled by Bence Tordai and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 433 tabled by Bence Tordai and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 13 votes in favour, 128 votes against and 37 abstentions. Amendment 440 is proposed by Bence Tordai and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 16 abstentions. Amendment 421 is proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote. Nacsa Lőrinc: Definitely not! Where's the Feri? The president's ringing the bell.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 423 is also proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 119 votes against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 424 was proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 26 is proposed by Zoltán Sas. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 1 abstention. [[15.10]] Amendment 428 was proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 129 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 439 is proposed by Peter James. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 157 tabled by Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 29 abstentions. Amendment 158 is proposed by the President of Novák and Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 6 votes in favour, 151 votes against and 18 abstentions. Amendment 205 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and the predecessor Novák. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 14 votes in favour, 120 votes against and 40 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Committee on Budgets T/152/462. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 57 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T/152/471 submitted by the national Parliament pursuant to the provisions of Act T/152/471 and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Decisions It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 opinion. Accordingly, the final vote is expected to take place next week at our meeting. The next step is the T/583 on the specific tax of small-tax entrepreneurs. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/583/4. Number T/583/5 and its summary meaning T/583/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/583/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/583. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 120 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. P/578, entitled "Rejecting political pressure contrary to the protection of Hungary's economic interests." Final vote on the proposal for a political declaration No 1. Ladies and gentlemen, As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the political statement submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of the adoption of the political declaration. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept P/578. Political Declaration No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the political statement by 125 votes in favour, 52 votes against and one abstention. [[The representatives of DK shall leave the Chamber.]] A member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary will now be elected. The Economic Committee preparing for his election heard the candidate, and in his proposal, acting under the authority of the Hungarian National Bank Act, Dr. Kolos Kardkovács proposes to elect Mr. Kolos as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank with effect from 13 September 2022. The S/591 proposed by the President. We have all been able to get to know the proposal on our website. Dear Parliament, The member of the Monetary Council shall be elected by Parliament for six years by the vote of the majority of the Members of Parliament present. The Parliament shall decide on the personal proposal without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/591. According to the Hungarian National Bank's Monetary Council, Dr. Kárdkovács Kolos is elected as member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Dr. Kolos Kardkovács, member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank, elected by the Parliament by 121 votes in favour, 42 votes against and no abstentions. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear Parliament, Now it is the solemn oath of the elected official and the signature of the oath papers. With all due respect, I would like to ask Dr. Kolos Kardkovács to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr István Tiba to read the text of the oath, and I would ask those in the Chamber to listen to it standing up according to our custom. [[The members of the Chamber shall stand up.]]
u2022-07-12-157	I, Dr. Kárdkovács Kolos, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; I exercise my position as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-12-158	Now I ask Mr. Victor Vinnai to prepare the oath document of Dr. Kolos Kardkovács for signature, and I ask you to sign it. [[It's happening. Dr. Winner Vinnai, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Kolos Kardkovács and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate you on the election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank on behalf of Parliament and myself, Dr. Kárdkovács Kolos for the performance of his work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Kolos Kardkovács was first invited by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, then László Kövér, Péter Ungár, Dr. László György Lukács, Dr. István Simicskó, György Balla, Dr. János Fónagy, Ágnes Kunhalmi, László Toroczkai, Imre Ritter. DK representatives will return to the Chamber.]] Thank you very much. [[15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to disturb the solemn moments of the oath by saying that under oath it is appropriate for a Member of Parliament to stand up and watch, not to withdraw. I think this is unworthy of the National Assembly. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] And all those Members who have done this, please take a look inside themselves. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai to the MPs: Will you, Congressman, please? Don't yell at me. Come here, I won't bite.]] Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, we are now going to take decisions on the adoption of responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Kálmán Olga, representative of DK, I/526. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 116 votes in favour, 42 votes against and one abstention. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, I/530. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 115 votes in favour, 44 votes against and two abstentions. Miklós Hajnal, representative of Momentum, I/536. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 43 votes against and one abstention. Gurmai Zita, representative of MSZP, I/533. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 8 abstentions. Dávid Dócs, representative of our country, I/540. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 46 votes against and two abstentions. Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, I/535. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 48 votes against and one abstention. Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of LMP, I/528. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 118 votes in favour, 48 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/584 put forward by the President All of you could get to know the proposal on the website. I now call on Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-12-159	Dear Parliament, 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 2.]] Point 4 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: Parliament elects Zsolt V. Németh, Fidesz, instead of Zsolt Szabó, Fidesz, Vice-President of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2022-07-12-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear House, I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/584. Mr Szabó will elect Zsolt as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets from among the members of the Committee, as proposed in the Committee on Budgets. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Zsolt Szabó to the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets by 163 votes in favour, not without vote and without abstention. Dear House, Fellow Members! We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[Break: 15.26-15.29]] (President: Dr. Lajos Oláh) Notes: Attila Gelencsér and Bernadett Bakos)
u2022-07-12-161	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats, and we will resume today's session. Dear Parliament, In line with the LXVI of 2021. UNEP Secretariat of the Agreement on the Protection of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds, published by law, represented by the Government of Hungary and the United Nations [[UNEP/AEWA Secretariat]] on the 8th meeting of the Parties to the African-Eurasian Agreement on the Protection of Migratory Waterbirds [[5-9 October 2021 Budapest, Hungary]] General debate on the draft law on the publication of the Agreement amending the Agreement by changing the register until its conclusion. The government referral is T/447. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[15.30]]
u2022-07-12-162	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Moving birds were recorded 3,000 years ago. The ancient Greeks believed that birds were sleeping in winter somewhere along the Nile River in Africa. This idea was only denied by researchers in the 1900s after a parallel was discovered between the changes in seasons and the behaviour of birds. Today, we know that the migration of moving birds is permanent, and even thanks to the work of researchers and technical progress, we can follow exactly where the individual species spend the winter and what routes they travel. The effective protection of migratory birds is a cross-border joint task, since a large part of birds nesting in a given country, such as Hungary, are wintered in another country. Recognizing that the destruction of migratory species of waterbirds and their habitats in the migration system is only possible with international cooperation, on 16 June 1995 the agreement for the protection of African-Eurasian migratory waterbirds was signed in the Hague. The coordinated implementation of the measures provided for in the Agreement will contribute significantly to the protection of migratory waterbirds and their habitats and will benefit from the additional benefits of many other species of animals and plants. The agreement covers research, education, monitoring and sustainable management of habitats. The area covered by the Convention extends from the northern part of Canada and Russia to the southernmost point of Africa. It currently covers 255 species of waterbirds, including many species nesting in our country. The 82 countries that signed the document committed themselves to taking steps to protect migratory species of waterbirds, paying particular attention to endangered species and those whose conservation status is unfavourable. Hungary joined the Agreement for the protection of highly vulnerable species of waterbirds, which was subject to a number of threats during the migration process, in 2003, which was approved by the 2003 XXXIII. It's been announced by law. Unfortunately, last year the eighth Conference of the Parties was cancelled due to the corona virus epidemic, but it is planned to take place in Budapest from 26 to 30 September this year. In so doing, the Meeting of the Parties, as the main decision-making body of the Agreement, shall review the real and expected changes in the conservation status of migratory waterbirds, both in terms of habitats relevant to their survival and in terms of harmful factors, adopt the budget and review matters relating to the financial plans of the Agreement. The purpose of this bill is to request the necessary authorisation to recognise the mandatory scope of the Agreement amending the Eighth Meeting of the Parties by changing the registry and to declare the Agreement. The Agreement shall be published by means of a simultaneous publication of the oral list received from the United Nations and the texts of the oral list to be sent in response from the Hungarian part. Protecting our environment is in the common interest of all of us; it also includes the protection of animals living with us. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-12-163	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, please.
u2022-07-12-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our country is a dedicated leader in flora and fauna protection, so we are happy to support any sensible animal protection initiative. The purpose of this bill is the 2021 LXVI. The request for authorisation to recognise the mandatory scope of the Agreement on the Protection of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds, amending the Agreement between the Secretariats of the UNEP and the Eighth Meeting of the Parties to the Agreement by means of a change of registry, as published by law, and the publication of the Agreement. Hungary acceded to the agreement on the protection of African-Eurasian migratory waterbirds in 2003. Its Secretariat is part of the UN Environment Programme. The programme is an organisation that promotes sustainable development and the coordination of environmental activities, which was founded in 1972. Its broad remit is monitoring environmental conditions, data collection and distribution, as well as promoting international environmental cooperation and addressing unexpected environmental anomalies. Migrating waterbirds are an important part of the biological diversity of our world, so we need to reduce their vulnerability. These species travel long distances year after year, and their natural habitat is a downward trend due to unsustainable human activity, which must be curbed. The secretariat of the agreement on the protection of African-Eurasian migratory waterbirds is scheduled to host the eighth Conference of the Parties in Budapest, the Hungarian capital between 26 and 30 September 2022. Dear Parliament, Protecting our environment is our common concern, so I'm asking you to be Nstv. 7. Paragraph 2 and paragraph 9 In accordance with the requirements laid down in paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, support is given to the proposal to be announced. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] and Article 9 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) In accordance with the requirements laid down in paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, support is given to the proposal Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties.)
u2022-07-12-165	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-12-166	[[His mic won't say.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Madam State Secretary and my fellow Member have already explained the substance of the bill... [[Intercoms: No sound! The speaker's microphone is back on line.]] That's good.
u2022-07-12-167	Perfect!
u2022-07-12-168	Perfect, thank you very much. Madam State Secretary and my fellow Member have already said the substance of the bill. The Eighth Conference of the Parties was initiated by the Secretariat under the UN Environment Programme. This was supposed to be between 5 and 9 October 2021, also in Budapest. For the reasons we all know, because of the coronal virus pandemic, this was cancelled last year, and the conference will be held in Budapest between 26 and 30 September 2022. The venue will be the newly renovated Hungexpo, which has been hosting world events in recent years, thus entering the world's fair, exhibition and conference history. We hope that the present conference will also have a worthy location for the renovated Hungexpo. Due to the change in the date, the agreement on the organisation of the conference also needs to be amended, which is why we are gathered here today in this bill. We Christian Democrats always welcome that if Hungary or the capital of Hungary can host a professional, scientific or international conference. Of course, we support this bill. We hope that in the near future as many sports events, scientific events and international conferences can be held in Budapest, or another venue in Hungary. We will always be happy to support them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-12-169	Thank you, Congressman. He applied for a two-minute speech by Gy. Erzsébet Németh, on behalf of DK. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-12-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to respond quickly to Congressman Nacsa and respond. I think that all sensible politicians and politicians in Budapest are pleased that there are events, sports competitions and conferences in the capital that really enhance the city's reputation. I would like one here, too, and please translate, because I don't see a lot of people from the government in this room, that it would be good if everyone under the leadership of the capital agreed to hold such events. [[15.40]] It's not exactly what the bill is about right now, but, let's say, those big sports events, competitions, world championships, because I think it's appropriate to organize and organize one of these in someone's town, and they'll coordinate there with the leadership of that city. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-12-171	Thank you, Congresswoman. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to László László Keresztes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-172	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This is a very important matter, an important agreement, and it is important to recognise it, and it is also important to have the event that my fellow Member Nacsa mentioned. We are also very happy to watch when Hungary or Budapest can be the home of such prestigious and important events. We obviously support this, and we will also support this proposal. I have one small comment. I think that this debate will be with us in the coming years. The environment, the nature conservation issue, we feel that it's a little fragmented in the governance structure, and we're also sensing some confusion. The case of nature conservation, according to the relevant legislation and according to the Ministry portfolios, is the territory of the Ministry of Agriculture; we can say that water matters, if we want to link them to the Ministry of Interior in a little effort. It is a bit surprising that the Ministry of Technology and Industry notes this proposal, but it was just a comment, but of course the LMP faction will support it. Thank you.
u2022-07-12-173	Thank you, Congressman. For a further speech, as far as I can see, no one has come forward. That concludes the general debate. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the publication of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the control of road, rail and water traffic between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia until closure. The government referral T/519. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-07-12-174	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, At the Hungarian-Serbian border there are currently two railway border crossing points: Kelebia-Szabadka rail border crossing point and Röszke-Horgos rail border crossing point. The railway line for the border crossing point in Röszke is being modernised and the line for the Kelebia-Szabadka railway border crossing point is being modernised in parallel, resulting in a complete track lock at the Subotica railway crossing point from 1 August 2022. In view of international freight transport, the freight traffic passing through here should be shifted to the Röszke-Horgos rail border crossing point, where the checks on freight trains would be carried out between 18 and 6 hours. According to the Hungarian-Serbian border traffic agreement currently in force, not all freight trains can enter the rail border crossing point in Röszke. The current rules do not allow the transport of rail vehicles carrying dangerous goods, nor does the border of plant and animal health work. The smooth flow of freight traffic and the traffic of dangerous goods must also be maintained during the renovation period, which requires the amendment of the existing Hungarian-Serbian border traffic agreement. The Hungarian and Serbian governments have agreed on the need for the amendment. On 4 July 2022, the representatives of the two States signed the amending agreement in Subotica. According to the law on the procedure for international treaties, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the amending agreement, which is why we are discussing the bill now. With all due respect, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-12-175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-176	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the fact that the Serbian-Hungarian border section has been in the news for many years because of unprecedented migratory pressure, this bill contains a technical change in terms of rail freight transport between the two countries. The Agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Serbia on the control of road, rail and water border traffic was signed ten years ago in Horgos, on 24 January 2012. The agreement settles the arrangements for the traffic of the two rail border crossing points between our countries. Both Kelebia-Szabadka and Röszke-Horgos crossroads are being modernised, including a complete track lock at the Kelebia border crossing point from 1 August 2022. This line is the only way the rail vehicles carrying dangerous goods have been able to travel, and the border of plant and animal health has been operated at this crossing point only. The amendment to the original agreement, which is now in front of us, will allow Röszkei to ensure the smooth operation of rail freight traffic also at the crossing point. Despite the migratory pressure, this bill also shows that normal life cannot stop at the Serbian-Hungarian border section. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-12-177	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us amends the agreement on the control of rail, road and water traffic between Hungary and Serbia. Serbia, as the key country of the Western Balkans, home of the strong Hungarian community in Vojvodina, is a particularly important neighbour and partner of Hungary from an energy, economic, commercial, transit and cultural point of view. Last year, Hungarian-Serbian bilateral trade in goods broke a huge record with a 42 percent increase, which represents around EUR 4 billion of trade flows between the two countries. This last year's record-sized volume of trade could grow even further this year despite the war, as Hungarian-Serbian trade traffic increased two and a half times in the first quarter of 2022 compared to the first three months of last year. Another proof of close cooperation between the two countries is that this summer Hungary and Serbia signed a more significant and broader energy agreement, which provides security for the energy supply of both countries. According to the bilateral energy agreement, Serbia acquires 500 million cubic metres of natural gas through Hungary and stores it in Hungary in the next winter season. Serbia has proven to be a reliable and predictable partner based on the experience of recent years, as a significant part of the gas supply to Hungary comes from the south via Serbia, for example over 1.7 billion cubic metres this year. An additional step towards energy security is to increase the electricity supply capacity of Hungary and Serbia. At present, there was a maximum annual capacity of 1 000 megawatts between the two countries, which will be increased by 500 megawatts, and the new pipeline will be built between Sándorfalva and Subotica by the spring of 2028. The next significant step ahead of us in the relationship between the two countries is the modernisation of railway infrastructure, the key of which is the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. With the development of rail freight transport, we take a significant burden away from our roads, and we achieve a significant reduction in pollution; that is why all green politicians must support the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. From 1 August 2022, the railway development project between Hungary and Serbia will enter a new phase, when a complete track lock will be put in place at the Kelebia-Szabadka railway border crossing point due to renovation and upgrading work. In parallel, from 1 August 2022, the Röszke-Horgos railway border crossing point, which has also been renovated, should be opened. In view of the fact that rail vehicles carrying dangerous goods at the Röszke-Horgos rail border crossing point are not allowed to operate and that there is no plant and animal health border order, it is therefore necessary to amend the relevant legislation. KDNP supports the further development of Hungarian-Serbian relations, the modernisation of railway infrastructure and, therefore, the modification of this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-12-179	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I can't see two minutes. He asked for the word of the Crusade Lorn. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.50]]
u2022-07-12-180	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a truly important technical amendment, which I fully support. Obviously, my fellow Members and the Secretary of State have also made known what this amendment is about, indeed, because of the various developments involved. I didn't want to comment on the debate, but it was a very, very important investment in terms of volume, and I think that since it was a relatively long time ago, it might be worth putting this on the agenda again, and here we are talking about this in the context of a very, very, thousand-related proposal. This Budapest-Belgrád railway development, which we know relatively little about, because you have encrypted all related documents and have not made public the documents that might otherwise be about the guarantees for the future exploitation of the railway line. We see that this investment has entered a new phase, but in the next year's budget it means nearly HUF 200 billion, even though we know that from the start of the development, this is about as much expenditure for the Hungarian state, which means the creation of nearly 200 thousand new jobs. In recent years, my colleague Lőrinc Nacsa and I have also argued a lot about this, and we have never received any exact data or information back on how this will bring any economic benefits to Hungary. What is obvious, is that we have always been very supportive of rail development and it is justified to shift freight from road to rail as far as possible, but the condition of this is that any step or development towards sustainability can be achieved in this way, if such a railway is really exploited, not only will it be built, and with its various costs we may just take away resources for the development of other railway lines in Hungary that are much more exploited and to be renovated. My questions relate to this, essentially to Mr Secretary of State, I am very confident that he can give an answer, that the government has kept the documents of the development classified or kept secret since then, so to speak, and it has been revealed that the Chinese partner, the Chinese party, has taken any guarantee of exploitation. We know that Minister Szijjártó has announced here that at some point Hungary will have its own private seaport in the Trieste port area, and he said, Minister, once this port is completed, it will fully meet the transport needs of all domestic companies. What is the volume of transport, what will be the transport demand on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line? The next question is obvious, that even if it happens between Budapest-Belgrád, this railway development will be completed, this expansion of the track, when it is realistic that rail transport may be relevant all the way to the port of Pyreus. So what are the scripts for this? Also, a very, very important question: are we not talking about rail freight, besides the guarantees of exploitation, how exactly will revenue be made for Hungary, how are you planning to manage the transport of goods that you have planned or imagined in large volumes through the Danube? So he's gonna be built, when and with what budget is the V0 rail avoider? Or is there a risk that, if the transport really takes place, it will be transferred to the internal areas of Budapest? Do you have any information about this? Once you have decided on this investment, it has started, but when will there be a real source for the development of domestic railway wing lines and sidelines? You are absolutely right to criticise the operation of governments before 2010 on many occasions; these governments have, in many cases, closed and stopped railway lines. With these, we were not a parliamentary party at the time, but at that time we did not agree, and we also expressed our opposition in its place and in its role. The question is when, after 12 years of governance, you will restore traffic on these shut-down rail lines and when will we get to the point where resources actually appear in the budget for the substantial improvement of the railway sidelines. This is essential, I think, for the development of the Hungarian countryside. I am very confident that these questions will be answered. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-12-181	Thank you, Congressman. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Bence Rétvári says no.]] He doesn't want to answer. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general discussion of the bill on certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and the amendment of certain laws to the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law will follow. The government referral is T/559. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-07-12-182	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the bill on certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration before us, as well as the amendment of certain laws relating to the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, is to maintain the unity of the legal system. The draft contains, in particular, technical amendments corresponding to the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law. As explained above, the role of this bill is CXXVI of 2010 on the capital and county government offices and on amendments to the laws relating to the establishment of metropolitan and county government offices and territorial integration. Revision of the provisions of Law No 13 and the transposition of the necessary regulations into a new law. The bill contains existing regulations concerning the operation, processing and certain services of the metropolitan and county government offices. The provisions of Chapter I of the bill are only provisions which are currently in force which are justified within the framework of this bill because of the repeal of the law cited above. Dear House, The establishment of the metropolitan and county government offices, as is well known, took place on 1 January 2011. The establishment of government offices meant the elimination of the previously fragmented sector-driven public administration and the establishment of a single territorial administration. As part of the government offices, the district and metropolitan district offices were set up in 2013, where government windows operate, the national network of which now provides a one-stop shop for all Hungarian citizens with 314 locations and until the end of the year, according to our plans, the possibility of one-stop shop at 318 locations. Government windows are the gate between the state and the citizens. Prior to the pandemic period, 14.6 million customers handled their business in government windows in 2019, but 11.5 million customers also used the services of government windows in 2021. The bill includes the regulation of the signature model verification system introduced in government windows by September 2021. With the new authentication form, a signatory panel has been introduced in government windows to ensure the authentication of individual documents by the customer by recording the customer's image, dynamic and writing strength data and comparing it with the existing signature in the register. In doing so, personal administration has become paperless in the specific cases of the government window. The bill also contains the rules of the data change management service introduced in February 2022 or the e-reporting service used in communication. This service provides, on the one hand, for easy administration of changes in the data of natural persons and, on the other hand, for the electronicisation and simplification of the utility transcription process. The two service legs of the data change management service are the change reporting and utility transcription services, i.e. user switching services. The change reporting service is a public service to customers of the natural person in the personal data and address register, which allows for a one-stop-shop notification of the change in the customer's name and/or residence or other data to public utility and telecommunications service providers on the basis of the client's mandate. The other leg of the service is the reporting of user change. In the framework of the e-Reporting service, customers can now reach 74 different utility providers, and 35 thousand of us have been using the service since February. [[16.00]] Dear House, The 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law suggested that the general election of the following local government representatives and mayors in 2024 and the subsequent municipal elections should be held in April, May, June or July, instead of October, at the same time as the election of MEPs, so that the votes should be practically set for one day. As explained in the grounds for the amendment of the Fundamental Law, MEPs are not elected on a fixed date, but on the basis of previous practice, in May or June, from which they may be separated by one month, so the joint procedure is possible if the specific four-day time frame for the elections to the European Parliament falls within the April-July period set in the Fundamental Law for the holding of local elections. This spring, on 3 April 2022, we gained good experience on the conduct of the two votes at the same time in the joint electoral procedure. The general election of the members of Parliament in 2022 and the conduct of the national referendum in 2022 confirmed that the conduct of the two processes in the joint procedure fulfilled the expectations attached to it. The organisation of a single date results in significant cost savings, this year's budget saved HUF 10 billion in a specific case. The bill sets out a number of detailed rules in line with these objectives. For example, the amendment states that CLXXXIX 2011 is in office at the General Election of Local Representatives and Mayors of Hungary in 2024. Law, the Mötv. The mandate of the body of representatives and the mayor in accordance with the general rules shall not be terminated, but shall be postponed to 1 October 2024. The proposal also states that the mandate of local representatives and mayors, elected representatives and mayors at the general elections in 2024 will begin on 1 October 2024, i.e. Mötv. 1 October 2024. As above, the draft law provides for CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. It also amends the law that the bodies in office in the general election of the national governments in 2024 are also the body of representatives and the general assembly, and the mandate of the officials and presidents, similarly to the amendment of the Mötv., will not cease under the general rules, but will be postponed until 1 October 2024. Dear Parliament, The draft law also includes changes to the provisions on territorial units of the country in accordance with the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law. In view of the historical traditions and the achievements of our historic constitution, the name of the counties is changed to the county counties. The county is the oldest and oldest institution in the Hungarian state, although it has changed organisationally in the last millennium, but it has ensured the constitutional continuity of Hungarian statehood until the end of 1950 by the communist dictatorship. In the stormy history of the country, the county has in many cases reported the last bulwark of national interest against foreign interests. The use of the word modified by the bill brought back this archaic expression, and it will contribute to the strengthening of the statehood of the Hungarian people's spirit, which protects sovereignty and insists on it. The aim of the draft is to strengthen the national character of Hungarian democracy with unchanged content. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Gábor Pupils, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-12-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, the Secretary of State gave a full summary of the cornerstones of the bill. Indeed, this bill contains substantive proposals for a number of amendments to a number of laws and contains rules for clarification in a number of areas that need to be clarified in relation to previous legislation. As Minister of State has said, one of the central regulatory areas of the bill is linked to the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law, namely the amendment of laws on local governments, minority self-governments and electoral procedures. With the changing legislation, we fulfil the legislative obligation arising from the provisions of the Fundamental Law. The other main area of the regulation is the 2010 CXXVI on Government Offices in the Capital and County. Law. Mr State Secretary referred to the main elements of the amendment and I do not wish to repeat them. I myself confirm, as has previously worked as a leader in the territorial administration, that government agencies are now efficient organisations of the territorial administration, which are not influenced by any sectoral interest, not fragmented, and that government windows fulfil to the absolute extent the function for which they have been created. The regulation, as stated by the Secretary of State, is linked to the signature model authentication system, includes detailed rules related to the data change management service, allowing for data change reporting and for the customer to indicate in his life who the utility provider will contact in the event of his death, and can do so electronically or in government windows. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the rights of nationalities. I highlight the following from the amendment concerning the law. The amendment states with principle that, in the general election of the national authorities in 2024, the mandate of the incumbent bodies and officials, as the mandate of the representatives and mayors of the local authorities does not end according to the general rules, but will end on 1 October 2024. The 2013 XXXVI on electoral procedure is necessary. Amendment to the Act, also in view of the simultaneous observance of the procedure relating to the election of Members of the European Parliament, the election of representatives of local governments and mayors and the election of national self-governments. From this legislation, namely the XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure. I would like to highlight the following from the rules relating to the amendment of the Act. The legislative proposal makes it clear that the appointed members of the electoral committees may exercise their rights in a matter requiring the decision of any electoral committee, regardless of the legal basis for their mandate. The amending proposal, i.e. the amendment of the law, ensures that the roll-list data requested in one election type can be used in the other type of election concerned in the event of overlap. Finally, the amendment gives the National Election Committee the power to refer the objection either to the previously transferred election committee or to the other competent electoral committee, if it finds that it has no jurisdiction in respect of the objections added. The joint, simultaneous electoral procedure also required the standardisation of the redress forum system. [[16.10]] Accordingly, in addition to the ballot counting committees, the functioning of the election committees at municipal, territorial and national level is also necessary. The amending bill contains in detail the powers of appeal of the electoral committees acting at each level. The amendment also covers the details of the transfer, since the content of this legal institution is fundamentally different in the election of MEPs and the election of municipal representatives. If the voters switch to the settlement of their registered place of residence, i.e. they wish to vote here, then they will be entitled to receive both the ballot paper on the local municipal elections, the election of the local government and the election of the members of the European Parliament. However, if the voter does not switch to the settlement of his/her registered place of residence, he/she will be listed at the same time on two lists: he/she will remain in the register of local elections in his/her place of residence, and he/she will be entitled to vote here, while he/she will be transferred to the register of voters designated according to his/her place of residence in connection with the election of the members of the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a so-called salad law before us, as you can see, contains necessary amendments to a number of laws, sets out clarifications in a number of areas to harmonise legislation, and highlights best practice in legislation. On this basis, the Fidesz fraction supports the proposal and the adoption of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. I would ask you to support, on the basis of the presentations, certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and T/559 on the amendment of the Fundamental Law to certain laws. Bill No. 1. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-12-185	Thank you. I give you the floor, Gy. On behalf of Erzsébet Németh, the DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-12-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that when we talk about such a serious law, there are so few people and so few people in this House are interested in this amendment, even though this T/559 bill is about a lot of issues that will basically define and influence the lives of Hungarian people in the spring of 2024. The Secretary of State, in his introduction or in his presentation, or in my opinion, from the lead speaker of Fidesz, or to us, was not a matter of great importance to DK, but neither the Secretary of State nor the lead speaker of Fidesz spoke about the important paragraphs concerning the bill, which, in my opinion, are clearly in conformity with codification, but may not be understood by the citizens. So I will now try to translate it into a language that the Hungarian people will understand exactly what this House will decide when it adopts this bill during the eleventh amendment of the Constitution, the Fundamental Law. As regards the provisions relating to the operation of district and metropolitan district offices, it is good to know and keep in mind that Hungary is the last in the European Union in terms of the digital economy and social development indicator, so Hungary has something to bring in in this area. One part of this is the efficient administration, based on an adequate infrastructure background, user-friendly, well-functioning services, a stable and reliable IT background and now pay attention, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, are prepared, motivated and paid public service officials and officials. The latter, these prepared officials, will certainly not be more satisfied in 2023, as, in the spirit of austerity, the operating costs and personnel allowances of government agencies are seriously cut off by the summary amending proposal submitted to the 2023 budget. At the same time, the interconnection of systems, the simplification of data requests, the broadening of their scope and the increasing availability of public authorities and organisations are all at great risk. Interestingly, while the functioning of the State is becoming increasingly opaque, a significant part of the public interest data is encrypted, which is not, and should be sued from various public organisations, while data collection on citizens and monitoring of citizens are, in DK's view, becoming total. The data protection authority did not comment on the bill, and it could be said that this is regular, since there are no proposals from the government that raise serious data protection concerns, and there is no possibility for the data protection authority to comment on them in advance. The bill also amends the law on the service relationship of judicial staff. Here, my fellow Members, I would like to point out one item, namely that the salary of the Deputy President of the National Court Office will be subject to the rules on the salary of the Administrative Secretary of State and that the amount of this salary will be determined by the President of the National Court Office. The person we're talking about here is the Vice President of the OBH and the Vice President of the OBH, well, this person is the mother-in-law of Minister of Justice Judit Varga, Dr. Mónika Erőss. According to both the OBH and the Minister, it is not incompatible or contrary to the independence of the National Court Office that the Minister's mother-in-law is the Deputy President. In contrast, DK's view is that in a democratically functioning country, where separation of powers means something, such a thing could not happen. In addition, she did not have any judicial practice, and as the Secretary-General of the Curia she participated in the opinion of the draft legislation concerning civil society organisations. At the same time, we didn't hear him protest loudly on the Russian model of the government-critical civil society law, which represents civil society organisations as a stigmatizing foreign agent. Let us now come to the third item that I would like to speak to you about here, and this, as we have already heard from the Secretary of State and from the Fidesz representative, is an amendment to the Act on Election Procedure. Fidesz believes that the European Parliament elections and municipal elections will be held one day in 2024 and does not think about opening Pandora's box. Ladies and gentlemen, You have considered that if this law is adopted unchanged, then what situations are caused by it in the municipalities, whether they are Fidesz-led or opposition-led municipalities. I do not know that you have considered that, when, say, from May 24th, there will be an elected mayor, an elected body of representatives who cannot exercise their rights, cannot take office until October 1st, or which is still in office, but already knows that he will not be in charge of his settlement after 1 October 2024, then what situations will this give rise to there, in each body, in each settlement. In the opinion of the Democratic Coalition, this is nothing but a law that you make, there is no saving here, as the Secretary of State has said; the only thing that is important for you is to continue to ensure their power and concentration of power. The Secretary of State said that they saved HUF 10 billion this year when there was a referendum and parliamentary elections in 2022. I think that if the country hadn't been covered with posters, various Fidesz and government propaganda materials and posters, maybe the country would have saved a few times that. In English: this reason, this argument is not good for putting the representative bodies and the elected mayors in such an impossible position. [[16.20]] In addition to unlimited financial resources and party propaganda disguised as information, a further factor will now guarantee Fidesz a strong competitive advantage for the European Parliament and municipal elections due in 2024. The Democratic Coalition will not assist in this, we will not support this law in any way. At the same time, there is a very important element of this amendment, and this is to further complicate the situation of how and how citizens can vote and to make it easier to commit electoral fraud. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, said when he submitted the law that the adopted electoral law would not amend the electoral rules, but he removed the criminality of creating fictitious addresses with his masses and legalising electoral frauds based on this. Voksturism was fully realised during the parliamentary elections in 2018 and then during the local elections in 19 because it became quite clear that many people only created a home without real residence in order to have the right to vote in that settlement. In the spring of 2024 he was delegated to the local electoral committees, whose party, let's say, has set up an EP list, but it can also decide on municipal electoral matters to be held on the same day, and vice versa. For example, if it is in Fidesz's interest to run behind many local civil society organisations in municipal elections, then in fact many people sent by it will decide on all matters, including in European electoral matters. So, I have to say, he may win a lot of goose pigs. And then maybe the last time I have that much time on the county of the castle, I'd like to say a few more things. If we remember correctly, Minister Lazarus did not like it at the time when Fidesz had already attempted to rename the counties as county counties, and I hope now that the Secretary of State has said well that it is such a traditional name against foreign powers, and I would like to restore it to you by the name of the county. Well, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what kind of foreign powers he is talking about and thinking when we talk about an EU state. I think, Honourable Parliament, that no one can vote in favour of this bill with a good feeling and no one can support it. This bill will cause far more problems than you may think will solve by voting for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-12-187	Thank you. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-188	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill is CXXVI of 2010 on the amendments to the law relating to the metropolitan and county government offices and the establishment and territorial integration of the metropolitan and county government offices. review of the provisions of the Act. On the one hand, the bill contains existing regulations relating to the operation, processing and certain services of the metropolitan and county government offices, the management of county government offices and certain services, and on the other hand, the bill seeks to amend the laws on local governments, national authorities and electoral procedures, thereby creating the proper implementation of the legislative obligation arising from the provisions of the Fundamental Law. As a result of the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law, the general election of local government representatives and mayors in 2024 and subsequent municipal elections will take place in April, May, June or July, instead of October, this should be held at the same time as the election of MEPs. According to the rules in force, the election of representatives of the local government necessarily coincides with the day of the general election of representatives of local governments and mayors, so in this proposal the consistency of three types of elections and the legal, administrative and logistical possibilities of conducting the joint procedure must be established. That's what the bill creates. The bill also includes a change in the provisions on the territorial division of the country, in view of the historical traditions and the achievements of our historic constitution, the name of the counties is changed to the county county. And however-how much I didn't like it, Gy. Erzsébet Németh and everything, like Moricka, came to his mind with the joke that he should try us Fidesz-KDNP for this reason, and I believe that this also brings satisfaction to a large number of Hungarian voters. Ladies and Gentlemen, The main changes to the bill are, therefore, the package of changes to the data changes, the package of amendments to the county law, and more. The package of changes to data changes, the change of data and data management in particular for utility service providers, the administrative service fee in the administrative procedure of the district offices would be the revenue of the government office in Vármegye in the future. On the basis of the client's paper documents, the Government Office of the Metropolitan County has the right to produce a certified electronic copy and would be entitled to carry out the procedure on this basis. Signature model document verification would be introduced, as is already the case with banks. Maintenance of data change and data processing services, data change reporting services and user change reporting services, as the law on this issue is repealed by this bill, but the legislation on these matters is to be kept by the legislator. The second point, therefore, is the legislative package on the county, which I have just mentioned. And further amendments: the rules on transfers will be amended; the local electoral committees will be empowered to consider objections to EP electoral posters; the area of competence of the military council of judges and tribunals will also be changed. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what has already been said in Mr István György's exposé and what has already been said by my colleague Gábor Pupils, the lead speaker of Fidesz, I ask you to support the bill as well as the parliamentary faction of the KDNP. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-12-189	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Louis Löcsei, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group. Congressman, please.
u2022-07-12-190	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Once again, we have succeeded in bringing together laws that are not remotely related to each other. If salad laws could feed a country well, record inflation would not be noticed in Hungary. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The chances of Hungarian teachers, poor families or pensioners getting any fruit or vegetables on the table are reduced in proportion to inflation. But let's not be unfair. There are those whose income is increased by today's salad law beyond inflation. Dr. Katalin Csillam and Dr. Monika Erőss, Deputy Presidents of the National Court of Justice, will soon earn nearly twice as much as they have done so far. While our children's teachers can count how many layers of toilet paper and how many rolls it is worth to buy to be inexpensive, but do not exceed the monthly budget for it, the standard of living of Vice Presidents Strong and Sparkle can increase every year with a multi-week vacation in the Maldives. [[16.30]] Luckily, not only do you have the resources to increase the salary of the Deputy Presidents of the National Court of Justice, but you also have a thorough codification work with which the year 2021 LXXX on the implementation of Budapest's Student City. A technical amendment to the Act will thus be made. Instead of a word, a word is replaced by a word, a word is replaced by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word by a word Fortunately, if you remember anything else about Student City, you can submit something else in the same salad law in addition to these amendments. And of course, we cannot pass the capricles of the salad law in silence: the baptism of the county county. This must be a particularly important element of the government's economic strategy against inflation. For example, in connection with the eleventh amendment of the Basic Law on granite, almost 200 amendments are made to this package, where the word county is simply changed to the county. We understand that, but we can't agree with it. I'm going to ask the lords and women of the government that if you're going to become a prime minister from county to county, then why are you doing half-work? Be an alister and a servant judge again, or perhaps there is something to be done in the area of greetings. The subordinates thank their servants for their superiors, and let our dignified, great, gracious, and considerate words be a part of the address again. And if someone does not do their job well or does not use them properly, then it is possible to challenge the person to a duel so that such rude disrespect cannot remain without retaliation. I hope you feel the irony, and I hope that those who follow this debate feel it, because this proposal is nothing more than a complete diversion, a diversion of real problems; a diversion of problems that hit ordinary voters in the face every day. He hits them in the face in Nagykanizsa, the homeless shelter workers, hundreds of public workers working for food in the small town of Szendrelad, people living in the village of Újharangod, where they still carry their drinking water in a slow carriage, and we go forward, not in the back. And I could tell you more, but one more thing for you: Tarnaörs, Erk, Vissak, Zaránk, Tarnajadány, Tarnabod, who still let their sewage into their backyard because they don't have a sewer network. These are real problems, my fellow Members, which have not been resolved after 12 years of governance, my fellow members of the Government. This basic legislative and then legislative initiative shows that the government is completely insensitive and helpless, while the forint's exchange rate is falling, the Hungarian people's money is being devalued, that is, inflation is accelerating, and living is becoming more and more difficult for millions of our countrymen. Orbán also said in Parliament on 8 June 2006: "I have to say that we have to live with the suspicion lawsuit that there may be some misunderstanding about the essence of democracy, as if someone thought that the election is about who governs it, and that it is a mistake. The choice is actually about where the country should go, what the direction should be, and the representative of the direction chosen by the people should be assigned to the work. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, My fellow members of the Government, you are now pretending that your constituents need the county as a piece of bread, as if you could fill your disgruntled mouths with a salad law. It is possible, of course, that no one has told you, so let me tell you: the basis of the Hungarian people's livelihood is a stable forint, and the stability of the forint depends on the stability of the economic environment. The economic environment will be stable and callable to investors if the change in the legislative environment is predictable and the government is able to create a strategy with its European and international allies. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the parties in the opposition square has shown their support for this salad law, your ally, your comrades, with whom you will hold the hand to vote for this salad law, and this is the racist Nazi Our Hungary Movement; the Our Hungary Movement, which called the Hungarian Roma a biological weapon, which would take away the European Union funds for domestic gypsy, and I might add. They're your comrades, so good luck adopting the salad law. We, the Momentum fraction, can't support that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-12-191	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-192	Mr President, Dear House, If I had been presented so well, thank you very much for the honour of addressing me, I would have responded briefly to this, because perhaps we could not have obtained more praise from an anti-national and anti-life Moment. The speakers before me have already said many things, because today we have heard the test of the great masters of the black belt, and everything has been here, but I will also briefly try to gather my thoughts on the subject and tell you. I have mixed feelings about this proposal to amend the law, because we would be very happy for the countys about our historical traditions, but it is feared that once again we will see Hungary's Fundamental Law transforming into a fundamental law of a party, yet it is to be estimated that we will at least move away from the constitution of the People's Republic. But I suggest to the government, once we return to our glorious past, let us do so in a worthy manner. The term for the county was and has dignity. That's what we appreciate by restoring it to normal. It would be a good start to return the Gendarmerie. We heard first what the countryside of Hungary... [[Louis Löcsei: I also recommend that the serfs be returned.]] That is correct, thank you very much for the words of my fellow Member. So we would like to restore the Gendarmerie because, unlike the Momentum, we believe that there are huge problems in the countryside, the acts against wealth and life are unfortunately now on a daily basis, and this crisis in which we are now, at the moment, is going to become more and more ringed into our everyday lives, and this is going to grow even further. So, as I said, this would be particularly necessary in the countryside, where underpaid, overworked and otherwise understaffed policemen cannot carry out their duties in accordance with expectations. However, the question arises that the renaming of government commissioners into the Archbishop is merely a formality, or their powers will extend to the administration of justice, so that they may, for example, have a rightful question, or perhaps only a synonymous one of the oligarchs. It is important for us to recall our country's past, but we should rather build the future, because we are facing a lot of unresolved problems, such as record high inflation or agricultural difficulties, price-explosion of food or even now the problem of cataclysms, which, unfortunately, will have several years of negative consequences. But if it is a county system, and if we want to return to our historical roots, I respectfully ask my fellow members of the government why we did not do this, say, by returning to our historic constitution, instead of having the Szájer Fundamental Law alive today. Then, speaking of our historic constitution, why did the fifth Orbán government have to say hello to this, why didn't Fidesz think of this before? We have seen the emptying of county municipalities in recent years. I ask you, if you are going to go to the county, and you are going to go to the county county, I think your county meetings instead of the county assemblies so far, what additional rights you will receive, because you will be able to better represent the county counties entrusted to them by the elected representatives. [[16.40]] Speaking of the county, in the case of the county, it is not truncated, but we talk about the whole county. As a former county representative, I have always talked about the county of Nógrád, and I will continue to talk about it, but the number of county counties is either 64, or 72, and it is also stated in your presentation that the use of the word county also serves the idea of national cohesion and the preservation of our common historical memories. Our problem is that, at the moment, we will lose our county in the eastern part of Hungary by practically assisting Fidesz, as the rights of the Hungarian minority will be trampled on two feet in our county under Ukrainian authority. We have seen Hungary support Ukraine's membership of the European Union practically unconditionally. However, we believe that the minimum would have been to impose a very serious set of conditions on this, since we should have simply defended our native and native minority living in the area for at least a thousand years. In addition, we are extremely concerned that local government representatives and mayors with mandates until 1 October 2024 will now be elected not in October, but at some point in May, June or July, but their mandate will still be valid until 1 October, which is worrying because there is a great deal of abuse, and the lack of motivation is perhaps one of the least of these reasons, which we do not consider a good idea, although the part of this saving the Hungarian state is, of course, not possible to be taken away. If we are still in the administrative system, then perhaps it is important to note that, instead of renaming the administrative system, perhaps the first thing that should have been made clear was that civil servants and government officials in 2008, once again: in 2008, a frozen civil servant's salary should have been raised, roughly, say, a XXI. To a century level, not just to a level that follows inflation, but to a level that can show them our appreciation, as they carry this country on their backs every day. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-07-12-193	Thank you very much. We are at the end of the speech, and I do not see a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, please.
u2022-07-12-194	[[???Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt mit der Gesetzänderung Nr. T/559, zu bestimmten Fragen der Tätigkeit der regionalen öffentlichen Verwaltung sowie zur Änderung bestimmter Gesetze im Zusammenhang mit der elften Grundgesetzänderung erörtere.???]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, to express our position at T/559. on certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and on the issues of nationality of the bill amending certain laws relating to the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. At the meeting of 11 July 2021, our Commission held the general debate on the bill and established its position. I would like to quote first from the speech by Mr Antal Paulik on 28 June 2022 concerning the eleventh amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary. The most important element in the collective exercise of minority communities is the implementation of minority self-government elections. The current legislative environment well designates the place of minority self-government elections in the Hungarian public law system. The Fundamental Law XXVII. Article 2 (2) states that nationalities in Hungary may establish local and national minority self-governments. As regards the election day, the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure Law 309/09 §2 contains the following: the general election of the representatives of the local government is scheduled by the National Election Committee no later than the 69th day before the day of the vote on the day of the general election of the representatives and mayors of the local government. Articles 1 and 2 of the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law state that the election of local government representatives and mayors should be held at the same time as the election of MEPs in April-May-June or July of the fifth year following the previous municipal election. At the same time, the mandate of the members of the body of representatives and the mayor is proposed to run until October of the election year. This provision does not include any reference to the mandate of the members and the chairman of the body representing the national self-governments. At the same time, the 2011 CLXXIX summary of nationality rights. The provisions of the Act derive both the term of office and the date of establishment of the newly elected body from the day of election. As the draft amendment of certain electoral and related laws is going to be presented to the plenary this very day, I do not wish to give a detailed statement in my speech on the uncertainties that have arisen, my fellow advocate for that bill will do so. I just want to say that this issue will also have to be addressed by this House. End of subpoena. Well, he's trying to deal with these predicted anomalies, treats the current T/559. Legislative proposal No 121 of which point CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. by amending Act No 136 According to Article 4 of the Act, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Article 167 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 1 is added. (1) This section shall apply to the general election of national authorities in 2024. (2) Where this law gives legal consequences for the election, the final determination of the result of the election or the date of the election, it shall be understood as the first day of October 2024. Finally (3) The mandate of the body of representatives, assembly and president in office at the general elections of the national minority self-government following the general elections of 2019 shall run until 1 October 2024. This is 136. § 2 states that the term of office of the body of representatives, general assembly or president of officials in office in the general election of national governments in 2024 is not terminated according to the general rules, but is postponed until 1 October 2024. The section also states that the term of office of the bodies or officials elected in the general election of the national authorities in 2024 begins on 1 October 2024, i.e. 1 October 2024 at the time of the general elections in 2024. This concerns in particular the completion of the vacant mandate 68. § - ; to declare the transformed minority self-government 71. § 72 - ; for the convening of the inaugural meeting 72 and 87. § - ; the establishment and termination of the mandate of the national government, the body of representatives, 73-75. § 102 and 108 § - ; the obligation to make declarations of assets 103. § - ; on the conflict of interest of the official and member of the minority self-government 106. § - ; to indignity 107. § - ; succession, temporary management and settlement of property 138-142. The rules applicable to paragraph 1. [[16.50]] The existing Njtv had to be regulated separately. 56. § (3):. In the case of the national minority self-government, it shall inform the National Election Committee, by 31 May of the year of the election, of the municipalities where the self-management of the minority community is required under paragraph 1 of this Article. Because the date wasn't tied to the election day. Therefore, the bill is set out in Article 56. In paragraph 3 of the Act, he orders to replace the text until 31 May with the text until 30 November of the year preceding the election. Finally, 137. Paragraph 1 of the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. The Act provides for the replacement of the text of the word "rökszere" for the whole of the Act. I would like to note here that, in the law itself, the replacement of the text of the text of the county in almost two hundred laws is more or less a technical issue, but this means a number of things to do for the national governments and national minority associations, as they have to change their name, their statutes, their court registration, their bank account name, copies of the signature address, stamps, letter papers, envelopes, any official documents, addresses, announcements where the name of the county is present. This will also mean a significant administrative task and additional costs. The T/559. Bill No 174. According to §8 of the Act of XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure Law 307/D. Article 3 is replaced by the following: (1) The nominating organisation shall be registered by the territorial electoral committee or the National Election Committee at which the nominating body has been notified. (2) In an interim election, the candidate or the electoral committee competent to register the list shall register the nominating organisation. (3) Upon notification by the national minority organisation, the organisation shall declare that the organisation meets the requirements of the national minority organisation under the national minority rights law. The electoral committee responsible for registering the nominating organisation shall check the statutes of the national minority organisation in the court register of civil society organisations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, This amendment only means that the previous two paragraphs have been broken down into three paragraphs, but it still does not objectively settle whether the form of the association or the examination of its statutes by the competent electoral committee decide whether it can be registered as a nationality nominating organisation. I'm pretty sure we're gonna have to touch this in the fall. The T/559 we just discussed. Legislative proposal No 177 According to §8 of the Act of XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure Act 162/A. Chapter II shall be added. The transfer, 377/A. § :. If the transferring voter is 250. § and 307/A. (a) if he transfers to the settlement of his place of residence, in all three elections the 307/B. § 1 shall be included in the register of voters within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article; (b) if they switch to settlements other than those of their place of residence, they shall elect the members of the European Parliament in accordance with Article 250. § 4 shall be included in the register of voters, but in the election of local government representatives and mayors and in the election of minority self-government representatives, its place of residence or 102. § 3 in the register of voters. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, This part of the proposal contains the detailed rules for the transfer, taking into account the difference between this legal institution in the EP election and the municipal elections. In the municipal elections, the permanent address can only be transferred to the settlement of the declared place of residence, while in respect of the EP election it is possible to transfer to any settlement. As a result, if a person does not transfer to a permanent place of residence, then the municipal and ethnic municipal elections and the location of the EP election are geographically separated. It is typical of the complexity of the situation that the relevant justification of the bill was, moreover, rightly considered necessary to clarify this situation by setting out a specific example. At the same time, it should be added that the complicated re-registration situation resulting from the merger of elections does not in principle change the local and minority municipal elections, since the rules for re-registration have not been amended and it is likely that this type of transfer will not be significant in ethnicity. However, in the context of the simultaneous holding of municipal and minority self-government elections and EP elections, it is absolutely necessary to stress that this will be the biggest burden and difficulty for national electors, since while the average voters not registered in the minority register will receive four ballots, mayor elections, municipal elections, county assembly and EP elections, the national electors will receive up to three additional ballot papers, municipal, county, county and national minority self-governments, so a total of seven different ballot papers. It is in the common interest of all of us that the elections to the local government, the municipal elections and the elections to the county and the elections to the EP be held as regularly and effectively as possible, with the most complex preparation of the national elections. To do this, I would like everyone's attention and help in advance. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! Thank you for listening. [[Applause.]]
u2022-07-12-195	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Zoltán Kovács on Fidesz for a two-minute comment.
u2022-07-12-196	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, A lot has been said in the lead speakerial round, including something that really doesn't belong to the point. Where is this about phallos rights, greetings we heard in the 50s-sixties, history textbook-flavoured speeches? I don't think that's what this is about. It also occurred to me why now. The fellow Members, although they do not remember very much, in 1990 the MDF tried this historic tradition, by restoring the name of the county, failed at the then SZDSZ. I think it's never too late to restore these historical names. I was mayor in 1990. Then they asked me why you have to change street names now. About a hundred street names were changed in a city of 35,000, where there were streets named after members of the Communist directorium of 19 and Soviet marshals who conquered our country. Then they asked why now? [[17.00]] I think that we owe it to Szent István and Hungarian historical traditions. Of course, to wipe out the past completely, this slogan still exists today, because if we don't have a past, we can't go back to historical traditions, and this might give strength to those who go back to this and pose a problem for those who want to erase it. Let me just give you an example: the Castle District should not be restored again as a beautiful part of our built heritage if it is not broken down, the rest of what is left in the war. The phallos right, it's just a joke. We know that there is no death penalty in Hungary, and obviously, for the Serpents, the 13th. They've had the right to a hundred years, but no one wants to restore that. Or greetings. It's a restoration of a historical name. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-12-197	Thank you, Congressman. No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2022-07-12-198	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I'm just trying to get a few things very briefly. I'd like to pick up where Congressman Zoltán Kovács left off. After the change of regime, everyone remembers precisely that when the legislation created terminology, it became mayor instead of council president, instead of World Secretary, became notary, interestingly, then no one was upset, even though they were the names of an earlier administrative era. Returning to these terms and names, I think there are several reasons why. Here it has been said several times, but Gy. Erzsébet Németh's sentence to my eyes, is, if I quote it correctly, because I said a comment, saying: "The county is the oldest and oldest institution in the Hungarian state, and although it has changed organisationally in the last millennium, it has ensured the constitutional continuity of the Hungarian government until the abolition of the communist dictatorship in the 1950s. In the stormy history of the country, the county has in many cases reported the last bulwark of national interest against foreign interests. I didn't say anything about a job against alien powers, and I didn't want to talk, so I think it was some sort of misrepresentation. Lot. Erzsébet Németh said we didn't talk about the point. It was not important to him that more than 100,000 of our citizens have used the signature model authentication system, 35,000 have used the state change management service, but at the same time it looks at how bad Hungary is in the DESI index, and it is not as bad as Gy. Elizabeth Németh told me. I'm not proud of it. We'd really like to be able to make more progress. Even at the time of Zoltán Kovács' State Secretary, more than 15 development projects have been launched in seven government offices, which we are now ending up with, and if what Mr.Secretary has worked for is enough, I am convinced that we can advance significantly in the DESI index as well. These improvements I've just told you about are all very serious improvements, and if you like, they will make life easier for hundreds of thousands or even millions of citizens in the longer term. We have just introduced the electronicization of travel expenses: it will make life easier for many, 800,000 people. The fact that we are linking different professional systems here is the basis for providing amenities services, because we will not have to ask citizens for information that is available to the state; that is precisely what upsets many people, and all our efforts are to ask the citizen for information that is not available in the public database. But we're only gonna be able to do that if we connect these specialized systems. Of course, not in the way Gy did. Erzsébet Németh imagines, but will have to carry out extremely strict cyber protection and data protection standards, vulnerability studies that will highlight any errors that cannot be implemented in real life without correcting any such system. What was said here about the OBH Deputy President's salary, said Gy. Erzsébet Németh, as stated in the legislation: just as before, the payment of the State Secretary for Public Administration is due. Indeed, there is one such thing that the president may differ in a priority position. It's a question of fairness. They had anticipated that this would be run on such a friendly basis, with hoci-sense; everyone would start on their own. 2024, EP election, Pandora's box said Gy. Erzsébet Németh, the goal is power cementing. The only thing he forgets is that Fidesz is not going to vote here, but citizens are going to vote again. And they're all Gy. Erzsébet Németh, as well as MEP László Lukács, forgets that there was a recent election here. They're trying to pin everything on us here, the weakening of the forints, the global economy, the problems caused by the war, while the voters gave a strong opinion on your operation and your promises during the elections. Let us just say that what we are trying to do and do is definitely what seems to have been capable of persuading Hungarian citizens, and that the government will do everything it can to preserve this trust. He does so now, in extremely difficult circumstances, and when they point out that we are drawing funds from the Hungarian budget, then the Prime Minister made it absolutely clear that the Rezségvédelmi Fund and the Defence Fund must be established, because it is in Hungary's national interest and can protect its citizens. Zoltán Kovács referred to ironic, cynical remarks, and I do not wish to respond to them. He's gone, Congressman, but what opposition party I don't want to protect, God forbid, but he's Nazissing, racist, and the rest... Well, we remember in the election campaign the sentences of Péter Márki-Zay, who he would conspire with from the Nazis to win the election, so owl tells the sparrow he's a big head. Then, of course, the situation will change, it seems, when a comment has to be made in Parliament. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-12-199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, from the LMP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-12-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On Sunday, July 10th, Tass Olga was the second anniversary of the death of an Olympic champion gymnast and coach. On this day we remembered the first Olympic champion of Pécs, and we also launched an initiative. Tass Olga was born in Pécs on 28 March 1929. He graduated from primary and secondary education in the city, started his career as a competitor in PEAC in 1945, then in the BTC in Pécs, so he continued in the leather factory before moving to Budapest. He met the tournament when he was 14, and five years later he won a silver medal with the Hungarian team in the London Olympics. He won the bronze medal at the Helsinki Olympics in 1952, in the 1954 World Championship with a gold handheld team, which was even pushed with a composite silver. In the same year, he won three gold medals at the World Championships in college, then he made the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne, which was the peak of his career, since he won three medals. In this Olympics, he also won the Olympic gold medal as a member of the handheld team. After that, he competed until the 1960 Roman Olympics, where he and the team became seventh. Tass Olga took part in four Olympics, won six medals, one gold, three silver, two bronze medals. In 1951 he was a teacher at the College of Physical Education, in 1978 he received a degree in gymnastics, in 1981 a master's degree. From 1960 to 1961 he was coach of the Újpest Dózsa, then from 61 to 68 he was coach of the French gymnast team. Later he became a teacher at the College of Physical Education, the Hungarian women's gymnast and coach of Vasas and then the Budapest Honvéd. He was an international scoring judge between 1979 and 1989. Tass Olga married Lemhényi Dezső Olympic champion water polo player in 1953, spent fifty happy years together. Lemhényiné Tass Olga died on 10 July 2020. [[17.10]] Tass Olga was connected to his city with a thousand winds, we know from various interviews that Sallai, who lived in Ferences Street today, had a carpentry plant there for his father, and he also told us in the interviews that he had been in training on a bicycle and how much the city meant to him. We know that Pécs moved back to Pécs after his higher education and was still teaching at the commercial secondary school, and he had a very difficult time getting away from the city of Pécs. In honor of his memory, we propose that the competition street gymnasium inaugurated in 2018 in Pécs should bear the name of Olga Tass, the first Olympic champion of Pécs. We believe that with this step, we can present a worthy memory to this great sportsman of Pécs. Of course, we informed the Hungarian Federation of Gymnastics about this initiative, and we informed Pécsi Sport Nonprofit Zrt. I wrote a letter to the state maintainer of the gymnasium, asked the mayor of Pécs to support the case in a letter and, of course, to contact the State Secretary for Sport in a letter. It is clear that this decision can be made at national level, but I think that we can agree on this not only in Pécs, but also at national level, that this would be a worthy step, and that we can preserve the memory of Pécs's first Olympic champion, Olga Tass, a great sportsman, a great coach. So we are very confident that our initiative will come to an end as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács applauds.]]
u2022-07-12-201	Thank you very much. Dávid Dócs also applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2022-07-12-202	Thank you very much for the floor. The subject of my post-meeting speech is: "We drink as our national treasure." I have already mentioned the drastic drought that has hit the country, during which our largest agricultural areas have been endangered, and which has taken such a measure that in many places our natural rivers have dried up and our wells have dried up. Water is not only the key to our existence directly, but also indirectly, because agricultural crops will only produce enough crops if the earth's water content is high enough. But now, due to drought, watering cannot water most of the land in the absence of watering and irrigation systems, so under the current circumstances, we cannot expect many crops, which is a serious problem of national strategy. This is also a big problem because in agriculture we should never think from one year to the next, but from one year to the next, and who feels that drought does not cause such a problem, he will face the future of how much he was wrong, because the less Hungarian crops are placed on the market, the higher the prices will be on the shelves of the shops next year. That is why it is necessary to help those working in agriculture and those living in it as quickly as possible to fight even less with drought, as often the activity they do is not paying off. Drought only increases the number of problems that producers and manufacturing industry face every day. Proper and prudent water management is the key to a good crop at any given time. That is why we consider it important to give responses to the situation that will lead to sustainable water management in the long term and serve as the basis for all this. Minister of State Zsófia Koncz said yesterday that there is enough water in Hungary, the problem is that this water is barely available to agricultural areas. However, we believe that this could be easily solved by, say, building valley dams or flood reservoirs, from which irrigation canals and sprinklers could be used to bring water to desert land. At the same time, we do not consider the conversion of land that can be cultivated and has plenty of water resources into solar parks or manufacturing sites, and we would like to express our reservations as to why no effective progress has already been made on this issue. It is important to point out that our country loses three balatons of water a year, which is why we should be more responsible in allocating the existing reserves. Water utility networks also play a major role in this, where it is not uncommon to have half a century of wires in place for the population. Thus, the damage, the pipe breaks, which are not even repaired, will follow, causing a considerable amount of water loss. These equipment should be upgraded as soon as possible. I could give you a lot of examples here, but I personally submitted a proposal for amending the budget for Emőd and Nyékládháza, but these have already been rejected by the Commission, as well as my proposal for improving irrigation systems. The aid of 4.5 billion between 2018 and 2020 does not nearly cover the reconstruction or reconstruction of these water networks for municipalities. Water is a rare treasure, which is why we recommend that the government not save where there is no room for it, and start laying the foundations for water management as soon as possible and complete reconstruction of the country's water utility facilities. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-07-12-203	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. Thank you for the work of the Members still present, and thank you also for those who helped to lead the meeting. The meeting's closed.
