u2022-11-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 14th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Bernadett Bakos and András Aradski, who will be arriving later, will be helping me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain land laws until closure. (Dr. András Aradski takes his place) in the notary seat.) The government referral is T/1846. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Allow me to give a special welcome to Minister István Nagy, we are discussing a very important law. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2022-11-11-1	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The bill before you proposes to amend 11 laws in the field of land legislation. In my speech, I briefly summarise the most important content of each of the amendments. Today's critical issue is the preservation of water and water resources as a limited natural resource. In Hungary, the length and number of water scarcity and drought periods are typically increasing, while falling precipitation is becoming increasingly unpredictable and uneven. The protection of both water resources and soil is constitutionally protected. The issue of water retention should therefore be dealt with by law in accordance with the requirements of constitutional interest for the protection of agricultural land as a limited natural resource. As a result of the amendment of the Land Protection Act, the use of land for other purposes will be exempt from the ex post contribution of the real estate authority if natural water on the soil results in permanent water cover that is necessary and justified for water management purposes. In such a case, the rules governing the reporting of land change will apply, as a result of which the farmer may, at his discretion, retain inland water on his land and retain it for the purpose of irrigation to be carried out later, without doing so against the protection rules. In addition, following the amendment, temporary other uses will not be considered to be temporary cover of water naturally appearing on the part of the land, even if this entails an obstacle to the completion of agricultural work, provided that the duration of the continuous cover with water does not exceed one year and that the area is legally marked in the real estate register. By amending the Forest, Forest Protection and Forestry Act, we want to ensure that state-owned forest buildings, which have been present on the land for many decades, not uncommonly for centuries, can be listed in the real estate register, but that the documentation required by the rules of procedure in force today is no longer available or never prepared, since the legislation in force did not provide for it at the time of construction. It is also part of the amendment of the forest law that, in view of the rational management of the state's assets and the needs of local farmers, it is possible to privateise forest lanes which do not exceed 10 hectares, which are not connected, but are patchy or linear. These areas are typically small-scale groups of trees or forest forest protection zones with a private environment, needing to be acquired by neighbouring farmers for game damage control or other farming reasons, and public forest farms cannot effectively farm them due to their significant distance from contiguous public forest areas. By amending the National Land Fund Act, we are planning to introduce a new method of exploitation for the protected grassland and grasslands. The National Park Directorate may conclude a lease contract with the former land user by means of a nature conservation designation for such land, if it has used at least 80 per cent of the areas concerned before, has not committed any breach of contract, has no overdue debts, has not been established against it, and has, in respect of the land requiring grazing exploitation, the maintenance, care and thus the supply of the conservation treatment with a grazing livestock. The new treaty can be concluded for 25 years, but, given the nature of nature conservation, it can be terminated under stricter conditions than the general rules. The rules for the exercise of the right of pre-emption in order to speed up the process will be changed in the auctions for the sale of land over 10 hectares. Therefore, in the course of the sale by auction, the right to pre-purchase may be exercised without delay, not during the suspension of the sales contract, but by making a purchase offer equal to the participation in the auction and the highest valid bid offered. It is necessary to amend the Mountain Community Law in order to ensure the functioning of the Mountain Community system as an interbranch organisation, according to which at least one wine-growing plant must operate in the area of the mountain village, since, in the absence of this, the members cannot choose a wine-growing producer from among themselves; in the event that this is not fulfilled, it must be absorbed into another mountain village. Mountain villages form mountain village councils, in which elected delegates represent their interests. The national organisation of the mountain villages is the National Council of the Mountain Communities, which consists of delegates from a vineyard section and a wine section of the Mountain Municipal Councils. In the mountain council and in the HNT, delegates carry out the professional support activities defined by law and decide on specific sectoral issues. The bill amends the method of calculating the votes of delegates with voting rights in the High Community Council and one section of the HNT. Unlike earlier, the new method of calculation will not allow the individual delegates' votes to be identified, thus ensuring that decision-making is free from influence. The basis for calculating the vote is changing. The delegate shall have one vote not on the basis of each 1 hectare started but on the basis of each 100 hectares started, which shall be calculated on the last day of the wine year preceding the decision-making on the basis of the area registered by the judges. The pandemic has also had an impact on the renewals of mountain communities over the past two years, making it significantly difficult for organisations to make their current decisions. [[9.10]] The amendment introduces a single five-year electoral system, which significantly stabilises the system of delegates of mountain councils, wine-region mountain councils and national councils, thereby strengthening the organisation of public bodies based on representative decision-making. In 2023, the mountain communities hold general elections and renewals. In order to ensure a smooth conduct of the elections, the transitional rules should specify the possible duration of the elections at each mountain community organisation level. The draft provides for the possibility for officials of mountain communities elected after 1 June 2022 and, in the case of their representatives, the term of office to be extended for the same period as officials and representatives who obtained seats in the general elections in 2023. As a result of the changes to the land traffic rules, the definition of a local and local neighbour is changed. If the subject of the sale, replacement or lease contract is a land registered in a vine-growing branch, then a natural person who has lived for at least three years in a wine-growing settlement belonging to the area of operation of the mountain village in which the land covered by the sale, replacement or lease contract is situated has also been resident locally. Neighborhood status will require at least one year of existing neighbourhood status. For buyers and pre-buyers, it appears as a guarantee rule that if the land covered by the contract on the transfer of ownership is affected by a land-use contract in force or has not yet entered into force at the time of the contract, the contract shall include information on the duration and consideration of land use. It is also a guarantee that the record of the fact of the ongoing sale will become automatic. The rules governing the examination of the proportionality of the purchase price are amended. The transaction price of land other than forest shall not exceed the average purchase price established locally and adjusted for inflation by more than 10 per cent without reasonable reasons. To this extent, a derogation is possible only if the land concerned has such beneficial properties as the location of the land, the quality of the land, the value of the golden crown, its irrigability, cultivation, accessibility from the road, but it is not possible to take into account uncertain future events and at least partly the circumstances depending on the buyer's decision and risk taking. In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is included in the provisions of the law that the person whose life-style residence meets the condition of a maximum distance of 20 kilometres may be subject to an enforcement auction. It was also proposed, for reasons attributable to the Constitutional Court's decision, that, even after the legal termination of the lease, the former tenant would still be entitled to the right to pre-lease if he had already exercised it legally at the time of his previous lease, but for reasons beyond his control, which could not be attributed to him. The right to pre-lease shall be granted to the former tenant only if he exercises his right to pre-lease as soon as the right to exercise ceases to exist. In order to ensure a clear application of law, it is noted that the rules of the Civil Code relating to the transfer of contracts cannot be applied in respect of land use contracts. In the cooperative, cooperative members and employees, in the public economy, the possibility of amending the law on the right of ownership of land under land-use rights and amending certain land-related laws is created by the amendment of the Act on the settlement of land-use land-use land ownership by the cooperative members and their heirs who have been injured by the failure of the participating public bodies to provide land-use land-use land-use land-use funds to employees. According to the compensation rules, the cooperative members and employees in the cooperative were entitled to receive 20 golden crowns of land per member of the cooperative, cooperative and state economic staff, but the land to be released must be located outside the protected natural area. Where a protected natural area has been issued in breach of the legal provisions, the infringement has subsequently been settled in such a way that the ownership of the person receiving the land application has been removed from the real estate register, but the compensation of the person thus injured has not been made for any other property or money, in which case no legislation has so far allowed the remedy of the failure to comply with the State, but it is a constitutional requirement to compensate the persons thus injured. The amendment of the Law on the liquidation of undivided common property in the land and the settlement of property registration of land holders also allows the sharing of closed garden properties with a structure in the event of a full settlement. Practical experience shows that the 90-day deadline for the sharing process is short and therefore the amendment increases it to 120 days. The provision that in such a case the consideration must be paid to the executioner, who pays the part in addition to the claim to the owner or arranges for the cancellation of the enforcement right, should facilitate the process of acquiring the ownership shares which are subject to enforcement rights. If the value has not yet been established in the implementation procedure, at least the amount of the valuation bid and, in the case of a final estimate, the amount included therein shall be paid in any event. On the basis of an amendment to the Act on the transfer of holdings, in the case of the application of a period of cooperation between the economic transferor and the transferor, ownership of the holding shall be transferred on the last day of the cooperation in order to succeed in official proceedings and in grant policy procedures, thereby facilitating the realisation of the general succession. A clear provision should be made that the contracts between creditors and the economic transferor are valid for the holder of the holding as a result of the general succession, which need not be amended in the notary instrument, and that no special fee for the amendment can be charged. It is also necessary to recognise the transfer of property rights in the Economic Transfer Act, taking into account the fact that property rights are also part of the economy. The amendment makes it clear that the use of land owned by the economy transferor but used by third parties cannot, mutatis mutandis, be allowed by the economic transferor to transfer land to the economy transferor. In order to protect the economic operator and to ensure the completeness of the real estate register, the request for a record of the fact of economic transfer will not be optional but become mandatory. An application for a modification of authorisations for the holding shall be made at the same time as the consent for the transfer of ownership instead of the official approval of the contract in order to cover existing official authorisations at the current time and shall not be required to amend the contract for the transfer of the holding due to a change in the licence from the conclusion of the contract to the completion of the contract. [[9.20]] Finally, the amendment of the Law on the settlement of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association clarifies that protected natural areas in national park or public forestry property management from among the public areas cannot be used for compensation by land application. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, you can see that the amendments under discussion help the farmers or businesses concerned in their everyday lives. I would therefore ask my fellow Members to discuss and support the adoption of the bill on the basis of the reasons given. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-11-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman György Czerván, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, please.
u2022-11-11-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Your Honour, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! In the national expozee Minister presented in detail the bill, which can be called a land salad law, as it amends 11 laws in relation to the subject of land regulation, but he has undoubtedly found such current problems as the issue of water use, the exploitation of protected pastures or the value of the sale of land. In my keynote speech, I would like to review these timely proposals. There is no need to use dramatic indicators to justify the serious lessons that farmers have learned from this year's weather. We therefore welcome the fact that in the bill, the government has taken account of the secondary legislation on the water balance of the land, which is only linked to the problem, but can make an effective contribution to facilitating the conditions for irrigation management with appropriate correction. So far, land protection provisions have seen inland water as an unnecessary bad phenomenon which hinders the proper use of land in agriculture and obliges the land user to eliminate it. However, the bill proposes a turnaround in this view, when it leaves it to the farmer's decision that if he considers water cover to be useful for a shorter or longer period of time on earth, earth protection rules should not be an unavoidable means of eradication. Of course, the official role of the water authority and the land administration should not be ignored in addition to the farmer's position, since the interests of users in neighbouring or neighbouring areas must be taken into account, because the impact of water governance affects only one farmer in the rarest case. The amendment therefore provides an opportunity to apply the results of the degree management used by our old predecessors, which we have deviated from due to the considerations of the most efficient use of land, but which we can safely consider as good practice in the past. Dear Parliament, The State's failure to comply with itself is replaced by an amendment to the forest law which lays down specific procedural rules for the real estate registration of the bodies present in the public forests. Both public credibility and accurate property records require real facts to appear in official documents. Understandably, however, we cannot demand the application of today's rules for a decade or centuries ago construction, and it is therefore appropriate to exempt from those provisions. A new method for the exploitation of land under state-owned and national park property management is introduced by the lease of land under a nature conservation designation. In my opinion, it is a stable guarantee that, on the one hand, other known and tested land users may be involved, whose farming has already been monitored by the national park, and, on the other hand, those who have demonstrated a nature-damaging attitude will be excluded, whether it is from a simple breach of contract through a fine and from any harmful behaviour to the extent of a serious crime. The requirement for grazing livestock for land use supports the management of livestock, in particular by providing predictable and stable land use over the long term for a contractual period of 25 years. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the right of pre-emption in the exercise of public land auctions will not only speed up the sales process, but will also provide the parties with a transparent way of getting to know and immediately know about the pre-buyer's registration. Therefore, it will not keep the winner of the bid uncertain for a longer period of time that he has a candidate in the area, but will immediately find out with whom the transaction will eventually take place at the auction site. I also consider the unification of the rules of mountain renewal to be an outstanding and important element of the bill, which is essential for the cyclical renewal of the system. The same management of the mandate of the officials strengthens the legitimacy of the organisation, makes the representation activity more effective for both members and outside the organisation. One of the significant results of the new establishment of the mountain community in 2012 was the creation of conditions for interbranch organisation, which has proven to be a viable self-regulation tool in the hands of members to address market disturbances. However, the fundamental condition of this is that the producer and processing sectors, i.e. vineyards and winemakers, should be reflected in the membership of EU law. With the precise definition of these concepts a few years ago, the legislator defined the subjective conditions, but now it is also necessary for the organisation to state that the combined presence of these two sectors is essential. Dear Parliament, With regard to land traffic regulations, I would like to mention the clarification of the concept of a local and local neighbour, which can further prevent many local debates. It is a guarantee to both the buyer and the pre-purchase holder that the amendment must include information on the duration and consideration of the land use in the event that the land subject to the contract on the transfer of ownership is affected by a land-use contract in force or has not yet entered into force at the time of the contract. We also welcome the change that, if the procedural rules on the exercise of the right of pre-emption have been infringed during the suspension, the entire approval process need not be restarted and does not entail a loss of several weeks of time, but the Land Administration can remedy the error by ordering the re-exposition of the contract. However, I suggest that the relatively long 60-day suspension period be shortened to 30 days, thereby accelerating the procedure. The fact of the ongoing sale on the ownership sheet has so far been recorded only at the request of the parties, but this is useful information which should be carried out ex officio in all cases. I consider it a useful amendment from the point of view of the application of the law that the proportionality of the consideration of the sale will be determined on conditions that are easier to examine. The use of the method of comparative market data in a possible court procedure will also facilitate proof of the assessment of outstandingly high transactions and the examination of the individual deviation from the average locally established value, the analogue transposition of the criterion established by the judicial practice for the purpose of the wage. [[9.30]] We create predictable conditions for both customers and pre-buyers, taking into account only objective circumstances. In the context of the pre-lease right that can be exercised by the former tenant, the bill incorporates the constitutional requirement of the Constitutional Court, according to which a former tenant is entitled to the right to pre-lease even if he has legally exercised it at the time of his previous lease, but his exercise of the law has not resulted in results for reasons beyond his control, which cannot be attributed to him. This is fair to a farmer who is disadvantaged outside his own self-image and can help to improve the stability of the land use system. By amending the law on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields, it will be possible to share closed garden properties where the building or building in the real estate so far has been an obstacle in the event of a full agreement on the division. In this case, there should be no harm to the interests of one of the owners, but at the same time they can apply the favourable rules for sharing. Indeed, according to the provisions in force, the 90-day period available for the sharing procedure is in many cases too short, and I consider it a good amendment to increase it to 120 days. Finally, it will provide additional assistance for the ownership shares subject to enforcement, that the consideration payable will be clarified and that it should be paid to the enforcer and, in return, the executioner will ensure that the burden-free payment is made. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, By adopting the key elements of this bill, I believe that we can amend the legislation on earth in the right direction, which can serve the development of Hungarian agriculture. I propose and ask all of you to vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-11-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Barkóczi, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, As our fellow Member Czerván has already mentioned, the so-called salad law before us wants to amend 11 laws, but we feel that whoever is in any way related to domestic agriculture obviously knows that the biggest news of this week is that Hungary's strategic plan for the common agricultural policy has been adopted by the European Commission. It is true that the date announced in some places at the beginning of September was a little slippery, but at least this agreement was reached. [[György Czerván applauds.]] Obviously, there are no people living in agriculture who wouldn't have heard about it on such channels. The strategic plan of the CAP includes direct sectoral support of HUF 2485 billion and the use of HUF 2891 billion for rural development, 52 percent of rural development funds, i.e. almost HUF 1500 billion for economic development, agricultural and food investments over the next five years. From this budget, as we know, for example, the objective of achieving by 2030 the objective of increasing the agricultural area's activity rate by 53 percent of the gross added value per hectare, i.e. EUR 862. The question is, of course, how valuable it is for the neighbouring countries, who are our agricultural competitors. I would also like to ask Minister how much you think the gross added value per hectare will increase in the surrounding countries. However, the bill before us clearly contains points that are forward-looking and can be voted on, and this is not questioned by the Democratic Coalition Group. There are some changes that are necessary, but we also have questions that we would like to have answers to from Minister in the closing speech or even sooner. At the same time, we believe that this is not enough, because since spring, it is unacceptable to say that farmers are not refueling at an official price, but at a normal price, and this additional cost is then added to their products. Since summer, we have also said that drought has caused terrible damage to crop production. We asked the government to fill up the Compensation Fund, but this has not happened to this day, and even payments have not been made. Minister, what I can say is that while we are debating here in Parliament, farmers are constantly struggling to survive. If, therefore, these changes are not made because of some interests being served, then some amendments to the bill can be supported. At the same time, I'm asking you when you're going to give some tangible help to farmers. In addition to 40 percent food inflation, the new food price stop is obviously just a Band-Aid, there is no statement that the price stop would reduce inflation and even generate inflation in certain products, for example because of the 2.8 percent milk price stop, cheese is brutally expensive. In fact, it has already been announced that newer price-stops may cause potatoes to disappear from stores, and this morning's news is that in some stores, only 30 eggs can be bought from this price-caped egg. At the same time, domestic potato cultivation can cover and satisfy only half of the consumer's needs and the rest must be replaced by imports. The question of how this official price stop can be adapted, for example, to potatoes imported from abroad, is going to be enough potatoes at all. So we would like not only to help farmers at a legislative level, but also in a noticeable way, because there are necessary legislative amendments, I say once again, we do not dispute this, but if they help farmers, they obviously also help families, because the products that Hungarian farmers produce will still be bought in shops, perhaps even cheaper than official prices. Now the questions, Minister. The first relates to Article 5 of the Land Protection Act. In the case of an unlicensed destination, Article 2 of the Act states that the customer is obliged by the real estate authority to restore the land in its original state if ten years have not elapsed from the date of the unlicensed use until the opening of the non-licensed recovery procedure. My question would be: the legislation to be amended did not originally include these ten years: what is the reason that this was included? Article 6 According to §, in the same law, because of the amendment, the government is authorised to lay down detailed rules for the use of soil improver and treated meder sludge in agricultural land in a regulation. I would ask the Minister when the Government will draw up detailed rules for this and when it will be determined. Amendment to the Forest, Forest Protection and Forestry Act 9. §2 of the Act states that the territorial size has been increased, with which land exchange or exchange for the purpose of holding is possible for the purpose of the establishment of an optimal state estate structure. That's five acres so far. Why did it turn into ten acres? There was no reply to this amendment in the general justification. The third is the amendment of the National Earth Fund Act. Article 12 § 2 provides for how the National Centre for Earth Affairs exploits the land section belonging to the National Fund of Earth. There was an addition here, plus text added to the amendment. I would like to ask you why it was included with a contract for the establishment of a right of trust in a public service under the Public Service Trust Foundations Act. Also in this law is the 14th. I'd like to ask you a few questions. This legal place provides that the body responsible for the conservation management of protected natural areas may, in the event of the combined existence of certain conditions, conclude a lease contract, or a lease contract, in respect of a plot of arable land linked to a grassland-based land, which is part of the National Land Fund of asset management, and which conditions must be fulfilled by the contracting party, without a public tender, by means of a nature conservation designation. I would like to make a suggestion here. We would recommend that the 20th. Paragraph (b), (2) (b), (d), (e) and (f) of this Article should also appear in a uniform manner, and I ask why it is necessary not to apply to the public. [[9.40]] Article 15 is replaced by the following: § also provides in the same law that the Government Policy Council will decide on matters defined by law if the combined tourist value of the land or parts of the land covered by it reaches HUF 5 million. The general justification states that this should be done in the light of a significant increase in land prices. I would like to ask the Honourable Minister how much land is worth 5 million forints at the moment. The Sermon on the Mountains Act 6. Paragraph 8a of Article 8a provides that, instead of the last three closed wine years, only in the closed wine year prior to the date of election, the grounds for refusal against the candidate person listed in that paragraph shall be examined. I would also like to ask what practical reason is that we are not looking at the last three years, just the closed wine year. 28th of the same law. Article 25 of the Act states that in the case of the National Council of the Mountains, the law is to be regarded as a matter of urgency. It simplifies and clarifies the calculation of votes, in accordance with the amended text of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the wine-growing settlements in the administrative area of the mountain settlements which constitute the council of the mountain village of the delegate, on the last day of the wine-growing year before the decision-making date, on the basis of the area registered by the judges, it shall be entitled to one vote for each 100 hectares started. The calculation of 100 hectares started does not change the voting rates so far in the case of the National Council of Mountains. Is there a calculation that the calculation of 100 hectares started does not change the voting rates so far for the National Council of Mountains? That's what I'd like to ask the Minister. Article 30 of the Law on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land §2 of the Act contains provisions relating to the consideration of the land provided for in the contract of sale, but as a beneficial feature it is not possible to take into account uncertain future events and at least partly the circumstances depending on the buyer's decision and risk taking. However, it is subjective and generalizing that the uncertainty of future events and, at least in part, that depends on the customer's decision and risk taking, because, for example, irrigability is a matter of decision and risk taking. We believe that this wording should be improved or clarified. Finally, Article 38 (1) (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) § 2 states that the bill amending certain laws relating to the operation of the territorial administration, the real estate register and the territorial development is CXLI of 1997 on the real estate register. Law 23. § 4 is amended as of 1 January 2023 in such a way that, in the case of forest-based properties, land-rating procedures, i.e. quality class and cadastral clean income, will not be established in the future. In view of the fact that the value of the golden crown in the forest alone does not reflect the real economic value of the forest, I would ask whether the amendment will result in more or less fines than if they were compared to the golden crown value. These are my questions, therefore, and I look forward to Minister's reply. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-11-11-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Béla Mihálffy, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, As has already been said here several times in the debate, the bill before Parliament contains amendments to 11 land laws. The submission was submitted by CXXIX of 2007. It also amends the law laying down provisions on the exploitation of agricultural land, protection of land, land certification and soil protection. The amendment of the law has become necessary, as it has become a critical issue of today's protection of waters and water resources. We, the people of Szeged and the sandbacks, experience every day that the frequency of water shortages and droughts is increasing in Hungary in addition to the increasingly unpredictable but intense rains. The main aim of Hungarian water management is to increase the amount of water withheld in the country, which makes natural water retention solutions increasingly important, and therefore special land protection rules need to be established in cases where maintenance of natural water cover is justified for irrigation and water management purposes. In order to ensure water retention on land, differentiated rules will be established in the Land Protection Act. In the case of naturally maintained water levels in water-covered areas, a distinction should be made as to the suitability of the agricultural land concerned for use in agriculture between areas which are constantly affected by water and areas that are periodically water-borne. If a land area is permanently covered by naturally occurring water, it will not be suitable for agricultural farming in the longer term, so other uses can be realised in this case. The amendment of the Act exempts this case from the conduct of the protection of land and there is no need for the subsequent consent of the real estate authority, provided that the retention of water in the area is necessary and justified from the point of view of water management. The relevant rules and exemptions are set out in the advice of the Water Management Board on water-covered production areas. The proposal includes the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. Amendment to Law 20, which lays down a new one-off system of real estate registration until 31 December 2026 in order to ensure that the real estate registration situation of public forest bodies established by public forestry companies and their predecessors, which have been managed by forestry for decades, can finally be resolved. The amendment became necessary because the lack of construction official documents for decades and, in some cases, centuries of superstructures created legal barriers to the current real estate process. With this amendment, the real estate registration arrangement includes the indication of the superstructures as separate property on the maps and the registration of the property rights and other rights relating to them. The proposal includes the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. the amendment of the law. The National Land Fund Act ensures the management of state-owned land resources in accordance with rational and land-ownership policy objectives by promoting land, the ecological conditions of agricultural production and the exploitation of economics and profitability, and by promoting the establishment of a modern land organisation based on family farms. Thanks to the amendment of the law, the land belonging to the National Land Fund will be used more efficiently. Three completely new titles are set out in the bill. In the case of the forest owned by the minority of the state, the ownership community can also use the forest by creating the. A contract for the establishment of a trust law assigned to a public service mission codifies the exploitation under the Public Interest Trust Foundations Act. The purpose of the bill is also to shorten the otherwise long land supply process without prejudice to the statutory rights of pre-buyers. This proposal also contains a number of clarifications and additional provisions which have become necessary on the basis of the practical experience of recent years. The bill includes the 2012 CCXIX on mountain villages. The amendment to the Act also addresses the problems encountered in the application of the law in relation to the electoral system of mountain communities. [[9.50]] In the last two years, the elections postponed due to the pandemic were only held in 2022, with the result that the mandate of representatives of interest representatives and public bodies elected in each mountain village expires at different times. The basic rules of each mountain village also establish different electoral cycles, which makes decision-making in the mountain community system significantly difficult. By supplementing the Mountain Municipalities Act, a single five-year electoral cycle will be introduced, which will stabilise the system of mountain councils, the councils of the wine region and the National Council of the Mountain Communities, thereby strengthening the organisation of public bodies based on representative decision-making. The proposal includes the 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land. It also amends the law and amends the law on certain provisions and transitional rules relating to this law in order to ensure uniform interpretation of the law. In the amendment, the conceptual framework was formulated in the light of the issues raised in the application of the law and the interpretation of the law contained in the Curia's very forward-looking judgments on land and the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court. In addition, the proposal for a law on land ownership of land under land use rights in the cooperative and amending certain land laws in the year 2020 is addressed in Section IV. the amendment of the law. The amendment of the Law to the partial compensation for damage caused by the State to the property of its citizens in 1991 XXV. In the course of the application of law, it seeks to compensate people who have suffered damage and have received land benefits. In some cases, the ownership of the person who received the land application has been deleted from the real estate register and the person thus injured has not been compensated with any other real estate or money. In these cases, there is currently no legislation to remedy the failure of the State, but it is a constitutional requirement to allow for compensation by law for persons who have suffered such damage. LXXI of 2020 on the liquidation of undivided common property on land and on the real estate registration of land holders. The law will be amended in order to remedy the problems encountered in the application of the law and the rules for the abolition of the undivided common property in the event of succession with effect from 1 January 2023 will be re-established with an amended content. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The amendment of the Act clarifies the provisions of the Law which will enter into force on 1 January 2023, in order to facilitate the implementation of the general succession and the protection of the parties involved in the economic transfer agreement. In the year 2021 CXLV on the settlement of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Co-operative. The amendment to the Act clarifies the use of protected natural areas in asset management, namely that protected natural areas in asset management cannot be used for compensation by land application. I believe that the bill contains eligible initiatives, which is why I ask you, like the KDNP fraction, to support the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-11-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, Indeed, a very long, very important bill comes before the House. Indeed, Minister, he has explained in detail the 11 legislative proposals that we can say are contained in the Land Salad Act, from which we are particularly interested in the bill for the conservation of waters and water resources, which, I think, is indeed a serious problem today. In front of me was Mr Mihálffy, my fellow Member from Szeged, but there is also a Secretary of State from Csongrád-Csanád County, and if we are talking about the South Great Plain, whether it is the county of Békés, the county of Bács, it has become a truly worrying question today, especially given the weather conditions behind us, about how water supplies can be solved and how to fix water supplies. So I think this is a very, very important issue for all of us, especially, I say once again, in Szeged, South Great Plain, Csongrád-Csanád County, so we consider the issue of water retention to be particularly important for us to regulate at a legal level. I say in a low and loud way that we should focus not only on legislation in the future, but also on practical implementation, in addition to the development of measures to promote water supply, whether it is the construction of reservoirs that will ensure, first of all, once again, water supply or water retention in areas where this is justified. In the Forest and Forest Protection Act, we consider it appropriate that the ownership of the bodies owned by the forestry authority, which have been established exclusively in the state forest, should be settled and that the entries relating to this property registration and related entries should be entered in a normal area. The bill also attempts to make more efficient use of land belonging to the National Land Fund, but also regulates problems related to the electoral system of mountain communities, the settlement of the ownership of the land under the land rights of the producer cooperative, land use rights, the rules on the transfer of agricultural holdings, or the elimination of the undivided common property on the land. Let me talk about the latter a little bit more or longer. In order to prevent the emergence of new, undivided common-owned plots of land, I think it is a fully-appreciable objective, and we can basically support this, but the class agreement of fellow heirs should not be enforced, but rather assisted by tax and support policy instruments in our opinion. The application of the coercive measures contained in the motion constitutes an unjustified limitation of ownership, which may, on the one hand, prejudice and violate the freedom of free provision over property and, on the other hand, cause significant impairment to owners and may further impair the land use structure. Thus, it is not acceptable to strive that, if the heirs cannot or do not want to conclude a class deal, their share of ownership cannot be entered in the real estate register. In particular, much damage can be caused by the planned legislative provision that, in the event of a class settlement, heirs are obliged to sell inherited land within five years. In fact, they exclude their right to lease their inherited land, thus providing the opportunity for local farmers, who, for example, do not have the funds to buy new land, but only to rent it. The measure, in consultation with host organisations and professional organisations, is likely to undermine the land use and opportunities of legal persons forced into the rental system, in addition to constitutional concerns, thereby hampering the competitiveness of agriculture. In the case of land inheritance, however, land may be leased, and on sale, the buyer cannot lease the land thus acquired, but is obliged to cultivate it himself. [[10.00]] Overall, we can therefore say that the bill before us is highly eligible, but at the same time for the relevant part, which I explained in more detail, which is otherwise covered by Article 60 of the Act. §2 of the Act contains, we have tabled an amendment, I repeat, in consultation with professional or host organisations, that we ask that this section should be omitted. We ask the Government to consider this amendment and, if you can support this amendment, I can tell you that we can fully support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2022-11-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Bencze, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-11	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We have looked over, we have read the law, we have discussed with our experts, and I am pleased that there are passes in this proposal that apply to the present, although we feel it is a bit of a retreading law, not even a salad law, because with the water management section, with the natural water cover, we are a little too late, I feel, especially in the sandback and in the Great Plain, because there is natural desertification there at the moment; but we agree with it, we agree with it, we agree with it, and I ask you to go in that direction with a next law, with a proposal for legislation: water leveling within water retention. That requires artificial artifacts on several rivers. Let's go to desertification and stop it. As I told you yesterday, I was on the sandback, and I can show you a simple example of what happened. The former surface hunter, so that farmers can water the wild gamers, is eight meters deep, had to deepen the crater to reach the ground water. Talking with livestock farmers, this groundwater level once had two digging tracks deep. We must definitely do this, but we certainly welcome the fact that this is the traditional degree of management, the traditional Hungarian farming methods or the XXI. His 100th-century impressions are beginning to come true, so this part should be supported. We are amending several laws with this one proposal, and I am particularly pleased that it is located in the forest in forestry areas, especially with regard to the state, the structures that have been built for 50, 100, 200 years and do not comply with the current construction regulations in any way, can be registered in a kind of lightened register; but I would like to draw the legislator's attention to the fact that this does not exist only in this area. Anyone who knows my birthplace, the Dunántúli Hill, where I live, we also have many of these buildings in other agricultural areas, which have never been marked for cartography. Countless farmers have problems with beach cellars, cellars, related, typically small economic buildings. Not part of this law, but I would like to say that I would like to sit down in the Committee on Agriculture and discuss this and discuss how we can find a solution to this. This is a problem for a lot of people right now, what to do with this building. For such a building, the land office registration of a body for a small farmer, an individual farmer, is a much bigger problem than a forest farm. What was also a special pleasure here in the law was that we had a little ahead of the future, so that we could call the fragmented, undivided common property that would be in succession, to prevent them from being created. But let's think about the present a little bit. What's going on with the small estates right now? They are circumstantially circumstantial, especially in the context of so-called tsz allocations, there have been a lot of small areas where the legal costs to invest, the follow-up, are simply not worth as much as the land. This is where I would ask for help for farmers, since these typically small estates are wedged in among the big ones. In education, they create obstacles to many things, because they have a fictitious owner, but they are never available. At the same place, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are parts of the estate where the owners, based on birth records, have long passed away, for several decades, and this must be settled in Hungary. Not in this law, but in another, but it is also a real problem, which creates the same ownership obstacles to people as the registration of the superstructures and their real estate facilities in the forestry sector. We must take action here, and Jobbik proposes that a comprehensive land reform, a real estate registration reform, be carried out where they will be filtered out. After all, with the possibilities of modern technology, it is highly likely that the person who can no longer be with us by means of the average age can be identified. If a farmer encounters such a problem, there should be some simplified procedure for him to acquire property there, especially if it can be demonstrated that his neighbour or even his own own own owns it forms part of an undivided joint. I know there is a possession procedure, but it is often not worth it on a small estate, with a much larger procedure, and we would like to ask for simplification here. The law, by the way, is precisely because of the things that point to the future, precisely because it adapts to the 21st century. It adapts to the challenges of the century and is supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Thank you. [[Dr. István Nagy applauds.]]
u2022-11-11-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Rebecca Szabó, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-11-11-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This legislative amendment makes people feel very mixed, especially if they have been dealing with agricultural legislation and the Fidesz government's land actions for a long time. To be honest, I am relatively pleased to see that at the beginning of the legislative package there is a positive step in inland waters and in fields with inland water or swampy areas that try to help them not to have to drain water immediately, so that the water in the inland water and the water in the landscape is not a necessary evil. Thank you for this, and this is indeed a good direction, and, by the way, Minister, you spoke about this at the committee meeting the other day. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that, on the one hand, I hope that this step will be followed by further steps, because when we talk about the early spring, end of winter water, which appears in the landscape, how to keep it there, it is just a small step in this direction. It is also very important to hear slowly about how they plan to spread the spring floods around the landscape and keep them there. The other thing is that the water management board, the water management board's expertise on these issues, will play a major role. Again, I wonder how the Ministry of Agriculture can, I don't know, influence specific opinions, but how the framework in general can be influenced by the Ministry of Agriculture on the basis of which the water boards form an opinion. I see a problem here, and I see that obviously there are very progressive viewpoints in the water issue, but the general way they work is still the drainage of water from the landscape. If the Ministry of Agriculture makes such a rule, then, I think they can easily fall into a situation where the water business will think that it must be carried out. For me, cooperation between wallets and coordination between wallets is a serious issue. I'm talking about this with the intention of real concern, not of bullying. Unfortunately, I have also often encountered situations where even individual national parks who no longer have authority have been faced with water for a long time, and certain conservation objectives cannot be achieved due to the attitude of water. I think it's a positive step, but it's a little risky in this respect. By the way, my personal opinion is that water would be better off at the Agricultural Ministry, but obviously it's not my... [[To intervene:]] That way, you could, yes, go back, because it's strongly connected to the landscape. However, in the rest of the bill, I would like to highlight two things, which are part of me that is concerned. One is the change on forest protection and forestry, where the superstructures are concerned, and the fact that in old buildings, as it has been said, there is no need to comply with certain land registration rules or land design. [[10.10]] I can only think of one thing, but I'm gonna want to know the answer to where hunting houses like this belong in this regard. It wasn't so long ago in the press that there's a hunting house next to Cavalry Brewery that's been renovated for a lot of money. The press also wrote that I do not know that Sándor Pintér's former economic interests belong to this hunting house, and that it was also announced that they wanted to capture a large area there on the border between Lovasberény and Nadap from the local people, and there was a small conflict. It occurred to me that it couldn't be the result of all these, I don't know, ever more beautiful and growing hunting houses, hunting castles might expand or become larger, say, in these forests, if any. I don't know, maybe it's the fact that you don't have to take into account the exact meaning of the land ban. Then will it be possible here that they will be able to sell them later, that they can privatize them, that they will bring material benefit to someone? I think, however, that this is at least an opinionary part. It may be possible to use it for positive things, but I am taking advantage of the suspicion lawsuit that there is a serious risk in this, and that, regardless of any regulation or authority permit, constructions that may not have been built for 200 years have been owned only, say, in the last few ten years, and are owned by a group of interests, even close to Fidesz, so that it is possible to escape from the legislation, which makes it absolutely inappropriate that such structures may become legal in the forest. And my other problem is the amendment to the National Earth Fund. In fact, the fact that certain areas can be rented without a tender by means of a nature conservation designation, I would not support anything that would reduce transparency. However, the various amendments to the National Earth Fund Act have raised serious problems in the past. We can see that farmers living on the ground have been wiped out many times. The protected areas must obviously be cultivated according to the corresponding criteria, which is otherwise included in the proposal. By renting them, a pasture, a reaper, there is no problem in itself, but I do not understand at all why transparency, transparency should be reduced and thus allocated in an opaque way to the tenants. With another amendment to the law, you have begun to privatise protected areas, which I know is only for the time being in areas excluded from cultivation, but this is definitely a bad sign for me. By the way, I have already indicated that we will be attacking that amendment in the Constitutional Court, so I find it very harmful. In this proposal, this applies only to lease payments. I very much hope that these opaque areas will by chance not be included in the privatisation circle. So I can't support this part of this bill in any way. Thank you.
u2022-11-11-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dávid Dócs, the lead speaker of the group of our countries. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-15	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, I think that if there is an important and fundamental point in legislation, then the law we are discussing is one of the most important, because the land resources and the land fortune of the country are the foundations of the state and the nation living on it. The bill we are discussing now contains, as has been said several times, amendments to 11 laws, which include, of course, good and necessary formal or formal amendments, but there are also serious changes in content which are more worrying and, ultimately, it would have been better to negotiate them separately, since the correction and the substantive change are two distinct categories. According to our country, the most pressing problem is that as long as the water supply and the soil are protected by the basic laws on paper, we will in reality become deserted, and the Hungarian lands will fall into the hands of aliens and foreign citizens. The Csongrád-Csanád County case where the representative of Mi Hazank County, Zsolt Laczkó, suggested to the general assembly that the internal water protection systems that have been used to drain inland water should be used to restore groundwater. They contacted the Water Management Board, and the Csongrád-Csanád Vármegye General Assembly supported this proposal with a full chest width. So, thanks to God, he seems to be able to move in the right direction. Thus, it is right that the government's aim is to protect water and water resources, in respect of which we can finally enforce the interests of natural water retention, raising the level of water in the soil, restoring water management, and in this case, in contrast to solar parks and non-natural multinationals and battery factories, we can support the use of land for other purposes. Areas which are thus constantly covered with water and are excluded from agricultural exploitation if they are privately owned and are claimed by the owner should be redeemed or exchanged from the land owned by the State. It is good that, in order to prevent countless abuses, the ceiling values of the agricultural land will be set at a legal level, and the purchase price on the premises will be different by about 10 percent, except in other cases, and it is particularly welcome that this package of laws will provide virtually favourable conditions for livestock owners. In my speech yesterday in the debate on the national environmental programme, I pointed out that the practice that gives foreign investors the opportunity to buy land is unacceptable, since it is a matter of national strategy which owns the land. Most of the time we get the answer that EU agreements bind the hands of the Hungarian state, and it follows that the territories of Transdanubia are already in foreign hands, with a hand that is not Hungarian, who does not live here, and who does not benefit from this country's activities. I also consider it to be a fundamental error that resources which are only available in limited quantities are not treated as strategic property but as simple marketable property. At first, only the areas below 3 hectares were sold from the land ownership of the Hungarian state, and now even those under 10 hectares are under a hammer, from which, according to their cultivation branch, forests are the largest part, which can be managed effectively already in such an area, so their sale is not justified in particular. In particular, not in the light of the strict rules of the forest management law, these provisions will no longer have to be applied to property owned by the State and property management of the Private Limited Company, as defined in LXXXVI of 2021 on the takeover of certain home creation tasks by charitable organisations. According to law, the MRI Community Housing Fund is not owned free of charge by the Nonprofit Limited Liability Company. What does that mean in Hungarian? This means that this can also cause serious abuses in Hungarian. And the fact that the sale of some 6788 land that has now been sold is just a blur on the cake, is justified by the organization responsible for the sale of the land, the National Centre for Earth Affairs. As with previous land sales programmes, the properties offered for sale also serve to clean up the portfolio of state assets, since the state sells the properties typically located in small-scale, private-owned lands. These areas are mainly available to owners of neighbouring properties and to partners in the case of undivided joint ownership of real estate. This is partly right, of course, because the undivided common form of ownership is a hotbed of problems. It is therefore to be welcomed that they will be removed by inheritance, whereas the State and the NFK could choose to switch land from sale to acquisition, as has been the case in the case of forests, or permanent leasing, which could be done by way of tender, as in the case of the sale. [[10.20]] Not to mention that in many cases, the exercise of the right to pre-emption is not a direct neighbour, but a third person who has more qualified priority. So, like the previous land sales programmes, which were justified by the transfer of Hungarian farmers to the land, but in most cases the land was transferred to the hungry large owners, it is all about getting money from the state, because if that had not been the main reason, the Hungarian State could have stayed at the long-term lease, as it has been for many years. This is particularly true in the light of the reasons also set out in the NFK's statement that the corona virus epidemic and the Russian-Ukrainian war have highlighted that food supply is a strategic issue, one of which is soil. And indeed, that is why it should be preserved, and farmers could also be put in a position through a lease or a long-term land programme. Instead of selling, our country prefers shopping, because instead of spending on Vodafone, Hungarian land assets could have been enriched. All the more so, since it is the responsibility of the state to protect the Hungarian land, we believe that the state should exercise its right to purchase the most powerful pre-emptive property in every land acquisition transaction in which it wants to acquire foreign ownership. That is why, if you, my fellow members of the Government, really care about the Hungarian land, the Hungarian farmer, the food supply, the self-determination and ultimately their country, you will support the amendment that we have tabled to the bill. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-11-11-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I, too, believe that we have a very important bill ahead of us, and that this bill is important not only in itself, but also the subject that these amendments concern. I agree with the previous solo that preserving our natural resources, providing them for future generations, protecting water and the earth, can ensure the future of the nation. If we can't solve this issue, if we can't get on with it correctly, if we can't see the challenges we are facing now, and what the right ways of our activities are, then we will lose this fight, and we will basically pawn the future of our children. I also think that the most important issue in this package of laws is that, and in the debate, it was felt from the various comments that it was the issue of water, the provision of water, which is perhaps the most important challenge in Hungary today. This is why, for me, it is alarming to hear statements from the government level, not from the Minister's side, but from a different perspective, that we are doing well in the field of water, because unfortunately, I hear such statements from pro-government politicians; also that we are a water power, and as if we do not have anything to do with this question. I am also very concerned about the fact that when the government tries to put economic sectors in a position, it will give Hungary a future, or it will try to tailor us to become, for example, a power of battery manufacturing. This is also of great concern to me, because it is basically about giving our water resources to foreign companies, foreign investors, and even to state aid. We can see in what volume investments are made, with incredible energy demand, terrible water demand, with risks of pollution, environmental destruction, and not only with its risks, but also with its signs, we can see it in the Göd region. We can also see the critical situation of the water utility sector, which again shows that, on the one hand, drinking water supply has become virtually uncertain in the medium term in Hungary, and that, in this context, the protection of our water resources and the protection of water bases are also at risk. So we can see that a comprehensive system of problems is emerging in the area of water or in the context of the waters, on which I think it is a water crisis, which is much, much more challenging than the energy crisis, and it is a much more serious challenge to act in this situation now than it is also an important issue for the energy crisis to find the right solutions. Here is one of the key problems and the key task is to find the right direction for water management. Over the past few days, we have been talking more and more about this issue, and in the last few days, we have also talked to Mr State Secretary about it, and I think that we have taken important steps, on the one hand, the more and more times this issue comes about it, not only in Parliament, but also in other forums, we are talking about it more and more, and I think that we have actually started to explore the problems. This is also what I see in this bill, however, that what appears as a way of allowing such an administrative facilitation of the retention of naturally occurring water on the land is a very, very important step. It's obviously a first step, a necessary step, but it's not enough in itself. So we certainly welcome this and consider it important. However, I can say, Minister and fellow Members, regardless of whether they are pro-government or opposition representatives, that I have still listened with mixed emotions to this debate and to the comments. I feel, Minister, that the wording of this problem has appeared within the Ministry, its weight is felt by the Ministry. Thank you very much, Minister, for coming to the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and for nearly three hours, I think that we could have a pure policy debate. This is very forward-looking, and I think it's right that we can sit at the same table and sit at the same table with people who are farmers, who are professionals, university teachers, and we talked about these issues. There, I think that we have seen a vision, supported by a thorough documentation and calculations, that this water management, which is taking place today in Hungary, leads to what disaster. This was started with current regulations, river regulations, and water management is still in place today, and the consequence of this is that we lose three ballatons of water a year, so that much more water flows out of the country than is coming in. So we are still draining Hungary, and Hungary is drying out. The effects of this can be seen, of course, in the context of the increasingly harsh drought situation in agriculture. So the critical situation that farmers are now facing, the agricultural society has faced, Hungary has faced, by the way, I think that it was a very, very harsh signal, that things are going in a very bad direction, and that there is a need for fundamental changes and a fundamental change of perspective. What we've been seeing for a long time on the sandback is desertation, which is an amazing example of this. And, indeed, it is such a late alarm bell that there is a need for a fundamental change of direction and a change of perspective. I think that the steps have been made, the right directions that we need to take. And what we are talking about here is basically a change of perspective, instead of water drainage, water retention, but it is also very important that the right approach is to keep water in the landscape and in the soil. So I still sense that the weight of the problem has already been perceived by the decision makers, perceived by various professional stakeholders, but the right direction is still a bit foggy. I am still hearing watering, and in the speech of the lead speaker we heard that keeping water would be the right thing to do from the point of view of watering. Now in Hungary, about 1.5 percent of the production areas are affected by irrigation, and according to government plans, this would be 6 percent, so obviously this is not a solution. It can also be quite clear to everyone that watering the desert is useless, and that will do us no good. If you can't fix the landscape, if you can't get the water back to the landscape, if you can't fix it, then irrigation won't help anything. For such a consideration, it cannot be right to build gigantic artificial artifacts. If we're thinking of taking a stairwell, I think it's a very big mistake. So the experts have already proved with calculations, so these are numerically traceable scenarios, that if we think in water staircases, if we think about raising rivers, it will bind the deposits, it will accelerate the flow of rivers, it will deepen the water level in the lower sections, and it will mean speeding up drying. This can't be a solution. If we think in reservoirs, in such open-color reservoirs, with the very amazing loss of vaporization, it is once again a step in the wrong direction. This may also be relevant at certain locations under certain circumstances, but this cannot be the solution. I think you should see here that you really need to be able to keep the water in the landscape, the once water-walked areas, the former floodplains need to be able to fill again with water when the excess waters arrive, the large waters arrive. So that's what my questions are about. In addition to the debate, the step in this bill is correct, but what are the perspective steps? Here, Secretary of State Farkas pointed out that there will be decisions before the Parliament, what are the plans of the government, so that water management can move in this direction, that water retention in the natural landscape? Or are you thinking river regulations, water escapes? Or are they just thinking about irrigation? This is very, very important to see what direction the government is thinking. [[10.30]] I believe that there is a need for further discussions, further social and professional discussions, so that these scenarios can be as clear as possible and spread as widely as possible within the governance structure. I still miss the idea of a unified approach to water management, and indeed, as my fellow Member, Rebecca Szabó, has to play a huge role in this. So I don't want to give ideas about the reform of the Ministry structure, because what we can see here is that the government is facing challenges here for a relatively important ministry, I think none of us knows exactly whether or not there is a minister, but it is certain that somewhere here the Ministry of Agriculture must be the epicenter of this kind of thinking, and I am very confident that this openness will continue to be seen by Minister and his staff. So I can say that, as Chairman of the Commission, as Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I will continue to urge these professional dialogues to take place. But I think it is very, very important that we get answers to these questions and that we can see what real scenarios are in front of the government, in which direction they are about to move. I think we don't have much time to think, we can see how critical we are. I am very confident that water management will turn in the right direction in Hungary, and I repeat, I am thinking of natural landscape retention and keeping the waters in the landscape here, not gigantic artifacts, foreign artifacts and reservoirs. I have great confidence in the Minister's positive response and that the positive and forward-looking professional and policy dialogue that has started over the past period will continue, and I will be fully partnered in this. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-19	[[???Köszönöm. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrter Herr Minister Nagy! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich die Meinung des Ausschusses in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlags mit dem Titel „Über die Änderung bestimmter Gesetze in Bezug auf Gelände” mit Nr. T/1846 erörtere.???]] Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, Allow me to express my opinion on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on the amendment of certain land laws, T/1846. About the bill No. 1. Our Commission has requested this bill and package of laws to be a national agenda because it deals, among other things, with CXLV 2021 on the settlement of the situation of persons seeking compensation for the operation of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association. also by amending the law. This is the law that was passed almost exactly a year ago by T/17427. The National Assembly, Solymár, Pilisszentiváni, and once Swabian understand: it dealt with the remedy of property violations in German settlements in Hungary. A year ago, since it was submitted at the time after the meeting of the House Committee, we were unable to request this bill as a minority agenda, so the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities could not negotiate it, although it was clearly a matter of nationality, since the people who were looking for compensation were practically Germans and/or descendants of Hungary without exception. The various levels and forms of compensation following the change of regime have formally, at least partially, tried to compensate for the crimes that the Germans in Hungary suffered after the Second World War, but, of course, there has never been, there will be, and there will be no possibility, complete compensation. I also said, it makes me wonder that they were more than 30 years after the change of regime, there are areas of compensation in Hungary where even partial compensation has not been made. In the case of Solymár, Pilisszentiván and Nagykovácsi, there is an incomprehensible and unacceptable situation that, to date, nearly 350 families, many 30 years after the change of regime, did not even receive the partial compensation that others, fortunately, had received years and decades earlier. The people who lived here were also abused because of their origins, as were the other Germans in Hungary, and were also affected by expulsion, forced labour, and unjust deprivation of their natural possessions. A year ago, in my speech to Parliament and since then in public forums, in discussions and in my speeches on the subject, I have repeatedly stressed that I fully agree with the aim and content of the bill. I know that 2021 is T/17427. During the parliamentary debate, there were numerous discussions with the victims concerned, including the Solymár Stakeholder Forum, as well as the members of the Pilisszentiván, Nagykovács community, which is a minority in the case of compensation. In their opinion, we made several clarifications and amendments to the bill at the time, which I submitted as part of an individual amendment, and they were partly included in the summary amendment proposal, which I thank you for. With this, we were able to help the legislator's work a year ago, on the basis of the final draft legislation, in 2021 CXLV on the settlement of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association. They were incorporated into law and improved its quality. I am now pleased to say that, under the law adopted on 14 December 2021, the first part of the compensation, the financial compensation took place on the basis of the views of the stakeholders, thank you for that. However, in July 2022, those still to be compensated were informed that only a third of the required land was available. Following the receipt of information on the lack of land, the representative of the people awaiting compensation in the land of Solymár requested data in the public interest from the National Centre for Earth Affairs, hereinafter referred to as "NFK', requested a list of state land. In the data request, not only the properties of settlements in Solymár, Pilisszentiván and the neighbouring settlements, which provide an opportunity for land publishing under the laws currently in force, but also the towns of Csobánka, Piliscsév and Pilisszántó, together with their land. The requested data were received within the time limits and content in accordance with the legislation. In the analysis of the data received, it was concluded that a number of agricultural properties were not included in the statement. This fact was indicated in a response letter to the NFK. The reason for the extension of the land register was that, given the land shortage indicated, it is only possible to meet legitimate needs through the involvement of properties belonging to new settlements. With this addition, which would require further clarification in the related laws, land would seem sufficient if protected but unprotected natural areas could be included in the Earth Fund in all settlements. It is an important suggestion for those who are waiting for compensation to delete outdated entries in mining law. This means nearly 2,000 gold crown properties with mining rights. In this connection, the representative of the applicants for compensation issued an official certificate to the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities, hereinafter referred to as the "SZTFH', in the mining supervision department in Budapest. [[10.40]] On the basis of this certificate, it would in principle be possible to initiate mining law entries, of course the cancellation of obsolete mining rights, but according to information received from the 1st Department of the Government of Pest County, the cancellation of mining rights can only be initiated by the NFK or the SZTFH, and the representative of those awaiting compensation is not directly entitled to initiate the cancellation proposed by those awaiting compensation. I hope that the NFK has taken steps to control the detection of land as well as to resolve the problems and issues raised with the entries of mining rights, but there is no information available for those awaiting compensation, no notification or information on this. To sum up: according to my current knowledge, it would be a solution for those who are waiting for compensation in the field of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Co-operative if, on the one hand, the National Land Management Centre checks and, if necessary, complements the state land statement; (2) by amending legislation, additional land suitable for remote settlements would be included in the ground; (3) the inclusion of areas marked with protected, but not protected natural resources would take place in the ground; last but not least, if obsolete mining rights were deleted. T/1846 on the amendment of individual land laws. Law No 69. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, I quote, the year 2021 CXLV. on the settlement of the situation of persons awaiting compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Co-operative. Act No. 7 In point (b) of paragraph 4 of this Article, the words "protected" shall be replaced by the protected text entered in the management of assets. In other words, protected natural areas in asset management cannot be used to compensate for land use. On this basis, I am not aware of it, but there is a clear reduction in the size of the land that can be used for compensation, as the Minister said at the end of his expozee. Mr President, Dear House, Finally, I would like to thank Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture and his colleagues, and Mr. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, again and specifically, for the actions of the Solymárians, Pilisszentivánians and Nagykovács, who are involved in the operation of the Rozmaring Production Association, who are entitled to compensation. Thank you for the fact that the first part of the implementation of the Compensation Act, the financial compensation, has already been carried out in practice and in reality on the basis of the views of stakeholders. With all due respect, and I trust that our common thinking will bring results in the return of the earth, and that we will be able to conclude this long-standing and painful compensation case permanently and soothingly. Finally, since I have some time left, allow me to make a completely personal and subjective remark after nine years of parliamentary activity. I had a very good time during today's general debate; I felt very good, because I felt that instead of throwing any political mud, it was an absolutely good professional debate, which is obviously due to the fact that the earth, water, climate is clearly our life and future, probably because the prepared ones, even if they were, were of such quality, and that everyone in their comments, regardless of whether they were fully agreed, agreed partially, was opposed or completely opposed, but remained absolutely on the subject and addressed them in a solution-oriented manner. Without the right to analyse or classify this, I simply thank everyone. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause.]]
u2022-11-11-20	I thank Imre Ritter very much for his speech and allow me to join him in thanking all my fellow Members with sincere respect for this morning. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz, who asked for the floor in a two-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-21	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Indeed, I had the same feeling as Mr Ritter about today's general debate, and it is a very good feeling that whatever motivation, any doubt or question mark has been voiced from the benches of the opposition, it has reflected the sense of responsibility that, I believe, is now in all of us, not only in public figures but also in farmers, I say that in water professionals, chamber staff, everyone, civil society activists who are doing the work on the ground or living from the ground. The legislative amendment on the protection of agricultural land, I think, is perfectly clear in its direction, and I would just like to add what the representative of LMP said that I believe that from water retention in the natural landscape to irrigation, farmers are also interested in all solutions and, in part, those who live in the Great Plain and all other areas that have recently been hit by a cruel drought. We in Békés County are specifically aware of the meaning of a period that has lasted for years, sometimes with droughts, and sometimes with sudden precipitation. Let me tell you a few little things, not a little thing, but perhaps a little less vital than that. I have been asked to settle the fate of the properties in the forests several decades ago or even longer ago. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] legally, administratively very correct. I believe that this is the concern raised by Rebecca Szabó [[The president's ringing again.]] Maybe it'll be less justified, and it'll be different. Thank you very much, two-minute...
u2022-11-11-22	Thank you very much, Congressman...
u2022-11-11-23	... there is no time for more in case of comment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-11-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, I would like to ask that someone would like to speak in a normal time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Dr. István Nagy, Minister, who wishes to answer what was said in the debate and the questions asked. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-11-11-25	That's right, thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Let me begin by thanking everyone for their comments, their opinions, and thank you for the way our fellow Member László Keresztes said that everyone felt that water and the protection of the earth will ensure the future of the nation, and that is what this debate was about, and it was in this tone, so I am also very grateful for it. My fellow Member, Mr Czerván, has indicated that the debate is about a land salad law, and that is true, and I am pleased that it is apparent from it, and from the comments, speeches, and the opinion of the lead speakers, it is clear that the law before us is actually looking for answers to real problems. It is also apparent that these proposals have been drawn up on the basis of many consultations and expert opinions. [[10.50]] It can also be seen that we are amending previous laws, changing previous practices based on the fact that we have tried how it works in practice. So, based on the feedback from life, we try to make the problems, the solutions that are needed to make it more lifelike, even more useful. And thank you to my fellow Member, Czerván, for feeling that we are dealing with the problems that arise in practice with these proposals. Balázs Barkóczi from the Democratic Coalition indicated the good news of the week for the Hungarian agriculture. Indeed, the adoption of the strategic plan provides some HUF 5300 billion in development resources and support for Hungarian farmers. I have to say that there are a lot of individual and Hungarian government's responsibilities in this regard, because, according to the agreed strategic plans and the practical proposals of the countries, we will be the only country that provides 80% national co-financing in the rural development pillar, i.e. in the two countries. This is an opportunity to address precisely the concerns that make our farming difficult, which make it difficult for us to move forward in a hectare of income and added value on a hectare. Our historical past is difficult to overcome, there is an inheritance that we cannot go through, we need to take a deep breath, and now we need to take a big step to overcome the obstacles arising from the fact that our manufacturing industry, our canning industry, was not renovated during privatisation, but closed down, and Hungarian agriculture was pushed back to the production phase, which we know is the least profitable. It's a huge mistake. We're having a hard time getting out of this situation. And it must be admitted that there was another mistake, because we did not use the first EU funds as our Polish friends, that we turned to economic recovery, but that the socialist-liberal government at the time held other goals to be important. However, it is very, very important that the remaining investments that the Poles have made in cold stores, storage capacities, modernisation of processing plants should occur, as this is how added value can be good. He asked how they were going, what the main cardinal issues were. Let me tell you something very, very important: in Hungarian agriculture, we need all hands on deck. If I open this to you, then this means that even with the most common basic support we provide to farmers as land-based support, we prefer the smallest. That is, in all the countries we know, they usually give us 102 euros per hectare as basic subsidies, and we start with 147. Then we give every small farmer up to ten hectares plus 80 euros as a basic support to support, strengthen ecological diversity, biodiversity and strengthen small farmers, because diversity is very, very necessary and that they remain in production. And because the structure of Hungarian agriculture is structured in such a way that it is one of the very important stages of our estate policy to strengthen family farms, to support rural residence and livelihood, a second category has been negotiated from the European Union, and this is to support up to 150 hectares. Here we can add half of the small ones, i.e. some 40 euros, in addition, which I think is a very good opportunity and it indicates how the Hungarian economy is diversifying. And we need every hand we can get. And let's face it: we see such a drought, we see the situation caused by the previous Covid epidemic, and we see the dangers of war, which can all bring about the threat to our food sovereignty, our food sovereignty. So it is also necessary to add to each hand that we need every square inch of cultivated food in order to ensure security of food supply for the whole of society. I would like to make some clarification to my fellow Member, as he said that farmers cannot refuel at official prices. But you can refuel at the official price. You have to go to the gas station with your tractors and you can fully refuel at official prices. It's a very big achievement. We managed to achieve this in a very great struggle, but each farmer at the well can fill his tractor at full official prices. He also commented on the question of the compensation fund. I have to say, it's regulated by law how it works. By the end of November, we have to assess all the damage in the country, then we have to aggregate it. After that, I can report to the government the extent of this damage at national level. It is clear that the amount of resources currently available in the remediation fund will not cover existing needs. Therefore, I must report to the government after the aggregation and propose to supplement the remediation fund so that we can compensate our fellow farmers who have suffered drought damage as much as possible. The operational tribe in the drought situation also indicates that we have been able to provide tangible assistance to farmers. The smallest comments were also taken into account when we decided to provide public feed support in a budget of HUF 3 billion, so that we could support the transfer of feed from the western part of the country almost free of charge, whether to take on loans with a very low interest rate or to introduce a ceiling. All such measures have been a tangible help to the farming community. And I think if you ask the farming community, they will also acknowledge that we have tried to give them all the maximum help and support in the given situation. He also raised the question of the price cap. I must say that the food price cap is designed in its structure so that it does not affect the producer; that is exactly what the rules say. The contract between production and processing shall not be amended. Therefore, the price negotiated should be the price of the product to be purchased by the processor or by the retail trade. The price cap refers to the mark-up of the shops. When we talk about products and prices, the price cap is about the control system between the purchase price and the selling price, and it does not affect the producer price. It's a very, very important thing. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) When you say the products are gone, well, it's because of the increased consumption. We're trying to satisfy and replace these goods, but as we're meeting today, believe me, the egg hasn't disappeared, just the one who bought a box is buying three. This causes the sudden difficulty, but next week, when everyone realizes that there will be eggs today, tomorrow, the day after, and the day after, then this whole thing will be completely fine. And you don't have to worry about importing potatoes. We have specifically looked at how the price of potatoes arriving from the Polish market has evolved over the years and over the past period; it can also be obtained without further delay. [[11.00]] It was not because of the price cap that imports were made, because there was not enough cooling capacity in Hungary, there was not enough processing capacity, the irrigation was also in a backward position, so potato production was not so profitable that farmers preferred to increase potato production, as potatoes have a very volatile price for producers, so it was a risky crop. For many years, the Hungarian crop has provided about half of it, since by January the Hungarian quantity, which is accumulated and sold out, has always traditionally been satisfied with the rest of the imports. The recovery examined the 10-year period. The fact is, after a decade, data is no longer available. The general limitation period is also at a level of five years. It disputes the use of trenches for soil improvers. I have to say, this is absolutely important. Later, I will point out that practically one of the very important parts of our water retention will be that the channels available can really be used, and that we can really steer water towards irrigable or irrigable areas, and that we can keep water, because it is practically the best place for it to be in the soil. When you ask the 10 hectares, this is basically due to the small forest spots, as these are absolutely no larger than 10 hectares. Why is it necessary not to apply in public? Because we wanted to do so, and we would like to do so, because grazing livestock, shepherding is a way of life, it is not possible to leave people in uncertainty in the area of making a new pen system, it is worth investing in, it is worth spending itself when this area will expire in 1-5 years. That is why we allow those who have been using that area for at least 10 years, never to experience difficulties, violations, any difficulties in grazing it in its nature conservation area, to cooperate with the nature conservation authorities, to give it to them without applying for it, because it is ensured that people with livestock can obtain it, it is ensured that the traditional way of life that is involved in shepherding in Hungarian agriculture over generations can continue to survive and continue to provide people with a livelihood. He's asking for the 5 million forints. That is now the purchase price of a good quality field. It is usually a ha and a half, but it is now a purchase price for a hectare of 5 million forints. The voting rate of the National Councils of the Mountains has not changed according to the new rule and has been agreed with them on this issue, their proposals and their requests have been formulated. The fines in the forest will also be proportionate to the golden crown, so no other changes will be made. He asked the question of the foundation with a public mission. As Mezőhegyes State Ménes estates operate in this form, this regulation is included. I thank my fellow Member, Béla Mihálffy KDNP, for his comments, and I will also thank you for your support for this law. Sándor Szabó, our MSZP fellow Member, stressed the important issues of irrigation and water management and indicated that increasing water retention would really be important. I have to say to all of you, because now we have three fellow Members who have made their comments specifically on water, and I would like to state in advance that we have not yet amended the water management law, but the land law, and we have brought a salad. We had to make some comments in it to ensure that the funds that were involved were already safe. But I'm grateful that you understand, you see, that we're moving, that we're giving the answers to the challenges. I can promise you that we will go to the government with the new proposals in a few days, and, of course, we will discuss our resulting tasks and opportunities here in Parliament, in the committees as well. I am grateful for the fact that you indicated that the law is largely eligible and that you are submitting amendments, since you are debating the issues of the class agreement. Let's discuss it, see what it's really about, and then at the end we'll take stock of how much it's eligible or not. János Bencze called the land salad a follow-up law. I have to say, of course, this is a game with words, but ultimately, every law is dealing with a situation, a problem, and it makes a proposal. Obviously, he said this because of the irrigation, because the historical drought that hit us makes us act decisively, so we do. He indicated that raising water levels is important in how we resolve this. That's right, the groundwater level with the water supply we have needs to be raised. Let me just say, in advance, that I'm being honest, there's not a good solution. This is a complex issue, and we have to deal with it in a complex way, because it may be perfect to use a rainporter in one area to temporarily capture water, to preserve it, to clean the channels in the other area, to expand this network, and to lead the water there like a hairline. The third option may be that we need to maintain inland water management. The fourth may be that the flood solution is the right one that some experts recommend. You have to find out which version you want, which one is the right one. They need to be enlightened, given the technical solution, the opportunity to see which solution is really useful. Because I fully agree that there is a conservation issue and that there is also a specific use of water for irrigation to assist economic activity. There is a difference between these two and, of course, overlap. Returning to János Bencze, he draws attention to the lack of real estate records and indicates their anomalies. Thank you very much, and we will also indicate that this data needs to be updated. The elimination of undivided common property is a great achievement of the previous government period. I am very proud that a consensus has been found in this Parliament, that we have succeeded in creating this law, and that we have managed to reduce it every day. Yes, indeed, we have faced the fact that the value does not always cover the administration fee, which is why the whole farming has been tied down by the undivided common. We need a comprehensive real estate registration reform. I'm willing to tell you the truth. [[11.10]] It needs to be reviewed, modernised, because there is digitalisation, and all the benefits of these have to be used today, and thank you for supporting the law, by the way. My fellow Member, Rebekah Szabó, is pleased with the Dialogue and I am grateful for this treatment of inland water in water management. We are talking about water retention: he mentioned water management issues with emphasis. Here we come with this water management issue. Thank you for feeling that the agricultural purse is a good place and good idea for water management. We are trying to really manage water as much as we can and can, because our future and our existence depend on it. I'd like to address your fear here at the forest property for the land design rules. It is simply that there are neglected properties in bad condition, which can simply not be identified, since there is no landmark number as to where it is. What we want to achieve with this is simply to find out what we have, to assess these properties, and to enter into the real estate register that, yes, there is a property that we need. But, by the way, let me tell you the very surprising turn of events that there is no real estate record of the Visegrád Castle. We can also manage to register the Visegrád Castle in real estate. These are such issues, and that is why I said that I can support real estate registration reform, because we also have such situations, which is obviously not just a failure of this government. We are fundamentally interested in cooperation between wallets, and I must say to you that this cooperation is excellent at the moment. Each wallet can put into this cooperation what is its strength and advantage. Water engineers are able to cooperate with the Ministry of Interior and with us water management and production professionals, and we are able to engage in a wide range of social dialogues that can not only handle water irrigation, but we can deal with virtually all habitat development issues, since nature conservation is at the forefront of our purses in this area. I am also very proud to put in parentheses that in the last three years we have been able to put more than 100,000 hectares of land in an ecological state that can re-present its high natural value, and in our current strategic plan for the common agricultural policy, it is also mentioned that we have increased the number of such areas by more than 100,000 hectares. I have answered your further questions, since they were in the context of pastures, shepherds, and shepherds. Dávid Dócs My fellow Member from Hungary also said his comments on water management. I've already answered that. There, however, I would like to protest to the full extent that the land is in the hands of foreigners. After all, if you remember, our fellow Member, we were willing to go to infringement proceedings with the European Union to eliminate pocket contracts, to break the process of getting the land into the hands of foreigners. And it is not true at all that the Danube is in the hands of foreigners, because we have gone against all the means of the law, and now, when we have to settle these page cuts, we will not provide property or land use, but we will pay compensation, but we cannot, because the Hungarian land belongs to the hands and property of Hungarian farmers. After all, it is safe to say: in Hungary, we look to the ground as a special animal, and not as it can be done in terms of free competition. This is obviously a European rule, it is the case at the moment, but we regard the earth as a matter of national sovereignty, so we are doing everything we can to keep the cultivation and preservation of agricultural land in the hands of Hungarian farmers. Lóránt Lóránt Keresztes to my colleague in the LMP: he mentioned water management and the dialogue that we started. I am, of course, prepared to talk about this at any time and to continue with this. I have to say that we will come with the Water Management Act and with the opportunities to come up with new concepts, and we will put very short, medium and long-term proposals on the table to symbolize the transformation of water management here in Hungary. And here I would also like to stress that it is easy to always say what is not good; it is not good to build a bottom threshold, it is not good to create a reservoir, it is not good to have open-color reservoirs. But instead, I'd like to say that we can't restore the natural potential that we had 200-300-400 years ago. But what we can handle is a complex look at which landscape, which area is the most effective water management method. And I think that will also lead to peace and a solution. I mean, with the rules and the intention, I think there's absolutely no debate between us. Imre Ritter, my German ethnic fellow, thank you very much for the historical recitation. Thank you very much for authentically presenting Solymár, Pilisszentiván and Nagykovácsi's compensation anomaly and our omissions which, thank God, we managed to make up for. I would also like to thank you for taking this up with our fellow Member Tamás Menczer, bringing it to Parliament, coming forward with constructive proposals and bringing together stakeholders. It was very important that there should be a dialogue opportunity, a platform to develop, and that 350 families should finally have peace and justice. What I can promise you is that we are going to initiate cancellation in the field of mining law, so I am ordering our own background institution to make sure that it does not prevent as much as possible from reaching an agreement as soon as possible, because more than 30 years, more than one generation, and there is nothing to wait for. We've got to figure this out. And thank you further for your help in coming with suggestions, and in order to complete both in-earth and in-earth compensation as soon as possible. And thank you, my fellow Member, Tamás Herczeg, for your comments on the drought, because we are really trying to resolve it as much as possible, and thank you for addressing our concern and showing the intention that no abuse and the like will be prepared to register properties in the forests, but that order and responsibility will be the most important. Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you for this opportunity and thank you all for your comments and comments. In the detailed debate, we look forward to your amendments with respect, and I very much hope that we will be able to adopt this law as much as possible with a common will. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2022-11-11-26	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Congressman Dócs asked for two minutes. Congressman! I would like to inform you that once the debate is over, there is no room for you to take the floor. The Minister's closing statement was delivered. Vice-President István Jakab, as President-in-Office of the Council, closed the debate; unfortunately, until then, there is room for speeches. I'm really sorry, but you're expected to be able to put me back on the subject. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft legislation on the protection of the origin of agricultural products will follow until closure. Government referral T/1841. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. [[11.20]] I now give the floor to Minister István Nagy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Protection of origin on the EU market for agricultural products is the only means by which Hungarian agricultural products can be legally protected and even promoted in foreign markets because of their geographical origin and traditional way of production. The name thus protected, i.e. a geographical indication such as Tokaj, pálinka, Balaton fish or a rugged cottage protected as a traditional speciality product, is also suitable for expressing national identity and the country's traditions and characteristics of production. Recognizing the social and economic importance of protected names, the agricultural portfolio launched its programme of protection of origin in 2015. One of the aims of the programme was to increase the number of registered Hungarian geographical indications. The programme has been a major success in this area, as, as a result of our work, 25 new Hungarian geographical indications have already been added to the EU register in addition to the initial 56 and 11 additional geographical indications are expected to be registered in the near future. The other important objective of the programme is to make greater use of the potential of the use of already protected names. In order to achieve this goal in particular, it became necessary to create a new legislative framework, including the creation of a law on protection of origin. The primary objective of this bill is to lay down provisions on geographical indications, traditional specialities guaranteed and traditional terms of wine products in a new legislation, which, in addition to complying with EU legislation, creates a legal framework for more effective control, protection and strengthening of the market position of protected names. It also provides the opportunity for producer communities to act jointly for their geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed, not only for the protection of the name, but also for the development and implementation of information and promotion activities concerning names. Through the separate law, agricultural policy, agricultural and rural development objectives linked to geographical indications and traditional special names can be achieved together, focusing on the interests of producers and their groupings, providing a simpler, more transparent and easier legal background for producers of Hungarian agricultural products bearing the protected name. The main provisions relating to the protection of geographical indications are currently laid down in the trade mark law. However, the trade mark law cannot fully ensure the achievement of the objectives of the agricultural policy, as it does not allow for the statutory regulation of sub-areas related to collective rights and traditional specialities guaranteed. A coherent and transparent regulation with these aspects can therefore be considered as a substitute for deficits. What are these aspects? How do we implement these? A public register of the operators concerned will be made available on the grounds of more effective control and the prevention of abuse of protected names. In order to promote international protection of names and a higher quality of Community management, producers and producers shall provide once a year information on the volume and commercial value of the products they produce, produce or stock and put on the market. This will allow monitoring of the use of the registered name in trade and economic analysis and a basis for joint progress. In recent years, domestic fruit and vegetable producers, food producers and pálinka producers have done a great deal individually for the success of Hungarian geographical indication products. However, the key to moving forward is to be able to act as a community to protect their common interests. The Origin Protection Act offers substantial assistance to producers and processors in this regard. It is an important prerequisite for the more effective protection of the protected names of our well-known wine-growing places, our food and our palms and for strengthening their market position, that they have a real right to own their owner and managing organisation. To this end, the bill provides the opportunity for the economic operators concerned to set up management organisations and also provides the means to create and maintain the resources necessary for the day-to-day operation of these organisations. Overall, the protection of protected names is improved by the source protection law, their market situation can be strengthened, the administration of them will become more transparent, the possibilities for action by producer communities will be increased. Dear House, Dear Parliament, As has been said, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill by their contributions, their professional proposals and their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-11-11-28	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Pócs, who is speaking here on the pulpit of the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to agricultural products and foodstuffs, the European Economic Community established in the early 1990s the first form of protection of Community industrial property rights, Community protection of designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs. The protected designations of origin and geographical indications known by the European Union, together with geographical indications, protect the names of more than 3,000 agricultural products. The aim of the introduction of Community protection for designations of origin and geographical indications is to encourage the production of quality processed agricultural products with higher income for producer communities. The protection of geographical indications shall constitute a collective right, which shall apply to all producers who produce a product in the defined geographical area in accordance with the product specification, while at the same time granting them exclusive entitlement to use the name relating to the registered geographical areas. The purpose of the draft is solely to establish a single regulation for agricultural products, foodstuffs, wine products and spirit drinks: geographical indications of agricultural products and traditional specialities guaranteed. The EU system of protection of origin for agricultural products, foodstuffs, wine products, aromatised wine-based drinks and spirit drinks provides consumers with a guarantee of the geographical origin of producers; this added value of protected products also improves their marketing opportunities. According to an EU survey carried out in April 2020, the sales value of products covered by a geographical indication is on average more than twice the sales value of other like products without a geographical indication. The value added effect of geographical indications allows producers and other actors in the value chain to increase competitiveness. It provides producers with the means to better distinguish and promote their products with specific characteristics from other products and to protect them against market abuse resulting from improper use of names. In the case of products with a designation of origin or a geographical indication, the specific quality of the products is characterised by the specific characteristics of the defined geographical area, such as climate, land and human knowledge. [[11.30]] The precise definition of a geographical area, the precise regulation of the production of products, the need to control quality-guarantee properties are elements of EU rules on protection of origin which guarantee not only the saleability of the products to the producer, but also provide consumers with information on the geographical origin and quality of each product. The protection of origin in a country's culture represents the most important, traditional value. The preservation of these values is in the common interest of all of us. Today, the origin and uniqueness of food is increasingly appreciated by producers and consumers alike. On this basis, it can be concluded that the use of geographical indications represents a strong economic potential which significantly increases the value of products. The European Union considers geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed as a quality system which rewards producers for their efforts to produce higher quality products and which can bring significant benefits to the rural economy. At the same time, EU legislation focuses primarily on promoting the production of higher quality products, which is closely linked to the common agricultural policy, market, income support policy and rural development policy, when operating the GI protection system. However, geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed have an important role to play in repositioning agricultural products on the international market. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The priority of our national government is to strengthen the geographical indication system so that as many of these products as possible can be found in our country and producers can enjoy the marketing security and the highest prices that they can obtain. However, the current domestic legislative environment cannot fully ensure the achievement of agricultural policy objectives consistent with the Commission's vision, as it does not allow for strengthening the role of producer groupings, organisations active in geographical indications, the preconditions necessary for a higher level of Community coordination of geographical indications and the granting of powers. On this basis, it is necessary to establish a separate law through which the agricultural policy, agricultural and rural development objectives related to geographical indications, the name of traditional specialities guaranteed can be achieved together, focusing on the interests of producers and groupings, providing a simpler, more transparent and more easily manageable legal background for Hungarian agricultural products and producers alike. Among the positive effects of the bill, I should mention more transparent administration and more effective protection of the names of protected agricultural products, which will enable producers' communities to better protect the market values of their geographical indications on both national and international markets, within the framework provided by law. Thus, the law will only help the actors of the Hungarian agricultural economy to increase the competitiveness of products with unique quality indicators in the domestic and international markets, linked to the geographical area. For other industrial products which are not covered by the provisions of Union law on the protection of geographical indications, the provisions of the trade mark law continue to apply. This Act regulates the designation of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs, wine products and spirit drinks, the organisation and deletion of geographical indications and the protection of traditional terms, the registration and deletion of the name of traditional specialities guaranteed and the procedures relating to the application for amendments to the specification, the specific issues relating to the enforcement of rights deriving from protection and the protection of geographical indications and the name of traditional specialities guaranteed, the verification of the use of protected names, and the legal consequences which may be imposed in the event of an infringement. Article 45 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality system for agricultural products and foodstuffs provides for the possibility for Member States to encourage, by administrative means, the establishment and functioning in their territory of organisations entitled to act in order to ensure adequate legal protection of protected geographical indications and of intellectual property rights directly related to them and to develop and implement information and promotion activities, to monitor the use of registered names in trade and to conduct economic analyses. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill. Using the instrument provided by EU law, in order to protect protected names more effectively, it is of the utmost importance from the agricultural point of view to the establishment of organisations with the aforementioned powers, which can act on behalf of all producers and producers entitled to use the protected name concerned, contributing to the success of Hungarian farmers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-11-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Balázs Barkóczi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, I would like to point out, first of all, that, according to the DK Group, the proposal contains eligible elements, but I would also like to ask Minister some questions here. The general justification of the proposed legislation before us contains the following - I quote:. The EU survey commissioned by the European Commission published in April 2020 shows that the sales value of products covered by a geographical indication is on average more than twice the sales value of similar products without a geographical indication. On this basis, it can be concluded that the use of geographical indications represents a strong economic potential and significantly increases the value of products. In recognition of this and not in dispute, it should be noted that in the last 12 months, i.e. compared to September 2021, the price of food has increased by an average of 35.2%, in particular the price of bread, by 76.2 percent, the price of cheese has already been mentioned in the previous debate by 68 percent, the price of dairy products and butter and butter cream by 66.3 percent, margarine by 61.2 percent, dry pasta by 60.2 percent, and by below average, by 22.4 percent, but chocolate, cocoa and sugar have increased by 19.1 percent. The Minister mentioned that he hoped that there would be no shortage of eggs. We already have sugar, Minister, so let's wait and see. In addition, the price of food oil increased by 5 percent. As a result, it can be said that, as a result of the livelihood crisis in which this government pushed the country, the purchase of products with geographical indications is clearly not a priority for Hungarian consumers. The sad reality is that Hungarian customers are currently trying to buy the cheapest and still the food on the shelf in the first place. [[11.40]] We have also read in the general statement that the European Union regards geographical indications and traditional specialities as a quality system, which rewards producers and rewards their efforts to produce higher quality products, which can bring benefits to the rural economy. We are currently talking here about the state of November 2022 81 Hungarian geographical indications are protected in the EU: 38 wine products, 30 agricultural and food products and 13 pálinka; in the case of 23 other products, the application is already submitted and is waiting for registration. We therefore accept and support the need to create a separate law through which the agricultural, agricultural and rural development objectives linked to geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed can be achieved together, focusing on the interests of producers and groupings, but we also consider it important to review this every year in the initial period and, if necessary, to amend it on the basis of practical experience. And now a few questions for the Minister. As regards the content of the proposal, points 4 and 32 are added. The Government shall be empowered to lay down detailed rules on the administrative procedures covered by this Act in a regulation. I would ask the Minister when this regulation will be drawn up, how much to wait for detailed rules on the administrative procedures covered by the law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 states that a geographical indication or traditional speciality guaranteed may establish a protection fund. In this connection, I would like to ask Minister how effective the protection fund for a geographical indication or traditional speciality guaranteed can be in everyday life. Article 19 § 2 sets out what to do if there is infringement of a protected geographical indication. How effective can it be, according to Minister, or who are responsible for taking action against the usurper? And it's also related to the 22nd. § 2 describes that the court may order the free ownership of the means, materials or goods subject to infringement for purposes of public interest. Is it really possible to take, free of charge, the tools I have just listed? For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 specifies what to do if the name of the geographical area in the name of the company or in the title of the place of production consists of a protected geographical indication. In the case of agricultural products placed on the market for the first time in Hungary, it must be examined first that the name of the geographical area in the name of the company or in the title of the place of production does not contain a protected geographical indication name. I'd like to ask you how you got that pass right. And it also relates to which authority will be the authority responsible for controlling these agricultural products. Finally, the 29th. § 1 is about the reporting system. I would like to ask Minister about the format in which the transmission will take place. Thank you very much for listening, and thank you in advance for your answers.
u2022-11-11-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Béla Mihálffy, who is speaking from here on the platform, from the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, In the debate on the previous agenda, it was said that the news of the week was that the Common Agricultural Policy Strategy Plan was adopted by the Commission. I think that this work is primarily due to the staff of the Ministry, so I would like to thank both Minister and Secretary of State and all the staff of the Ministry for this work. Nor is it a negligible fact, which could be the second news of the week at the moment, that virtually all opposition speakers have said positive things on the previous agenda. So if such an amendment comes before Parliament, on which even the opposition has a positive view, there is no greater result than that, so I would also like to congratulate you and thank you for the work that the legislators have done. Now, on the agenda. As we have heard in the expozee, the draft law on the protection of the origin of agricultural products before the National Assembly aims at establishing uniform national rules for the geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs as well as for the geographical indications of wine products and spirits and traditional specialities guaranteed. This legislation is necessary because consumers are increasingly in demand for agricultural products with specific characteristics and traditionally produced agricultural products due to their geographical origin. In response to this demand, producers of products with such specific characteristics should be provided with the means to effectively distinguish their products from other products when they are placed on the market, thereby giving them a competitive advantage and thus protecting them against unfair practices. In fact, protected geographical indications indicate that the product comes from a particular place or region and owes its special quality, reputation or other characteristic to its geographical origin, such as ours, the Szeged Mirror Point registered in Szeged last year. This geographical indication right constitutes a collective right under the law, which applies to all producers who produce a product in accordance with the product specification in the defined geographical area, while at the same time granting them exclusive entitlement to use the name related to the registered geographical area. In April 2020, a survey was published on behalf of the European Commission showing that the sales value of products covered by a geographical indication is on average more than twice the sales value of similar products without a geographical indication. This is a huge difference and it can therefore be said that the use of geographical indications represents a strong economic potential and can greatly increase the value of marketed production. Geographical indications enable producers to increase competitiveness in international markets, ensuring that they can better distinguish and promote their products with specific characteristics from other products and protect them against market abuse resulting from unlawful use of names. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, EU legislation focuses primarily on promoting the production of higher quality products in relation to geographical indications, which is closely linked to the common agricultural policy's market and income support policy and rural development policy. The European Union considers geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed as a quality system which rewards producers for their efforts to produce higher quality products and thus benefits rural economies. The new legislation on protection of origin before us is also necessary because the current domestic legislative environment is the idea of the European Commission to strengthen the geographical indication system, in line with the achievement of the agricultural policy objectives, cannot fully ensure, since earlier legislation does not allow for strengthening the role of producer groupings, organisations carrying out activities related to geographical indications, providing the necessary preconditions and powers for a higher level of Community management of geographical indications. [[11.50]] Thus, the new law before us will only help Hungarian agriculture players to increase the competitiveness of their products with specific quality characteristics in the domestic and international markets by creating rules on agricultural products. In respect of other industrial products, the protection of which is not covered by the provisions of Union law, the provisions of the trade mark law continue to apply. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what I have said, the following three major positive effects can be the adoption of the law. In particular, the adoption of the framework will make the administration more transparent and simpler. The regulation will be laid down in a single coherent legislation. Secondly, the protection of protected names will become more effective than ever before by adopting the new legislation. Finally, producer communities can better protect the market value of their geographical indications on national and international markets by using the instruments available to them under the new law. Within the framework provided by law, they will be able to conduct marketing activities related to the geographical indication and to carry out economic analyses. I believe that the bill contains eligible initiatives, which is why I ask you, like the KDNP fraction, to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-11-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Bencze. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-35	Hang on, I'm gonna shoot the tech, 'cause I can't right now.
u2022-11-11-36	He's adjusting his mike, Congressman. [[János Bencze: Thank you, there has been a problem.]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna need the clock restored. Congressman's got the floor.
u2022-11-11-37	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, We have a proposal that must be supported, since these geographical origin protections, where a product comes from, also fill the producer with pride. Every person living in agriculture who produces, creates their own product and acquires such a trademark will also have pride when travelling abroad and hearing from acquaintances that he has produced such a product. We were part of this ourselves, without trademarks, but they brought our own product back from Dubai as a gift. This is a special pride, and it will strengthen the kind of producer consciousness that it is worth doing and that it is worth creating. I very much hope that this will be an advantage both on the EU and on the world market, and those Hungarian product names, geographical origin markers, which used to indicate excellent products before and after World War II, will return to the world and provide markets for our products, whether in the West or in the East. However, we hold that every law and law is worth as much profit as it brings and what we can enforce. I hope very, very much that what we have here, for example, is going to result in very serious sanctions, figuratively speaking, that anyone who does this will destroy a producer community; he will destroy Hungary's treasure, bring it to a bad reputation, and will make it impossible for producers, take their livelihood, take away their family's livelihood. In such a legislation, we will ask for very serious sanctions on behalf of Jobbik, that Hungarian people, Hungarian producers who have put their hearts and souls into the product, protect and defend the Hungarian land, because it is their life that cannot be made impossible for them. Simply put, as they have said, I represent beekeepers, who do this, let the plastic lock rot on it; there is no better word for that. I'd like to take a living example. We mark a product very nicely, very well with protection of origin, and what happens when someone is importing that product from abroad, so to speak, in a stingy way, or just pushing down a product that clearly has a lower quality, even a forgery. Well, these should be their punishment. Dear Minister, You're a beekeeper, like me, as a colleague in this room, and I'm speaking on behalf of the beekeeper's department. It's not a profession, it's a way of life. 12,000 Hungarian beekeepers are waiting for help, let us say, to call it a product infringement, because from the direction of Ukraine, from Ukraine, where everything is less produced as a result of the war, every crisis is caused by honey dumping. It's pouring in through the Ukrainian border, what do you want me to say? something called honey at the border, at the Hungarian border, at the direction of Slovakia, and at a very depressed price. They put the Hungarian bee-keeping sector in an unpredictable position. In such cases, even if it is not clearly protected, I would ask the Minister for his help to examine what comes in, what effect it has, and those who have done this, if it is a forgery, supposedly Chinese honey, to receive their punishment. For the unprotected product, we see it many times, and again I refer to the beekeeping, that the person who committed the forgery is not smiling out of the bars, but many times in the news that, yes, a false product has appeared under his name again, a low-quality product or contaminated product, for decades, and as if he had been protected by someone, as if there existed in Hungary a, I don't know, food mafia, which was referred to by the Italians, which was given some kind of protection in Hungary. I really, really hope that's not part of NER, that's not where you get protection from. I ask you to take action against this in any way, and the bill in this form, as the intention of the bill itself has been submitted, and the noble intention is to extend the range of these products, thus strengthening the Hungarian producer consciousness, to be supported. On our part, he certainly has his support. Thank you.
u2022-11-11-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Group of our country is Mr Dócs Dávid. If you consider that the two-minute speech is still up to date, then you should open your speech with it.
u2022-11-11-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Yes, indeed, the protection of the origin of agricultural products is an extremely necessary bill, so, in truth, here, I think that I will not take advantage of my timeframe, because this is a highly eligible bill, which we will support, all the more so, since the protection of the origin of agricultural products is, in fact, a trademark of land units, because we are talking about products based on tradition and produced with high added value, which, I believe, are even more appreciated in these current food shortages and crisis periods. I think those families, those family farms, those producers and producer communities who are still in the 21st century. In the first century they gave their heads to produce first-class food and food material, and they should have the highest appreciation. I would therefore like to change it now, if Mr President has already authorised me to do so, with the previous topic and with the previous item on the agenda, because it is simply not enough to protect Hungarian products, but it is also necessary to protect the Hungarian agricultural land. I am pleased that the Minister for Agriculture defended his position. I would appreciate it most if Mr. Minister of Agriculture were right unconditionally, but if I look at my laptop now, I see a resolution issued by the government office in Zala County, which was registered by Dr. Rózsa Sifter. In this, it is simply a pre-buy entitlement. The point is that a Hungarian farmer, who would also be entitled to protection, is a full-fledged Hungarian farmer, who is the founder of the Fairy Garden Movement, and has taken on a huge state job, since he has created a gene bank, a fruit tree bank, and now there are several fairy gardens who are trying to prefer these indigenous Hungarian varieties, so they, who have created hundreds of these indigenous Hungarian fruit trees, unfortunately, are now in a very interesting situation where the Hungarian government office has simply given priority in buying a pre-emption to an Austrian citizen, to whom this decision was posted at his address in Austria. He is Wolfgang Hubert Binder and is located at 8200 Gleisdorf in Austria. So the unfortunate situation was that I was notified to this address, I say once again, an Austrian citizen who managed to put himself in the pre-emption ranking before a Hungarian producer of such protection. [[12.00]] This is a problem because we protect Hungarian products in vain if Hungarian agricultural land is not managed enough. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will be able to deny even this specific example, as well as many other similar examples along this specific example. After all, if we are on Transdanubia, there are plenty of protected products, too, but when we talk to the farmers there, they often have a very different opinion than the Minister of Agriculture, because there are thousands of hectares of property and units out of the heart of the Transdanubia, which have technically ceased to exist as Hungarians. You feel like you're not in South Transdanubia, you're in East Austria. So we would like to support the bill to a hundred percent, thank you very much for everyone's work, and I hope that, although it does not belong entirely to this item on the agenda, Mr Agriculture Minister will be able to touch on the problem I just mentioned. Thank you very much for the floor. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-11-11-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, two-minute speeches, first I give the floor to Member László Tasó.
u2022-11-11-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, My apologies, I can only now address the previous proposal, the bill, and in a long sentence, I would ask you to consider my amendment by the Minister, indicating that, in the case of municipalities affected by public forests, they do not always have an area where public welfare objectives could be achieved and that they could create investments that are appropriate to the needs of the population. Therefore, my proposal will be to consider, in order to invest in high social needs, the removal of public forest land over 10 hectares from public ownership by the Minister of Agriculture. That would be my request, thank you very much for the opportunity to tell you. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-11-11-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since only one Member from one faction can apply in one block, I suggest to Mr Tamás Herczeg that I have already registered for a proper speech that, if he accepts this, I will give the floor to a proper speech and give his speech as long as it is important. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would also like to draw attention to an aspect of this legislation that may not have been mentioned here in the last few minutes. If we buy a protected product of origin, it's definitely not made from genetically engineered material or material. It may also be worth pointing out that trading a product that is part of our culture, which is part of our tradition, if we are a customer in this market, we are strengthening the ability of small producers, producers, to generate income. So if you buy a product with Hungarian origin protection when you go to a store, you can choose home safely, because both in its raw material and its quality, added value and taste are certainly excellent and certainly ours. Over the past few years, or at least, I have seen data that in the last few decades, the number of producer markets in Hungary has increased by two and a half times in the last few years, which also shows in part the page that appears on the small producer side, that there are more and more people who are happy to bring their own products, their own fruits, vegetables, spices and animal products directly to customers, and who are buying, they also offer better quality goods. This paradigm shift, which means our purchases, also shows that this legislation is part of its manufacturers and, in part, on the consumer side, very important security, guarantees, traditions and value gains for producers, so this is an excellent piece of legislation, I think we rural people can be quite sure of that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-11-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and, with respect, I would like to ask the Minister, if he has the time frame, to answer questions which, although not entirely on this subject, are still in line with it. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-45	Thank you. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for your comments on the bill, and let me start in line, as the lead speakers were. Thank you very much to my fellow Member, János Pócs, for the fact that the Fidesz faction understands, supports the growing appreciation of food itself, the growing appreciation of production itself, the increasing appreciation of quality and the competition in the world, and how important it is in a global market to protect locally and locally the values that make us unique and unrepeatable. Of course, here, my fellow Member, János Pócs, had an important idea that this was a strong economic potential, and that was what our fellow Member Balázs Barkóczi replied to and expressed his concern that it would have an expensive effect at the time, according to an EU study. I would like to reassure you as strongly as possible and reject it: it is not, it has a protective character. In a global market situation, at a time when food quality is a very important aspect for us, quality assurance, traceability from agricultural land to table, so that we know what quality, where food comes from, this protection of origin is very, very helpful and protective. You can obviously see what products are there now, whether or not the New Whitetó curled cherry or its pálinka, are all protected from origin, because it means quality, special quality. In the commercial world, it means a unique one with a special customer layer. So it doesn't affect the shopping basket at all like you set the example. After all, his subsequent sentences perfectly contradicted it when he said what price increases were in the case of other products, none of them falling within the product scope of origin protection. When's the order? He asked. With the entry into force of the law, the implementing regulation comes: 1 May 2023. What I can promise everyone is that we want to be as strict as possible against this infringement, because it has a major impact on the economy of the producer. The provision of data is for statistical purposes in practice, and we want to know how many products are placed on the market. The protection fund shall be operated by the producer organisation, where resources are reserved to be used against the unlawful use of names, such as the lawyer's costs or the expert's fee. How the use of business names can be an instrument of abuse, I'll give you a simple example. Tokaji Bor Kft., if you choose this name and you are determined to write it on the label with a large letter, then you will inform everyone that there is an Italian wine in it, but everyone sees Tokaji Bor Kft. and thinks that it is a Tokaji wine, and that is why we also need to pay close attention to these questions to give you just one example. [[12.10]] Let me say to my better fellow Member, János Bencze, that I thank you for considering the intention of the law to be supported, and thank you also for indicating that every law is worth what it can be observed. Yeah. I would also like to point out here that we will punish and sanction us very closely and very strongly. Then let's get to the beekeepers' problem, if I have a sentence of time. A distinction must be made between two very important things. Let's see what's going on in Ukraine right now. There's a war situation. The Ukrainian beekeepers' community: compared to our 20 grand beekeeper society, they are 400,000. So the quantity is so much higher, because let's look at the map, Hungary's production potential and Ukraine's production potential. There's a war going on. They don't know if the burnt-out honey will be the victim of a missile hit tomorrow, or whether they're taking it as a spoil of war or even putting it on the market. They therefore have the most anti-market effect of taking it from the spinner to the market immediately. Unfortunately, European honey merchants are most happy to take advantage of this because they receive cheap honey and otherwise receive natural honey at a good price. That's why I said that's one way to say it, it's an aspect of things. The other thing you're referring to is that there's a very strong need to act against it. But I don't think that because of the war, there is a Chinese forgery there, but simply Ukraine's beekeeper's company has produced huge quantities of honey, because it was a good bee year, and it has put it on the market at the same time, because it doesn't want it to be lost, and it wants to sell it at a cheap price, but it certainly wants to earn income, because it may just as well need the source of this honey to move, to relocate, to escape, to survive. I can tell the Hungarian beekeeper community that the flu season is about to begin, and the start of the European honey consumption season is about to start, and we hope that the purchase of domestic honey will start at a reasonable price, at market prices. Then let us make a reason for this, because it is not about Hungarian honey processors buying honey from Ukraine, but about the fact that we, as in general, produce a lot more of honey than the country consumes. That is why we are also interested in accessing the European market, but there is now dumping on the European market, the largest amount of honey from Ukraine, and therefore we cannot afford it at the moment, there is no demand for ours. But I hope that with the beginning of the flu season and the winter season, with the start of Christmas baking and preparing for the Christmas Christmas table, Hungarian honey will also have a place at the European and Hungarian consumer table. On behalf of my fellow Member, Mr Dócs, on behalf of Mi Hazak: I fully agree with you saying that it is not enough to protect the product, the land must also be protected. I was confronted with this example yesterday, which you indicated, because I received the complaint of Gyula Kovács. I must admit, my colleagues are witnesses to my inexorable outrage at this, and I promise you an investigation, an investigation, and the strictest inquiry, because it simply cannot happen. But by the way, it follows from the law, from the source protection law, that the right to buy pre-emptive products will also be high for producers of protected products in such cases. On the basis of the South-Transdanubian example, let us be just and paint the whole volume of the situation, because there are seemingly foreign people who are also Hungarian citizens. Hungarian citizens cannot be discriminated against in such a case. So let's add this to the painting of the whole picture, which is precisely true in the case of the South-Transdanubian example. The product withdrawn for infringement purposes may be transferred to local governments or to a church or a charitable organisation, especially if there is no objection in the quality of the food, simply because the label is misleading or false data is indicated on the label, so the edible product would be a waste, but then let the charitable organisations use it. Let's take this as an opportunity to take action against food waste. I can tell my fellow Member Tasó to submit his bill of amendment. And thank Tamás Herczeg for his confirmation that Hungary is taking a firm stand against GMO production and defending and carrying the flag in the GMO fight. He also pointed out, of course, the role of the market in ensuring that biodiversity, the multitude of craft products are properly located and bring together the producer with the buyer, and that there is an opportunity for this law to lead to the renewal of Hungarian gastronomy, the strengthening of local residents, the strengthening of the countryside and the strengthening of its economy. Thank you very much, Mr President, for this opportunity. I hope that, after the amendments have been negotiated, Parliament will be able to adopt this law in a large proportion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-11-46	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 this afternoon. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the draft legislation on the procedure for granting agricultural aid from the Common Agricultural Policy and from the national budget until closure. The government referral is T/1840. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor once again to Minister István Nagy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the proposed legislation is to put the procedural rules on EU and domestic agricultural subsidies on a new basis for more transparent, efficient and up-to-date decision-making, timed to coincide with the programming period starting on 1 January 2023 for both financial bases of the common agricultural policy. On 2 December 2021, the European Parliament and the Council adopted two Regulations setting out the common framework for the common agricultural policy for 2023-27. The regulations also introduced significant changes in implementation in the planning, management and evaluation of EU agricultural and rural development aid and other market regulation measures. One of the most important features of the new EU legislation is the introduction of a strategic plan at Member State level for the two financial funds of the common agricultural policy, the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, i.e. the CAP strategic plan, which allows Member States to adapt the provisions of the common agricultural policy to the needs of the domestic agricultural producer structure. Another important element of the new CAP system is the appointment of a single national managing authority for the implementation of the CAP strategic plan, i.e. the management of both financial funds. The managing authority was only in the case of the rural development programme implementing the EAFRD during the previous period. [[12.20]] In terms of financial implementation, the payments of both common agricultural policy funds should and can be made by Member States via an accredited paying agency. On the basis of the above, significant changes to both the EAGF and EAFRD Member States' implementation systems should be prepared for the financial planning period 2023-27. These changes are linked to the development, negotiation and adoption by the Commission of a national strategic plan for the common agricultural policy 2023-27. The purpose of this bill is to establish the legal requirements of the Member States' procedure adapted to the above EU rules for the new programming period. The transition to the support scheme for the 2023-27 programming period creates the possibility of a modern, flexible system of procedures applying a single approach, only for the use of agricultural aid. The new regulation will allow for changes in the institutional structure that could lead to significant simplification of procedures. In the light of these aspects, the bill sets out the objectives that it intends to achieve, which are jointly managed by a separate regulation other than the procedures for other budgetary support. The legal area covered by the draft law is essentially based on the following three regulatory levels. The relevant acts of the European Union at the level of regulation, in particular, which include basic technical or financial provisions relating to the use of grants. One of the most important features of these legislation is that it should be applied directly in the Member State. The most important directly applicable EU legislation to be applied in this context is contained in the final provisions of the bill. The legislation created in the competence of the Member States, for which two aspects must essentially be enforced. Repetition of EU legislation should be avoided and, on the other hand, only matters for which the directly applicable European Union act expressly authorises or does not prohibit. Under these frameworks, the legislator may establish in national competence any legislation that the national legal system of that Member State considers necessary in order to implement it. The institutions involved in the implementation, i.e. the managing authority and the internal rules of the paying agency. These internal rules shall include the tasks to be carried out and decision-making powers per measure. In particular, the existence of internal regulators is a prerequisite for, for example, the proper placement of agricultural subsidies, the accreditation of the paying agency. With the above in mind, the bill contains framework rules, synthesizing the very important practical experience of using the two financial bases of the common agricultural policy. The regulatory experience of the previous programming period requires that appropriate conclusions be drawn at Member State level and the strands of the two pillars of the common agricultural policy should be drawn closer than previously, detaching the EAFRD from the Structural and Cohesion Funds. The well-functioning elements of the two previous programming periods had to be combined and the difficulties experienced removed. With regard to the EAFRD, we have been able to apply both a strict system of administrative procedures and a more flexible system based on civil law calls for proposals over the period. Depending on the type of measure, both models have advantages and disadvantages. Normative, territorial and animal-number-based support schemes can be operated much more effectively under regulation at ministerial level, in particular with regard to the single application system for both financial bases and the previously cross-compliance system, which is closely linked to it, according to the new EU rules. At the same time, investment-type grants can be operated much more flexibly in the call for proposals system. On the basis of the above, therefore, we have developed a procedural model that is suitable for the implementation of the agricultural policy objectives and the common agricultural policy strategic plan, which therefore includes both pillars of the CAP, combines good practices for the implementation of the last two planning cycles and constitutes a uniform procedural basis. The Single Management Mechanism provides a system of support assessment and IT background, and the rules of the previous programming period should be maintained until the ongoing support procedures and the closure of the programmes are completed, while delimiting the scope of the new regulation. It is necessary to put the bill into effect in two stages in order to ensure a smoother transition to the new aid period. From the new rules, institutional changes and transparency standards which form part of the anti-corruption strategy will apply from 1 January 2023, while the procedural rules will apply from 1 June 2023. In view of the transition, the proposed legislation contains Article XVII of 2007 on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. It is also essential to maintain its former scope and to apply its rules for a short transitional period due to the delay in adopting the CAP strategic plan. Thus, it will be possible to submit and assess a single application under the CAP strategic plan in 2023, to ensure related IT developments in accordance with EU rules for the new period and within the prescribed deadline. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, you can see that the proposed legislation will provide modern and flexible procedural frameworks for the farmers and agricultural enterprises concerned in the coming period of support. I would therefore ask my fellow Members to discuss the adoption of the bill on the basis of the reasons given, and then to support it with their votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-11-48	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Béla Dankó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary is an ally of the countryside. I am convinced that one of the key keys to Hungary's future success is that if our rural areas, cities and villages are successful, together with the people living there. The shaping of the future of the Hungarian countryside is therefore essential for the Hungarian government from a social, economic and environmental point of view. The aim of the law is to put procedural rules on the use of EU and national agricultural subsidies on a new basis for a more modern, efficient and transparent decision-making. With these aspects in mind, the legislative proposal sets out the objectives of establishing the legal framework for the new programming period for the Member States' procedures in line with the EU rules. In Hungary, there is also a high proportion of agricultural land in international comparison, with nearly 5.5 million hectares of agricultural land under cultivation. Nearly 500,000 workers and through them, the same number of families are directly or through economic sectors, businesses, agriculture, the food industry and supply companies serving these sectors. This is why it is important for our national government to decide on the basis of which, from 2021 onwards, our country will provide a maximum national additional resource of 80% for the EU funds of the common agricultural policy. [[12.30]] On 2 December 2021, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the two Regulations on support financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for the strategic plan to be prepared by the Member States under the common agricultural policy, including the programming period for the two financial funds of the common agricultural policy to be launched on 1 January 2023. These two Regulations lay down the legislative framework for the common agricultural policy between 2023-27. The new regulation introduces significant changes in the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy 2023-27 in terms of planning, management and evaluation of EU agricultural and rural development aid and other market regulation measures. One of the most important features of the new regulation is the introduction of strategic plans for the two financial funds at Member State level, allowing Member States, including Hungary, to adapt the provisions of the common agricultural policy to the needs of the domestic agricultural producer structure. Furthermore, another important element of the new CAP system is the appointment of a single national managing authority to manage both financial funds for the implementation of the CAP strategic plan. This was previously required only for the rural development programme implementing the EAFRD. In terms of financial implementation, the payments of the two financial funds will have to be made through one agency per Member State. The new regulation will allow for changes to the institutional organisation that will lead to the elimination of duplication and, in the case of procedures, simplification. The proposal establishes a legal framework for the new programming period for the Member States' procedures in line with the EU rules. On the basis of the above, changes to both the EAGF and EAFRD implementation systems under the responsibility of the Member States should be expected for the period 2023-27. These changes are linked to the development and negotiation of the CAP's national strategic plan for 2023-27, which the European Commission adopted for Hungary on 7 November 2022. The bill, as Minister said, is based on three levels of regulation. The well-functioning elements of the two previous programming periods had to be combined and the difficulties eliminated. The regulatory experience of the previous programming periods requires that appropriate conclusions be drawn at Member State level and the strands of the two pillars of the CAP should be drawn closer than previously, detaching the EAFRD from the Structural and Cohesion Funds. With regard to the EAFRD, we have been able to apply both a strict system of administrative procedures and a more flexible system based on calls for proposals based on civil law over the past period. With the above in mind, the bill contains framework rules, summing up our substantial experience in the use of the two CAP financial bases. Normative, territorial and animal-number-based support schemes can be operated much more effectively under regulation at ministerial level, in particular with regard to the single application system for both financial bases and the previously cross-compliance system, which is closely linked to it, according to the new EU rules. However, investment-type grants can be operated much more flexibly in the call for proposals system. On this basis, the procedural model is suitable for achieving the objectives of the agricultural policy and the CAP strategic plan; it provides a single governance mechanism, a system of evaluation of aid applications and an IT background. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Please support this bill, because the aim is to renew, strengthen the economy of Hungary's rural areas, and put it on the path of development, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by modern technologies. For rural Hungary, the economic and environmental sustainable development of agriculture, forestry, food processing and related economic sectors is an opportunity to create value and livelihood by building on its own resources. A large part of the Hungarian rural areas have comparative advantages and accumulated knowledge in terms of economic activities related to agriculture, which is worth and should be built on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-11-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Balázs Barkóczi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-51	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The draft law on the common agricultural policy and the procedure for granting agricultural aid from the national budget is nothing more than a law regulating the rights and obligations of those involved in the grant relationship in a uniform and separate special system of procedure. This is the first sentence of the general justification. This is also laid down in the general justification. On the other hand, whoever is monitoring the agricultural support system clearly sees that the bill before us will not make a big difference compared to the existing regulatory system. One of the most important features of the new regulation has already been mentioned, my fellow Member Dankó has also mentioned the introduction of strategic plans at Member State level for the two financial funds, the EAGF and EAFRD funds, which allow Member States to adapt the provisions of the CAP to the needs of the domestic agricultural producer structure. That's what we talked about. The Democratic Coalition Group also hopes that the existing parallels in the institutional structure will disappear with the new regulation and that procedures will be significantly simplified in the case of procedures. However, today's Hungarian aid reality is currently a hybrid aid scheme that is not good for farmers or those assessing the aid. While digitalisation is so often mentioned in the context of the aid scheme, today, in the case of investment aid proposals, this very often means that paper documents need to be scanned and sent in, and the documents submitted must be taken out again at the time of checks, sealed and photographed only digitally. This is XXI. Hungary's support system in the 20th century is currently in place. Not to mention that, in the context of the first debate, Minister said that the Hungarian support system prefers the smallest. However, people living in agriculture see these systems as often Fidesz's electoral weapons. It can be observed that for each election period, there will be dumping or dumping of supporting documents. In most cases, the government uses the EU-funded support system to strengthen its own power or to control rural masses and farmers. That is why the CAP must be in the interests of all Hungarian farmers, and it should indeed go to farmers rather than elsewhere. I have questions about the bill before us, Minister. Article 4 § 2 states that, at the moment, in the case of the support title of the rural development programme, there is insufficient use of the possibilities provided by IT, and furthermore, it does not help to submit aid applications either, in many cases on the last day of the submission period, to carry out smaller or larger maintenance on the electronic surface of the paying agency, which often hinder the submission of tenders made at the last minute. My question is how, and if so, how and how to simplify the tendering and settlement systems. Article 6 § 2 provides that the sponsor shall establish and ensure the necessary conditions for effective action against irregularities. Well, it seems to have gone very well, because it is more than incredible that the number of projects affected by irregularities is so low in the rural development programme. I ask Minister how the government has been able to achieve that, in the case of agricultural investments, the application affected by the irregularity is almost zero. Article 15 is replaced by the following: § 2 provides for which data of beneficiaries constitutes public data in the public interest. I bring this up because, in this context, I would like to note that the supported project search platform is the main feature of the current Hungarian agricultural digitalisation. [[12.40]] The export of public data can only be used by users entering the SSO interface, they can only save the data in three hundred rows, moreover, after five minutes of trying, it is often impossible to access the interface, because the system is always tossing the user back to the home page. We know that the essence of digitalization is that all data can be found on the Internet. However, Hungarian digitalisation has such a strange feature in connection with this system that these data can be found in bulk, in a format that requires additional demand from the user so that he can search, organize, and look into them. So I would like to ask Minister when they will make the supported project seeker a simpler interface from a user point of view. Article 17 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 provides for the data to be transmitted from the different registers to the controller for control and identification purposes. I would like to ask Minister that these data will be requested by the data controller on paper or electronically. Let's move on to 26. This provides for the creation and termination of the agricultural support relationship. In many cases, the rural development programme financed by EAFRD support has already been said to the government as a foreign-funded election campaign, since the current support system is not capable of effectively fulfilling its task of allocating funds. If you have a good candidate, you will write a score that will certainly win, regardless of the background, capital power and opportunities of the company. Many of the Hungarian farmers have already said in many ways that ministers, ministers of state and pro-government representatives also act as tender outlets in their district. I ask you, therefore, that you will review the tendering system. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 describes control, the possibility of controlling beneficiaries. Here, let me quote very briefly János Lázár, who, as Minister for Agricultural and Rural Development, said to a written question:. When I mention the things that the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development is wearing, I do nothing but convey the messages that voters or applicants make in my direction. I note that if you follow my words, it is clear that I am critical not only in relation to one office, I still insist that it is a poor institutional culture if a public body, in this case the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, considers the candidate or voter to be a criminal and a fraud. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, This was written by János Lázár in connection with the checks. However, in any case, an agency distributing grants must protect financial interests, we believe, because OLAF, the European Union's activity in the area of budgetary control, is based on two basic principles: on the one hand, to ensure the proper use of the EU budget and, on the other hand, to protect the Union's financial interests and to combat fraud. Therefore, OLAF can also consider applicants to be criminals if we carry on this logical chain. Rather, we recommend that the inspectors be assisted and not hindered, especially by such government speeches. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § relates to the possibility of submitting an appeal. Experience has shown that no beneficiary can expect a short time limit for the submission of an application for review, which in many cases exceeds the tolerance. I ask, Minister, how do you intend to reduce the time for redress procedures? Art. 61. § 2 and this last one states that the agricultural and rural development support body shall keep a training register. I would like to ask Minister what practical benefits this training register has. I look forward to your honored answers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-11-11-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Béla Mihálffy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, As we have heard in the expozee, the Act before Parliament on the procedural arrangements for agricultural subsidies granted from the common agricultural policy and from the international budget aims to regulate the rights and obligations of the participating bodies, bodies, bodies, bodies carrying out executive tasks in a uniform manner, in their own procedural system, in order to ensure the legality, effectiveness and transparency of the procedures, and in order to ensure that the procedural rules on EU and domestic agricultural aid are put on a new basis in order to make decisions more transparent, efficient and modern. On 2 December 2021, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the rules for the support from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for the strategic plan for the common agricultural policy to be prepared by the Member States under the common agricultural policy, as well as the rules for support under Article 1305/2013. and repealing Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of 1307/2013 2021/2115. Regulation of the European Union on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and Regulation (EC) No 1306/2013 Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). a regulation introducing important changes in the implementation of the common agricultural policy between 2023 and 2027 in relation to the planning, management and evaluation of EU support for agriculture and rural development and other market regulation measures. The introduction of strategic plans at Member State level for the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development is a key element of the new legislation to be decided. This developed strategy allows Member States to adapt the provisions of the common agricultural policy to the real needs of the agricultural producer structure in Hungary. Another important element of the document is the appointment of a single national managing authority to manage the two funds mentioned above. This is a new element, as so far this has been the case for the rural development programme. It is an unchanged element of the regulation that payments from both CAP funds can be made through a designated paying agency per Member State. The work of accredited paying agencies and the use of EU funds shall be directly monitored by the Commission, assisted by the certification body. Where the Commission finds that CAP funds have not been used in accordance with Union rules or that the controls required for any supported measure have not been properly carried out, the Member State may expect significant financial withdrawals or may suspend the payment of advances and interim payments. The annual accounts of the paying agencies shall not be closed without a certificate and annual report issued by the certification body to the Commission. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has already been said, the adoption of the new regulation in the financial engineering period 2023-2027 requires the preparation of significant changes in the implementation system of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under national competence. The aim of the bill before us is to establish the laws of the Member States in order to make more transparent, efficient and modern decision-making in line with the EU rules for the new programming period. The transition to the support system for the new development period starting at the beginning of next year will create a uniform, modern and flexible approach. [[12.50]] The new regulation will simplify the changes to the institutional structure, and the procedures will be simplified. The legal area covered by the draft law is essentially based on the following three regulatory levels: firstly, the relevant European Parliament and Council regulations, Commission regulations, which include basic professional and financial provisions relating to the use of grants, should be applied directly. Secondly, it is necessary to ensure the enforcement of two aspects in the case of national legislation. On the one hand, it is necessary to avoid repeating EU legislation and, on the other hand, to regulate only those issues on which the directly applicable European Union act expressly authorises or does not prohibit. Under these frameworks, any legislation that the Member State's legal system considers necessary for the purpose of implementation can be created. Thirdly, it is based on the internal rules of the institutions involved in implementation, which include the tasks to be carried out and decision-making powers. This level is a prerequisite for the proper payment of agricultural aid. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill had to combine well-functioning elements of the two previous programming periods and eliminate the difficulties experienced. On the basis of what I have said, it is understandable that the bill contains framework rules, to sum up, very important practical experience in the use of the two financial bases of the CAP. I therefore believe that the bill contains eligible initiatives, so I ask you with respect to support the bill, like the KDNP fraction. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-11-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Bencze. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-55	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, We have here a long-awaited document, CAP 2023, subsidies from the common agricultural policy to Hungarian farmers. I asked a lawyer about the document, he said it was perfect, it is written entirely on today's Hungarian relations, so this is the best way to put it. They indicated a small catch to me that you can find on it, that transparency, that transparency. So it would be the real thing, it would be best if agricultural subsidies could be tracked down to the smallest possible detail of who ends up with who they end up with. In the document itself, we found so many errors, let's say, but nevertheless, it covers Hungarian reality, and that is the biggest mistake that we have come to today's Hungarian agricultural reality from 1990 to today's agricultural reality. Today, in Hungary, these subsidies, these support schemes favour the large estate structure in the first place, because since 1990 the promises that were made and made in 2010... During the campaign, I had a personal dispute with Pál Schmitt, and he promised there, in front of everyone, that it would never happen in Hungary that small farmers would be impossible and that a large estate structure would be created, or foreign ownership would be acquired; 2010. What happened since 2010? Yes, the EU-domestic is also domestic, with obstacles, but it can get to land. Minister, you just made a promise to look into the Zala County case, but there are plenty of them, and foreigners have land in their hands, and we'll signal them. The other is the estate structure. Since 2010, there has been a constant promise that the Hungarian soil, the Hungarian homeland, will be the basis for Hungarian rural survival, that there will be cooperatives, there will be a cooperative system, which will also serve rural survival. Here we stand in 2022, going through the Hungarian countryside, going through Somogy, Tolna, Baranya, elsewhere. Yes, there are window investments, there are square-stone marketplaces, and I can take you to places where there are no ancient farmers. I can take you to villages that are completely depopulated, and if you look at the structure of the land in your area, you can call it a red or orange agro baron. Well, please, this is what the 2022 reality brought to Hungary, and this should be improved somehow! These subsidies will not serve this improvement, in our view, but will only further strengthen the large estate system. The other thing that farmers have said here live, referring to my fellow Member, is that they do not find any irregularities, these are weapons. Weapons of subsidies, weapons of control against farmers. A farmer who dares to be dissatisfied with the current system will receive a check very quickly, going back five years, and will be punished very quickly. Everyone can make mistakes, and everyone can make mistakes. And this is what the Hungarian farmers, with whom we are talking, say to you that there are many problems in the system, and that these should be improved and that the concentration of the Hungarian estate should be removed, this form of what is. The countryside should be guaranteed the survival, the livelihood they have promised since 1990, and they have been promising exponentially since 2010. We would like to see something from this that the Hungarian countryside is not made up of depopulated houses, not of the new servants' system, and not of great estates, but of what we have said here in the protection of geographical origin, to make sure that there are real Hungarian small producers who provide families with the livelihood they will be able to pass on to their offspring for generations. I would like to see such a land structure, I would like to see such a Hungarian countryside, and I would ask you, because I can only ask you two-thirds of you here to do everything for me. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Ms Rebecca Szabó. [[Rebecca Szabó takes off her coat.]] I'll wait for you to stand up, Congresswoman. I see you're having trouble with your coat. You have the floor, please.
u2022-11-11-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, My problem with this proposal is exactly what the previous speaker mentioned, although he is only on the side, and I would like to refer most to it. Of course, it's got parts that are supposed to be eligible, but it's 15. For me, there is a section that, to be honest, I do not understand and I do not think is right. I think that this greatly reduces the transparency of the allocation of EU agricultural subsidies. By the way, if we look at who was the biggest supporter of agricultural subsidies in Hungary last year in 2021, then we see that in the first place there is Sándor Csányi with HUF 6 billion, and in the second place there is Lőrinc Mészáros and his various groups of companies with HUF 4.7 billion. The fact is that it clearly shows that this aid scheme is not working well, it does not achieve the function that I think it should achieve. I do not think that government representatives can really explain that someone who does not primarily live in agriculture and who does not need any support because of his wealth of hundreds or thousands of billions does not need any support, why should the taxes of Hungarian or European taxpayers be given the title of agricultural dotation. But the thing is, they won't have to deal with such explanations soon, because basically because of the amendment of the law, this whole money distribution will be part of a secret. How this is compatible with the rules of the Union, I really don't know. Of course, it must be for the rule of law, and it has been consulted with society, although I understand that there has been no social reconciliation of this bill, even though such promises have already been made to the European Commission. In any event, the point is that, on the basis of the paragraph on the secret of aid, if I understand it correctly and I would very much like to be refuted, the address of the beneficiaries may disappear from the public data, making it impossible to identify the smaller or larger winners. But the list is, by the way, beyond the biggest winners I've just mentioned, full of interesting names. For example, it often reveals that if we look at the list of these sponsors, that those who, a few years ago, had acquired the state land through the state land sale that was highly criticised by the Dialogue and the bids, had already received the purchase price back in a few years. So, in fact, the State did not make a good deal with this, and it was not justified in all cases that these lands were sold, or it was not right in the light of the land ownership policy that the Dialogue, as a green party, would be a proper land policy. [[13.00]] This amendment seems to serve to comply with an EU regulation, but I think that this was not actually a specific EU regulation, that the Union did not have a request that, in the public interest, either the name of the beneficiaries or a unique identifier on the basis of which the different winners... or, for example, the geographical number of the geography to which the aid applies, because only the settlement is listed here. So based on this, it will not be possible to sum up exactly who the people to whom the support goes, because if their name is there, I don't know... There are common names in Hungary [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Like the Szabó!]] Many people with similar names can receive EU support, land-based or other agricultural support, and will not be able to be effectively reviewed on this basis. The thing is, unfortunately, this secrecy fits into the line we have seen over the last 12 years that you are building a large-owner Hungary. A typical rural settlement in Hungary today again looks like there are some big farmers, and there are others who can choose to go to work as day laborers or go to the cities or try their luck abroad. The population conservation power of villages and land, which would otherwise have been the main objective of land management, did not increase, but decreased, while the size of large estates, which is already unhealthy in a large European comparison, continued to increase and the number of people living on the ground continued to decrease. You remember that between 2010-2014, even your government started with another message, and you said that you wanted to give land to local farmers, and you said at first that you did not want to have a huge concentration of property, and then after leaving the government, József Ángyán turned out that, unfortunately, this was not the real situation. So, in fact, I have to say that this secrecy may be appropriate to conceal the maladministration of a failed land policy, which, in my view, is contrary to national interests, but it will not really change reality, few will receive much, and many will receive very little in this system. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The corruption monitoring organisation K-Monitor collects every year how these agricultural subsidies develop. Over the last ten years, some 7,000 billion forints have been distributed as subsidies in agriculture. More than 70 per cent of direct aid goes to the top 10 per cent of beneficiaries, who would not actually need any substantial support because they are agricultural capitalists. And although a ceiling for area payments was in principle introduced from 2014, this unfortunately did not significantly change the distribution of agricultural subsidies in practice. Unalterably, the biggest winning groups can receive support over a few billion forints. Ironically, the land for farmers! In fact, as József Ángyán accurately pointed out, the land was acquired by Fidesz-neighbors under suspicious conditions and was immediately used by large plants in the area. The final beneficiaries of the land subsidies are the same as the Hungarian large enterprise and parallel. Meanwhile, we see that the structure of food production is also distorted, small producers are increasingly less divided, the concentration of land is accelerating, and the Hungarian food market is dominated by some really large capital groups. I think that, as I have already said, you did not promise this when you came to power, and according to the Dialogue, as we have said many times before, the primary aim of agricultural subsidies would be to help to shift to responsible, environmentally sound farming methods and to compensate for the potential disadvantages arising from sustainable farming, to encourage and promote the environmentally sound exploitation of areas that are in line with landscape conditions, which are small-scale and which are used to preserve natural resources, biodiversity, agriculture, environmental management, organic farming and protected areas. There are also social goals to help keep the population in rural areas, to start young farmers, and to manage people who are willing to farm organically. So I think, unfortunately, that is not what the Hungarian agricultural system, either the land policy or the support system is aiming at, and that you are actually making the research and publicity of agricultural subsidies much more difficult now, this does not change in itself the policy of the land they are pursuing, but it changes that this knowledge, this knowledge, will not be able to get out to the public from now on, and it is possible that, obviously, there is not so much of Sándor Csányi and Lőrinc Mészáros, so that their agricultural subsidies can only be aggregated by the family and first name of the natural person or by the name of their companies, but basically, I think that this will certainly reduce transparency and transparency, therefore, because of this part, we cannot support the bill. But I very much hope that they will be able to make this clear with the implementing regulation, whether by amendment or later, because it would be very, very important not only to ensure transparency, but also that Hungarian agriculture really takes steps in the direction of biodiversity and nature conservation towards the preservation of the landscape as a whole, as well as agricultural subsidies, which are not necessarily the direct area payments, weigh on this and try to focus on this within the framework of the European Union, to achieve sustainable agriculture, sustainable food production and to promote the spread of organic farming. I don't see that for myself in this draft. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-11-11-58	Thank you. Hello, everyone. I've taken over the seat. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, from the KDNP Group, for a two-minute comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I would like to respond to Ms Rebecca Szabó in a few sentences. On the one hand, the large owners you mentioned and much more widely mentioned here with a billion dollars of land revenue... 3.5 percent of the total annual subsidy amount goes to such large owners. So we can see that most of the support, the focus, is not here in these sources. If you look at the European Union directive, which you have brought here now, Minister, to put into the domestic legal order, that is exactly what it contains as public data. 11 types of public data, the name of the natural person, the legal person, the municipality, the amount of the unrealised aid and the amount of the aid not received are included. So I think this bill is in full compliance with the EU directive, honourable Member. But I also offer that in a year's time we will appreciate the fact that in Jászkarajenő there will be 17 pieces of Rebecca Szabó, all of whom have received agricultural subsidies, and of which 17 of Rebecca Szabó's Jászkarajenős will not be able to figure out who she is... so your address is not a public, honourable Member. For example, you have to enter in your property statement only a district where you have real estate assets. Now you want everyone's address to be out in this way. I think I agree with the aims of strengthening family economies, but I also know the Minister who works for this and agrees with these goals. As far as your practical criticism is concerned, this 11 public data is listed in the EU Directive, so we are fulfilling our legal obligation here, which is what the EU directive would have to do. Besides, we can agree with the principles that we need to strengthen these family economies. I think that this has also been the case in recent years with a number of applications and a number of efforts, such as changes to the legislation on family businesses. You were here at the time. Thank you.
u2022-11-11-60	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to János Bencze, from the Jobbik Group, for a further speech.
u2022-11-11-61	Mr President, Dear Minister, I would like to add a little bit to my comment, highlighting today's Hungarian reality in terms of subsidies, property structure and opportunities. I'm an earthbound man, I mean literally, I live near the ground and out of the ground. Theoretically, we have taken it out and I recommend it to your attention that if we call it a young farmer who does not have a square foot of land, but who is enthusiastic, wants to stay in the countryside, wants to live where his ancestors were born, we would try to make a farmer, what he needs first. Let's say you can buy good quality agricultural land, 50 acres. That's all it takes to start a farmer in a person. This is about 150 million forints; 3 million forints acre. This is a very nice amount, it will never be available to an average Hungarian citizen. So he needs a site, he needs a machine, he needs an input investment. The farmers told me that if we count the whole thing very thinly, on a completely theoretical level, that's the other 100 million. [[13.10]] So we are talking about 250 million forints, that if a young man or young woman in today's Hungary wants to sit on a tractor and do so strictly by himself, because 50 hectares will only bring enough money to make a living for a family as a salary, it should have 250 million forints from somewhere! And I don't want to put this as a criticism, I just want to show you the trap that young Hungarians living in the countryside today, who want to stay in the country, fall into. They can't leave. This would be necessary in Jobbik's opinion for a state land program that first brings these people to the ground. Not like when they first distributed the state land to a hobbyist in front of a pig farm. This happened in Tolna County Iregszegcse, so it is a practical example. I would like to see, in the future, if anyone is sitting here in this House talking about rural livelihoods, land programmes, let us think about their reality and act accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-11-62	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Rebeka Szabó for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Well, the fact is that in the EU report, in which you are actually trying to comply, it is indeed these 11 items that are required to be published, but the research report also states that aid schemes cannot be compared without uniform data communication, and that without identification codes or data it is impossible to establish a final beneficiary of an aid. If you don't want to publish an address, it's okay to have codes for individual beneficiaries, so it could be solved by saying that you don't put an address here, you put codes, and that's how you can isolate, say, the names match between the different beneficiaries. Moreover, if reference is made to the Union, it is certain that it was not among the EU's requests to create a so-called subsidy secret and to classify certain data as a subsidy secret. So I think that, unfortunately, you have done it again, that there has been an EU proposal, and you have extracted what is right for you. They're discreet about what's not in your best interest, and they've added extra stuff that doesn't fit. But the bigger problem is not that it does not comply with the EU report, but the bigger problem is that, in my opinion, it causes intransparency and makes it difficult to monitor who and how agricultural subsidies are received in Hungary today.
u2022-11-11-64	Thank you. I give the floor to Tamás Herczeg, from the Fidesz Group, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. What does this draft legislation mean for us legislators? It is basically about how Hungary, Hungarian agriculture, Hungarian farmers can obtain and obtain the resources they deserve, and what it is about farmers, the countryside, or the farmers in the region, for Hungarian farmers in the next programming period. It is also about preserving competitiveness, and farmers can aim not only at preserving it, but also at increasing it and increasing it. It is also about climate protection for the country, it is also about combating the adverse effects of climate change, it is about access to resources, and the financial funds that open up to farmers provide assistance of immeasurable importance, and this is what it is all about. For young farmers, it is about staying at home, and it also means getting well at home. We now have a framework regulation in a well-timed way. In order to look at how support for agriculture has developed in the European Union over the past decades, we can see that it reached 66 percent in the 80s to 90s and now it is somewhere around 31 percent. This is why what Minister said is of particular importance, the extent to which the Hungarian state provides additional resources for Hungarian agriculture. So this is a law that is very important to the people in the countryside. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-11-11-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is hereby closed. I would like to ask Minister if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Miniszer. You have the floor.
u2022-11-11-67	Yes, of course. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for your comments, suggestions, comments and support for this bill. I would like to make a few general points about all the speeches, and then I will discuss them in detail. The common agricultural policy is one of the oldest policies in the European Union. The point of the common agricultural policy is that it is common. We need to compromise, not national. Moreover, the compromise is not even about the 27 agricultural ministers sitting at a table, and they decide, because it would be simpler. It's not easy, it's not easy, but it's always easier to tie than what's real. The reality is that when the 27 agricultural ministers come to an agreement, there is still the Commission. And when we can reach an agreement with the Commission, then Parliament comes, which, if there is a community of people who are disoriented from life, is the community of the European Parliament that they want to force on us on the agricultural line there. We've had very difficult negotiations. And by the time this trilogy is born, well, you're looking at the implementation of that here on paper, how we can regulate that. So everything you say and let me return to Rebeka Szabó, which you criticize, is literally a transplanted part of EU legislation. You know, we're gonna do this the same way we're gonna bring you here in another case, because it's completely parallel to the example of our assets. Is that right? They were screaming snake frogs and snake frogs at home for a fortune return, and you're so inaccessible. And then we said, "All right, let's go over the European Parliament's assets, because that's perfect." We took over, and you're in shock, and, uh, there's nothing in that. Really? So I ask that I understand, and that is why I do not want to continue to add to the political color of things, that everyone, in accordance with their political position and meeting point, will, of course, express their views on this issue or their opposition, but I would ask you to look at your excuses on property policy and on Hungarian agriculture one by one. We can't annihilate history from what we're talking about here on the right, which we're talking about on the liberal side, please, because history has happened to us. There was a socialist type of agriculture, which destroyed the small economies, was guilty. I'm a kula kid, too! They classified my parents as kulas. They took everything we had. Everything! We're groundbreakers. Our farm's been knocked down. My whole life, we've been suffering from a situation like that. I don't have any land. They took everything we had. It was a system like that because they were afraid of an independent, thinking, independent peasant. Think about it. Is the word peasant positive or negative? What were the markers all along? ! Yes, we grew up in this society! And you think this doesn't affect the estate structure? ! They took it! And they always compare it very tricky, cleverly with Austria! Of course! A country in a better historical constellation, where the economy has been passed on from father to son for a hundred years. Of course it's possible. That's what we want! That's what we want. But on top of that, at the time of the change of regime, there was a historical justice. We had to make a compromise back then. Did the earth have value? The land had no value. You do now! [[13.20]] How much work did it take to make the earth worthwhile? It's very heavy. So every time criticism is made, you should not look at a particular segment, but look at the contexts of history, because there is no other way. How can we take it... say 2010, but every land there owns property! [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] Well, you can't take it, you can't put it together, you have contracts, you have rental rights. (Rebeth Szabó intervenes.) Yeah, state property's on lease. He can't take it, he's got a lease, he's got a contract. So you can't just look at a particular moment, you have to look at a historical process. And if they're fair to us, they see in the historical process how much we strengthen the smallest. Let us look at the aid content of this: in addition to the basic support, we give the smallest, plus EUR 80, and then we give 40 more to farmers of family economic size. But let us tell you: we also give the youngest children around 140 euros. We pay 64 percent more for those who are in AKG, 46 percent more for those who are in the EKG, and 64 percent more for those who are in the EKG, so we do everything we can to make them. Supporting the smallest. I think there is only one tender across Europe that we give EUR 15,000 without a contribution, just to cultivate the garden, start with one hectare, two, three, ten goats to make 20 of them, two cows to make 6; we give EUR 15,000 to people to do it. So we are doing everything we can; that is why we are building the markets to have where the product is being moved so that the buyer and the producer can meet each other, so that we can give a living and an income supplement. So this is real rural development. But you have to admit, we have to make fashion out of how people cultivate the garden, because what are they doing in the village today? They're pushing the lawnmower and circling the tujabokro. It can't be allowed, but it's a process, and we're on it, look at it: it's going beautifully one after another; and how the Hungarian gastronomy has been renewed, how the Hungarian market has been renewed and the Hungarian farmland world has been renewed, thanks to the fact that the craft products have come, that we have been able to embrace the original production. And look at the last four years, for which we say, I was the only one responsible here, how we were able to start the undivided abolition of the common law on family farms or farming, how we were able to amend the law on family farms, so that we could provide for a living, and at the end of the cycle, how the opportunity to transfer family farms came. They all helped to strengthen rural survival, rural life and the local economy, and that finally the first generation to decide freely, after his father, the boy wants to carry on the family economy. That's what all of our actions were about, and now we're here to strengthen the smallest, all of it. So when criticism is made, you might want to add this segment, because it makes the whole thing round, and that's how it really can be interpreted. Our fellow Member Balázs Barkóczi also thinks, according to his meeting point, that a grant may be either a tender or a ground-based grant campaign theme. If they weren't, they would be, but that can't be timed. An investment that we're discussing right now has a seven-year period. This is even more difficult in a two-year transitional period. It's a limited matter. We have to account for every last euro cent and the very hard forints of the added Hungarian budget. Investments must be carried out and closed. So they are not scheduled for an election cycle or campaign at all, so I strongly reject this. Development of the IT system. This is also included in the proposal and is essential as the new system needs to be updated. The criticism you quoted from our fellow minister is more than ten years of criticism. We also admit that since then, the MVH has been integrated into the Treasury's organization and is in a completely different operation. The fact that some of the criticism systems were long was also due to the fact that it was precisely when we converted, because the criticism of the application system was critical, so we had to switch to another application system. The accreditation of this other tendering system took more than six months. Until then, of course, it was not possible to advertise tender results, so this was there. But if you ask the farmers now, they will see that in a maximum of three months, everyone will be notified of the successful or rejected application. The fact that the level of irregularities was low: let me tell you that this has a reading other than what you have tried to raise. The honor of those working in agriculture, of those peasants, is the greatest treasure there is. They don't do gentlemanly mischief, they produce, they work with their two hands every day, they fight their battles, they fight their efforts against elementary forces in nature. They have no reason to be naughty, to do tricks with all sorts of things; they are glad to receive, to work hard and do it. That's why there are fewer, and that I'm telling the truth, it's justified that you look at the percentage of bank inlays, the percentage of loan repayment: by exerting all your strength, trying to do so to the last penny, and the minimalest person who can fall in, is bankrupt, or can't repay you. So this is absolutely infinitely typical of Hungarian agriculture, the peasant world. He's been critical of the management of the training register. I must say that, as strange as it may be, it is required by EU law that we also have to introduce and use it. Let me say to my better fellow Member, János Bencze, that we are in favour of the great estate structure as an accusation. That is what I would like to reject most strongly, because, as I said, history cannot be annihilated, we cannot pretend that we are not in a certain momentary capacity. And the fact that we're working on the fact that farmers who got their hands on the regime when they got old can now give their sons the economy, that's the number one aspect. In order for the boys to take over, we have to do everything we can. Our future and the strengthening of all rural Hungary depend on the success of the generation change. And if we can do that, then we'll have the first generation that gives me a very big opportunity, because we have to overcome the market disadvantages between the smaller and the bigger. We need to work out how economies with differences in size can get to the market. Because at the time of the change of regime, our fathers, our grandfathers brought that wound, the wound from the cooperative concept, that they were forced into the cooperative, they were beaten into the co-operative, so cooperation, integration, and alliance, unfortunately, will tear up a wound in the soul of that generation. In addition, after the change of regime, as a result of their first faith, as a result of their good intentions, let's remember how many of them went to waste and were fooled, see the goose case, and we could name these things. Terrible crimes occurred there at the time of the change of regime in connection with integration, at the expense of farmers. [[13.30]] But the next generation has no such negative experience. It is our historic responsibility to encourage this new generation by all means to want producer cooperation. Because what's in our interest? It is in our interest that, regardless of size, the goods, the product can be transferred to the processing industry to have a basis for goods, because it is the appropriate quantity and quality of goods that guarantee us that then our food supply will be okay, that we will have the right amount of exports, and that it can generate the income that the entire Hungarian agriculture can go with, and that will bring back rural survival. It's a matter of principle that we can go through with this. So this common agricultural policy rule system, which is ahead of us and the philosophy of all of this, is based on this: so that we can strengthen and bind the new generation, so that we can finally develop a social layer that, thanks to our fortunate historical development, I hope will be able to bring about a strong host society that will give the country its backbone. Without it, the country will be lost. That must be prevented. All I'm asking you to do is not ask us why not now. Because there are rules, because there are historical processes. We have to go with the process. I only told you this curve of the whole process to understand that our intentions, our actions are all understood and seen in this segment, and we are working with all our efforts to achieve this. Then it'll be fine. Let me tell Rebecca Szabó that what she criticized is literally transposed from EU rules. So we didn't invent it ourselves, and we don't have any intention of concealing it at all, because all the activities are open, all the data can be found, only good intentions and attention are required. Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal as much as possible after the detailed debate, because it is about the renewal of the Hungarian countryside and the possibility of raising the economic society. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-11-68	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. A general discussion of the bill on the implementation of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's single budget for 2021 will follow. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/105 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-11-11-69	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, By 31 May 2021, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority submitted a proposal on the implementation of its budget for 2021 in accordance with legal requirements. At its meeting on 30 May, the Committee on Budgets discussed and submitted the proposal to the Parliament. At the committee meeting, the Authority was adopted by 11 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. As usual, the draft closing accounts report the implementation of a total of four different budgets, including the accounts of the NMHH, the Media Council, the appropriations managed by the Media Council and MTVA. The NMHH essentially covers its expenditure from two sources, on the one hand from own revenue and on the other from budgetary contributions. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: The National Assembly approved the expenditure and revenue appropriations for the budget of the NMHH in 2021 by HUF 40.7 billion. The budget expenditure was HUF 51.7 billion compared to this. This was explained by the expenditure items related to the development of the data wipe application installed by the authority in the meantime, as well as the payments related to the implementation of the equipment replacement support programme. The budget revenues amounted to HUF 46.2 billion. The budget of the Media Council was HUF 246.8 million, and the revenue was HUF 213.1 million, both slightly less than the initial allocation. This is explained by the measure which offsets the economic impact of the corona virus, which exempted media service providers from their obligation to pay in 2021. The third budget shall be the budget of the appropriations for expenditure and revenue managed by the Media Council. This includes revenue billed by the Media Council but relating to MTVA. Here, too, it can be concluded that, in contrast to the HUF 617.2 million modified appropriation, performance is slightly less than HUF 616.5 million. The fourth, the largest item is the budget of MTVA. The expenditure of MTVA can be divided into two large groups. One group, which is not related to content production activities, is typically passed on by MTVA to operate various organizations or distributes them through tenders, which amounted to HUF 8 billion in 2021. The other significant part is expenditure related to content production activities, which totalled HUF 105.8 billion. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I believe that the prepared discharge bill and the related justification provide Parliament with sufficient detail to ensure that the budget for 2021 is met. At the same time, I would like to note that all four accounts were audited by an independent auditor, and in their report it was found that the accounts submitted provide a real and reliable picture of the management in 2021, the financial situation. In view of the above, I would ask my fellow Members to discuss the proposal and to adopt it by their vote in favour. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-11-11-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to present a position during the debate. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Bodo, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Fidesz Group supports the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's bill of discharge for 2021. It is also important for us to emphasise that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is an independent regulatory body. According to the Media Act, the Authority's single budget, as has been said in the proposal, contains four different budgets. Thus, one is the budget of NMHH, the second is the budget of the Media Council, the third is the appropriations managed by the Media Council, and the fourth is the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, i.e. MTVA. It was found that the President of the NMHH prepared the bill by the deadline laid down in the Act and sent it through the parliamentary IT system, which reports on this, i.e. the implementation of the uniform budget for 2021. It provided information on the completion of the preparatory and four separate budgets. The revenue and expenditure appropriations for the Authority's budget for 2021 amounted to HUF 40.7 billion. Budget revenues were reached in 2021 at HUF 46.2 billion. Overall, this shows an output of 113,6 percent compared to the initial allocation. The Authority's total budget expenditure was HUF 51.7 billion, which represents an excess of 27.1 percent compared to the original total. With regard to the Media Council's operating budget, the budget expenditure of HUF 246.8 million shows the 38,5 percent of the initial appropriations. Budget revenues amounted to HUF 213.1 million, which is 33.2% of the initial appropriations. [[13.40]] The reason for the significant underachievement is that the government exempted media service providers from the obligation to pay the media service fee for 2021 in order to compensate for the economic effects of the coronal virus. The budget of the revenue and expenditure appropriations in the management of the Media Council shall comprise the revenue in respect of MTVA, which has been billed by the Media Council, but permanently. In the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, the planned budget revenue amounted to HUF 109.9 billion, while commercial revenues amounted to HUF 7.8 billion. The total planned revenue was HUF 117.7 billion. Budget revenues were achieved by HUF 109 billion in 2021, commercial revenues were achieved by HUF 6.7 billion, while the public service reserve of the previous year was used by HUF 1 billion. The total budget expenditure amounted to HUF 115.7 billion, while the public service reserve established in 2021 was HUF 1 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, All four accounts were audited, as has been said, by an independent auditor, and in their report it was found that the accounts submitted show a real and reliable picture of the management and financial situation in 2021. Furthermore, as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, I would also like to inform my fellow Members that, after the general debate has been concluded, we will hold a detailed debate on the bill at the Committee on Culture next Tuesday. I would also like to inform you that, when we are discussing these accounts, the President of the Media Authority is regularly present at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, and this will obviously also be the case at the committee meeting next week. If my fellow Members have professional questions about closing accounts, they may ask the Committee on Culture next Tuesday to answer them immediately, Mr President and his colleagues. Obviously, I look forward to this from my fellow Members. On this basis, as I stressed at the beginning of my speech, the Fidesz Group supports and I urge you to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2022-11-11-72	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We've listened to the numbers about the media world in Orbán, but it's worth going to the bottom of the story. If we already have such a bill before us, we should also talk about the fact that there is freedom of the press in Hungary today. Well, we have to establish that there is no freedom of the press in Hungary, and I am not only saying that, but also the report by Freedom House. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yeah, even that?]] , which converted the press relations in Hungary from the completely free-of-charge to the free-of-charge group. In addition, the situation that currently exists around the media in Hungary is, among other things, an obstacle to Hungary's access to EU funds, which we see having a brutal impact on the Hungarian economy as a whole, and the intention of the Orbán government to improve this situation in any way is not apparent. I remember when Viktor Orbán lost the election in 2002, he improvised a rally, a demonstration in the Freedom Square, in which he demanded a public television from the opposition to Fidesz, that if they could no longer repeat the victory of 98 and the first Orbán government failed, at least give them the possibility of continuing presence in the field of public media. Of course, the government, which took place between 2002 and 2010, maintained this opportunity for the opposition at all times, in every debate programme where members of the government spoke, there was always an opportunity for opposition representatives to express their views at the same time on live television. After 2010, there was a dramatic turn of events, and the situation was that Fidesz expropriated the public service press, the public service media, which is why now we can no longer see it as a public service as a mockery, since what is now operating as a public service in Hungary is mostly a public service label. The media where opposition politicians cannot appear or speak, do not appear on a single news programme, and if opposition politicians are mentioned at all on public radio and public television, then, of course, they can only be achieved by some negative dehonesting signal or by some kind of news structure, there is no other option. This is true, for example, even in cases where teachers, parents, students form a living chain in Budapest, half the city stands, there are protests in many parts of the country, and this is not reported by public radio or public television. This is called forgery and silence, and it has nothing to do with calling the press free in Hungary. The problem is compounded by the fact that opposition opinions cannot be heard in commercial radios. Those who prefer not daily news, but rather, rather, to entertain or listen to music when they hear the news service, of course they only listen to pro-government eulogys in two or three minutes, and then the music starts. Opponent opinion, opposition press conference never happens in any case. I stress: never! But this is also the case in the world of county newspapers that still exist. Here, for example, the same article appears on a particular page, with the same photo of Viktor Orbán on the same page of all the pages, from Battonya to Nemes beares, so it is not different by accident. This gesture to enhance media consumption practices in roughly North Korea cannot in any way be regarded as a celebration of freedom of the press. The story is also extremely dramatic, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech, because Hungary is currently in a position where it would need every euro in existence to try to emerge from the economic and livelihood crisis created by the Orbán government. This would, of course, require EU funds which are being held back for, among other things, violations of the freedom of the press, and for this reason, Hungary is not considered as a rule of law. This situation must be changed sooner or later, and this type of operating model cannot in any way be implemented in this form. It has also happened that someone, let's say, has been released from the public television workshop, let's use this noble term here, and then he tells us that they will receive the news with direct manual control, and they will be told that those who do not serve the interests of Fidesz will not be able to work there in the future. In what way do we consider the freedom of the press criterion that Internet portals, which serve the interests of Fidesz and, of course, receive strong budget support, do nothing with opposition parties but constantly publish de-honest articles about their representatives? Government representatives are not asked one question that might apply to certain government decisions. It seems for them there is a power that does everything perfectly, and there is an opposition that must be constantly tried to crush. It is not a coincidence if we look at the data that describe the world of press orientations and compensations, that thousands of press lawsuits have been lost by pro-government organs, but the problem is that they knew exactly when the slanderous article about the politician was published that it was not true what they were saying. [[13.50]] But it's okay, in a year's time, if the court says it, by then that party or politician could have been discredited or tried to embarrass him. These are also not about respect for freedom of the press in Hungary. And then I'm not even referring to the conversation that happened on one of the televisions a few days ago, where they were talking about an elected mayor in an amazing, facial toaster tone with the staff of a fidesz media channel. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's the point!]] And then, of course, the next day, the same person confirmed it with an even more harsh expression. So I say that until there is a fair and fair press in Hungary, there is no democracy or democracy in Hungary, there is no free choice in Hungary, because as long as the press is not free, there is no free choice. In the two-thirds system of the Hungarian electorate in Orbán there is no equal opportunity to access the news sources, knowingly shut millions of Hungarians away from Hungarian reality, the reality of the economy, the reception of the news service, and this also seriously harms Hungary's already ruined authority. The Democratic Coalition, of course, will not support the formation of the world of Orbán and its budget. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-74	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We can see from the reports and figures that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority did a very high-quality, meaningful professional work in 2021, and contributed to making the work, learning, leisure, orientation, entertainment and privacy more efficient and meaningful for the Hungarian people. The expenditure and revenue sides of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority have already been described in detail by my fellow Member Lajos Szűcs and the reasons for the overshooting of the expenditure side. At the same time, I would like to talk about one or two projects launched or carried on by the NMHH in 2021, as there are examples of projects that I believe and I will discuss in the next debate that need to be continued. The Hír-Közmű project is one of the important professional activities of NMHH. The aim of the Hír-Közmű project is to establish Hungary's single national register of communications infrastructure on the basis of a spatial information database. In the long term, NMHH, in cooperation with market participants, in cooperation with the establishment and maintenance of the system, will, in addition to regulatory regulatory aspects, help to meet growing public and Union data requirements and to complete public electronic administration. The system will also benefit the population, as the database will be able to search for, for example, what communications service providers can be accessed in a given location. Service providers, designers and government will have more detailed access to networks that are limited and controlled in line with their market role, such as spinal cords, main distribution points. The Hír-Közmű creates an unprecedented data asset by building a single database of the entire communication system in Hungary, which can be measured in its significance by the land registry system. This will affect the entire communications sector, including the entire Hungarian economy. The other important program in the NMHH is up to the Net! It is also a project called NMHH's mobile exchange support programme. The NMHH mobile phone exchange and device replacement support programme lasts until 31 March 2023, where 2G and 3G mobile phones can be replaced with a discount of 40,000 forints, with faster internet access. The NMHH is also linked to the switch-off plan of the 3G networks of mobile operators with this important, beneficial and useful programme of the population. After the 2G devices have been included in the initiative since May 2022, the amount of support has increased to HUF 40,000 and the ceiling of HUF 120 thousand has been abolished. Therefore, the programme's main objective is to ensure that stakeholders are not disadvantaged by the future deployment of 3G technology. Last year, NMHH carried out a number of major projects to strengthen media awareness and understanding. The NMHH continued its highly successful project, the establishment and maintenance of the Magic Valley Media Education Centres in 2022. I spoke about this at the same debate last year. These Magic Valley media education centers were created to support media literacy education for 9-16-year-olds with an experiential program. The first such centre was opened in Budapest in 2014 and followed it in Debrecen, and in 2020 the Magic Valley Centre was completed in Sopron. In these centers, students can learn about the media's decision-making situation in a playful and experiential way through the management of qualified, competent instructors. Every year, the full-day interactive programme for school groups, classes and grades is becoming more popular among students, and more than ten thousand students have attended these sessions each year to see what the NMHH spends its budget on. Several materials and educational videos of these educational centres are already available online, where youtubers popular among young people make interesting awareness-raising and awareness-raising videos on the subject of the media, e.g. the practice of detecting and detecting false news. In recent years, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority has taken serious steps to protect minors against online harassment and abuse. The NMHH internet hotline service is outstanding, which is a legal assistance service operated by NMHH to report illegal or harmful content to minors. There will always be a debate with the other side on the issue of the press, the media. I would also like to respond to Zsolt Gréczy's sentences, but I think it is in common interest that we recognise the importance of these legal assistance services, of media literacy and media awareness services for minors, and of child protection on the Internet, as regards child protection in the media, I think that this is also a common goal for which we must work and which programmes must continue. In the context of NMHH's hotline legal aid service, we can say that such a system is needed, as notifications are constantly growing, and such an online legal assistance service is needed. This is largely due to the fact that the NMHH also launched a campaign to promote legal assistance among minors, especially between 11 and 16 years of age, increasing the awareness of young people online. Most of the cases here are data abuse, pretending to be large companies by different data-fishing persons or organisations. We have all encountered such e-mails, requests or unauthorised publication and data abuse in most reports. I think that such a media campaign and promotion campaign for 11-18 years of age are absolutely necessary. Therefore, in 2021 the SOS Children's Village renewed its partnership with Hungary and continued the joint projects that started. After examining the notifications, both Internet hotline and NMHH staff have obviously taken the necessary steps. I think that we can also see from the priority projects that NMHH has managed responsibly, that the money has been put in a good place, that it has served media awareness and the protection of minors, and that projects that are useful and important for the population have been introduced, so the KDNP fraction will support the closing account. But allow me to respond a little to what Congressman Zsolt Gréczy said, because he is a representative of the party that operates and operates the largest waste-paper network in Hungary's history, ezelanyeg.hu. It is practically published daily from the DK Press Center to see what embarrassing articles should be created locally, how individual representatives should be expelled from the Fidesz-KDNP circles. The Member said that there is no freedom of the press in Hungary, which is obviously not true, because everyone can express their views, press organisations can describe what they think, and that the press in Hungary is even more diverse than in many other European countries. If you have already mentioned the elected mayor of Budapest, then Zsolt Gréczy believes that it is okay for a mayor to decide who is in the profession, and a mayor to decide whether or not to be a journalist, to decide whether or not to be a chimney sweeper, he can decide whether or not to be a bus driver. How do you feel about freedom of the press about a left-wing mayor telling you who's in the business and who's in the business? I think that is exactly what cannot be done, honourable Member. You may also remember in the campaign that a question was sent to Ferenc Gyurcsány about an innocent press inquiry, an interview, who then threatened that journalist with a lawsuit? You've already written down the result of the lawsuit in your Facebook post Will there be a lawsuit? You will. Will we win? Yes! So he already knows the judicial judgments. Ferenc Gyurcsány is threatening journalists who dare ask him questions. So if you're asking me if there's freedom of the press in the tiny villa, there's definitely no freedom there. [[14.00]] Your ally, András Fekete-Győr, said that right-wing journalists should be banned from their profession, for example, how does this fit into your image of freedom of the press? Or we can also see the threads that come together in a small village in Zemplén, Szegi, where DatAdat, DK's European Parliament's paying place and even the rag paper meet together in a small village in Zemplén. These raise serious questions, my fellow Members, but we certainly do not accept a lecture from DK on freedom of the press, who boycott mediums, who classify journalists, who threaten journalists, we do not accept lectures from them. I think that the Hungarian press and the Hungarian media situation is very colourful, more colourful than many other Europeans or other countries in the world, and I think that the programmes that I have talked about, and which this budget is about, Zsolt Gréczy did not talk about the budget, but that they should continue. That is why we are going to accept the closing report, because NMHH has used the resources available to it to implement such programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-11-76	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, it is clear that, as this day began, it does not continue as Imre Ritter, advocate for today's agricultural legislative proposals, primarily agricultural ones, noted the many similarities between the opposition and the pro-government representatives, and what a cultural debate we could have, and we agreed on a lot of things. Well, it is clear that, now and in my view, at the next item on the agenda, this nihil is supposed to disappear, even if it should not be, because we are essentially discussing a subject that should be about public service, which could have the same right for the opposition as for the parties to the government, although unfortunately, it is not the case. My apologies in advance, Mr President, as regards the fact that, after I know that the budget of the NMHH is due for the following year, I should still be a little more integrated and obviously touch upon the two issues in return for the budget I promise you that I will no longer speak on the next item. Well, with regard to the proposals before us, NMHH, the Media Council, the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund for 2021, and obviously, as I said, slightly linked to our next item on the agenda, contains the plans for 2023. But we can put it in a shorter way if I give you the title and I have to give you this title: a budget for wasteful and propaganda costs in the past and in the future. Let us look at the way in which organisations loyal to the government, which have not had much to do with public service in the past, although that would be their main task, by the way. In view of the various items, it can be seen that in the so-called public media, the pencil was indeed very thick on each line, which could not be a coincidence that the country was actually ahead of the parliamentary elections, and that, in that period, the media authority was certainly able to devote considerable amounts in this respect to raising the news, which, I repeat, were far from public service. The National Assembly increased the public service contribution from 75 billion to 85 billion by 2020, and in 2021 this increased to HUF 100 billion.In 2022, this amount increased to HUF 110 billion, and in terms of personal benefits and real estate expenses, these figures also show an amazing increase. The amount of labour expenditure in 2020 was almost 60 billion forints, which already exceeded in 2021, although this was achieved at a lower rate than the planned 70 billion, but let us not forget that, by the way, this tremendously large amount of money after the waves of the Covid epidemic, at the time of the difficult start-up of the economy, was able to be scattered by the media authority, and, well, let us admit, primarily to propaganda, in the year when we saw hundreds of thousands of families were in a difficult situation when businesses got into a very serious problem when very many people became unemployed, and, well, the government didn't exactly come to their aid, but rather pumped it into the propaganda organization. It is worth noting, moreover, that the local government sector was in a similar difficult situation during the same period, but they could not experience similar assistance as they had experienced at NMHH, or even, where appropriate, withdrawal of local governments, just to think that even the solidarity tax could have doubled, or that the business tax was significantly withdrawn from the municipalities. In terms of personal benefits, we do not see too much rigour, as the fund has over 20 billion in expenditure and has even exceeded the pre-planned threshold. The press also found out about the rewards and severance payments in public media, so we may not be surprised that there is an epidemic here, there is an economic crisis there, there are sectors, there are certain people who do not really need to, or have to be excited about, or in the future, how they solve their financial daily lives. And if we look at the budget planned for next year, we can see that the public service contribution remains close to the same, but on some lines the upward trend remains, at least the staff expenditure of the fund will increase by 10 percent, from 22 billion to more than 24 billion, and the personal benefits of NMHH will increase from 11 billion to 13.5 billion forints. MTVA, or television and radio, which, in the past, saw better weather, because in 2010 the amount that you will give to this organization with taxpayers' money will certainly rise to 126 billion forints, more effectively, more impartially, in a much more recognised and even internationally recognised manner. You are also not very interested in the fact that, while the budget is going to increase five to six times the amount that will be spent, the number of viewers is moving in the opposite direction, because today we can say that much fewer people are watching Fidesz TV for public television, so let's add that it is not by accident, because they simply, you could say, have reduced the Hungarian public media to a party mouthpiece. So, next year you will pour 126 billion forints into a system in which, yes, Zsolt Gréczy was telling the truth about the fact that there are the forgery, the unconceived discrediting reports, and where the person convicted by the court as a forger can control the work. This organization will spend more than HUF 24 billion on personal expenses and more than HUF 68 billion on real estate expenses next year. Thus, it is understandable that the press report, which, by the way, only pays 1.5 million forints for making up, hairdressing or clothing. All this rightly upsets people, I think, especially at a time when the energy crisis has come to Hungary, when we have to pay around 40 percent more for food, when the salaries are being reduced when the overhead of many families is rising to multiples. With this amount of money to maintain a propaganda when small businesses, municipalities, are faced with energy bills rising ten to twenty times, I think it is a sin and it is totally unacceptable. At a time when people are faced with postal closures, when there are continuous austerity measures in place, and when the state almost withdraws from social care, it is a sin and unacceptable to spend 126 billion forints once again. So I think that I will not sell a bag cat by saying that the MSZP will not support neither the closing account nor the budget for next year's NMHH. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[14.10]]
u2022-11-11-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Brenner Koloman about the pulpit, and I would like the tone here, to be the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, CHAPTER XXI In the century, in the century of knowledge and information, the media as the fourth branch of power may still be XX. More and more it defines the thinking of citizens than in the first century. Technically, this affects not only political opinion-forming, but also all the rest of our lives. I would like to comment on the debate of the current bill and the next bill, in agreement with the fact that this report and the next budget proposal are about an office and a media called the public service, which is one of the cornerstones of a fidesz one-party overpower over the last 12 years. I think, compared to what we think in a balanced civil democracy about how the media should operate, and how the old civil principle of separation of powers, yes, according to the civil and conservative principle, we should not allow a Media Authority with too much power concentrated in the hands of its president. After all, let us see that this supervisory body can influence the telecommunications market, frequency use and practically everyday functioning of the public media in almost one person through the President, and has created a distorted media situation over the last 12 years, which, in our view, is unacceptable in a balanced civil democracy, which would be relevant to Jobbik as a responsible conservative force. I can accept, by the way, that a free media as a philosophical concept is a very interesting question. I know that I have fellow Members, such as my fellow Member, Nacsa, who used to tell me, for example, the situation of public media in Germany, which I know very well as a Hungarian citizen of German mother tongue and nationality, and I agree with him that it does not mean a balanced public service medium either. But, dear fellow Members, I think that we should not adapt our media situation to negative examples, but to an optimal media situation in Hungary, which has not been the case in the last 32 years. We agree with that. However, it is clear that in the last 12 years the Fidesz two-thirds one-party overpower has created a very distorted media situation; let us be clear. I will never forget the day in April 2018 when all the county newspapers appeared with the same Orbán photo and the same leadership as if we were just talking about the paper of the MSZMP KB. Among other things, the Kisalföld, whose sopron editorship, was my first job. Shame and shame, I think 32 years after the change of regime, this is how county newspapers appear. And county newspapers played a very important role in informing the population of that region. (Sándor Szabó takes his place in the notary seat.) Take a look at what's happened to subscriber numbers in the last 12 years. So I have the feedback from the Hungarian citizens, my fellow Members of the Fidesz. More and more people are canceling their subscription, even at Kisaland, which would remind them of it in the county as practically a ruling paper, and now you've reduced my first job to an unreadable Fidesz propaganda fund. However, I can also refer to what the OSCE report said about elections that were extremely important for political power in 2018. Then maybe you can understand the point of my criticism. The report of the OSCE is about the public service broadcaster, which I quote literally:. The public service provider has shown partiality to the government coalition and government in its information on M1. which accounted for 61 percent of the news reports. More than 90 percent of these reports were positive, while 82 percent of the news was negative in the case of information on the opposition. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the figures. These are not ideological debates, but these numbers. The public media called public service gives negative news about opposition politicians, discredits them, and you didn't let them in for four years, they were allowed five minutes in public media. Then, on April 4, what God gives, they started bombing opposition parties with invitations. There is a limit to being cynical, my fellow Members, really! By the way, as a conservative force on Jobbik's part, we're going into public media. Our politicians regularly go into the public media because we think we cannot afford not to bring to a significant part of Hungarian society the news that there is a fair right-wing alternative to Fidesz one-party overpower. But it is no wonder that in these news programs, of course, because a convicted forger is leading the MTV on what type of questions our politicians receive, it is indeed a shame and a disgrace. And if you can stand between the honourable walls of the Parliament without facial flushing and say that this is a balanced public media, then there is a mistake in your receiver; I must say this with all due respect. Let me also refer to the election of members of the Media Council. You have not allowed opposition delegates to the Media Council since 2010. The Media Council is the same color. But there's no such thing on Earth except North Korea. Let me report on an election process in which I was personally involved, as vice-president of the ad hoc committee that appointed members of the Media Council. All opposition groups were able to reach a compromise on the fact that, in our opinion, the opposition should fairly delegate two members of the five members. But Fidesz wouldn't let me. However, we also did what was not easy on the opposition side, given the ideological diversity of opposition groups, that we could agree on only one excellent expert, but this was not supported by the Fidesz majority. You didn't let any members into the Media Council during the last vote. They're so scared, but seriously, that even one member who might see certain documents is endangering your overpowering? ! Shame and shame! Shame and shame! And then there's a sequel. It's very interesting, by the way, what tricks, not hundreds, or at least tricks you're preparing for the Media Council. The mandate of Mónika Karacs, the President of the Communications Authority and the Media Council would have expired in September 2022; we remember that. What is a zicher, in advance, the President has resigned before the election in April, so that the two thirds of the Fidesz will elect his successor again, for nine years, to be sure. Because who knows what's happening on April 3rd? ! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We won.]] This is your media policy, this cynical arrogance and pride of power, which tricks with every procedural rule without leaving any room for the opposition. Let's look at what Jobbik, as a responsible conservative party, believes that it would be important, as an immediate step, for Hungarian citizens to finally have access to the European Union funds they need. After all, it is quite clear as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and a member of the Committee on Culture, Education and Media that, according to all reports, this media situation is one of the reasons why Hungarian citizens do not have access to the European Union's resources due to the fault of the Fidesz government. In our opinion, what are the immediate steps needed to make rapid progress in the Hungarian media situation? [[14.20]] First, at least one member of the Media Council should be elected immediately. I think this is a minimum condition that you can prove both internally and abroad that you also have a spark of self-correction, but only your spark, really, to realize that this is not elegant in a balanced civil democracy, that in 12 years you have not allowed one opposition representative into the Media Council. Then public advertising must be immediately suspended in the media, because it distorts media relations, fully distorts media relations, and this is public money from all of us common tax forints, not your money. This is money from the taxes of Hungarian citizens, and it is your duty not to use it on the media associated with you. KESMA and other media companies close to Fidesz should be immediately screened in a balanced competition investigation to determine the distorting effect of your media empire. In addition, and here again, I would like to refer to my fellow Member, Nacsa, for us to consider it extremely important that children meet as soon as possible, either in education or elsewhere, with knowledge that underpins conscious and critical media consumption. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] We fully agree, my fellow Member, that as a responsible conservative party, family and child are just as important. It is also very important here that, for the purposes of Internet-based communication, I would also think of starting up education and education for children within an educational system that prepares children and young adults for the brutal mass of information that is provided by the 21st century. Each of us, every day of the century, must process and draw appropriate conclusions from it. So, in our view, it is very important to focus much more on the challenges of the digital media environment within the education system. Finally, the powers of the media surveillance system need to be reconsidered. For example, the fact that a content exhausts the concept of fake news is a very interesting question, because it is a question where who controls the person who finds that a newsfake news or not. This is also an interesting philosophical question. Here is our proposal that it should be left to the courts, because there still exists a counterweight to the fidesz one-party overpower, the substance of what a newscast draws, the facts it draws out. In summary, we propose that these steps should be immediately started by the Fidesz one-party overpower to prove that you have the ability to self-correct, because in our view, the XXI. Every Hungarian citizen in the century has the right to balanced information, because this is the only way to ensure the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-11-11-80	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and now we are going to have further speeches. I give the floor to Mr Gréczy, on behalf of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is no freedom of the press in Hungary. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes, there is!]] I wish it were the Hungarian freedom of the press, the Republic of Hungary! "Hungary is not recognized by its allies as a free country from a press point of view. The OECD stated in its Hungarian electoral report that the media had a negative impact on the possibility of participation in the elections and the possibility of accessing the news. This is why EU funds are not coming, so this money is missing from the Hungarian budget, businesses are missing it, municipalities are missing it and all Hungarian people are missing it. The head of your state television is a court-appointed forger [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] And I quote a reporter who was finally able to get out of the bondage of Magyar Television. His name is Krisztina Balogh, and he said: "It's become a stamp to work in the public media, like when I'm being gypsyed. One of the most promising young Roma intellectuals in the government was considered. It was a huge disappointment to see how political propaganda was made in close proximity to MTVA for a short period of three years. He didn't want to wear the stigma any longer to be a faker. At present, this particular lady lives as a waitress in Austria. There is no freedom of the press in Hungary. It is not freedom of the press where 130 billion is spent during a livelihood crisis on, among other things, a one-minute news programme on government polish and discrediting the opposition. It is not freedom of the press where the same front page appears in county newspapers. This did not occur even during the MSZMP, and there they made sure that at least the front page of the MSZMP, the Patriot People's Front or the government's newspaper had a different cover. You don't even care about that. Of course, there is no freedom of the press in Hungary either when a troll army is specifically working on Fidesz's application or in the app near Fidesz to bring down opposition politicians or to flood the Hungarian public with this type of commentary content. There is no freedom of the press when travelling specifically to lawsuits, Internet portals are going to defamation in order to try to discredit opposition politicians, so that correction may not be announced, otherwise to the greater glory of the Hungarian rule of law, and this shows that Hungary does not have access to EU funds. During the Gyurcsány government, there was freedom of the press in Hungary. [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government ranks.]] That's the fact. EU funds came, and all the allied countries considered Hungary a rule of law, unlike the Orbán regime. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Carpathian on behalf of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-83	Mr President, Dear House, I've done a little experiment, and the thing is, I've won over a dozen press lawsuits against you in connection with slanders and lies about the campaign in 2018 that were not only me but also my family members in the form of harassment. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Harassment with a camera, so it's not necessarily Btk, but I'd like to record that my family members were exposed to it. I won the lawsuits, and the public media involved didn't pay for the public media, but the media near the government paid for it as a military officer. I see two problems here. One is that even if the public media was not condemned, the public media, without criticism, took over the false allegations that the court later said were not true. When I look for the mapping or the imprint of the correction obligation, which has already been imposed by the court, I often do not find it on the relevant portals. But now I've Googled the lying articles, and unfortunately, they're on the relevant news portals as well as before the trial. I think it's very, very harsh. I would also stand up to such phenomena if I were my fellow members of government, Fidesz or KDNP, and even if they were harassing their family members. [[Nacsa Lőrinc:]] In any case, I stand up, I stand up every single time the family members of a public figure are harassed in a border area. I am not at all tolerant and tolerant of this, the sanctity of privacy, I believe that it is an extremely important core value, which in such a case deserves protection without criticism. The fact is that we have also experienced this at the level of major policy. You may recall that group photos of crossing the border fence appeared on your billboards, which, by the way, covered the entire pro-government media. The fact was that if we were to look at Parliament's minutes, we would not have found a better Member who had cut the border fence and stopped it, but rather that they would find it from 2015; look at my speeches, unfortunately, I could repeat them; they are so topical that the migration crisis is a problem. At that time, we received answers from State Secretary that there was no migration crisis in Hungary. This was done weeks before the Röszke incident, and then, obviously, Fidesz noticed that it was able to create an excellent political product from this, and it was cleverly used, otherwise we acknowledge this, because during the previous period Jobbik's support data at that time approached the governing parties strongly, and obviously, after the political use of migration issues, this was no longer the case, and this must be acknowledged. [[14.30]] This campaign served as a political practicality. How fair it was is part of another chapter on history books. But I am very interested in how my fellow members of the Government feel about the portals and newspapers that have been created solely for the purpose of discrediting, so that they are industrially part of this machine, they take over these madness and, where appropriate, even convey it to the public against court judgments. For example, there is the case of the Sargentini report, my fellow Members, which I look at with more than criticism, I cannot identify with it, but it has appeared on one of your news portals, as if we were applauding this report at a rural event or celebrating it. Of course, none of this was true. Then, at court level, it was said that this was not true, and if we look up these articles, unfortunately, they are still there, and the public media is also fond of reporting on similar news. My fellow Member points to his phone several times. I agree with a regulation that protects all members of the public from similar phenomena. Give me one, you can take my word for it, and every word I say will be on the record here. If it comes down to the table under fair conditions and appropriate codification, I will support it, because I think it's a very important thing. I suppose we could all say in this House that we are good for your country, and we are not slapping machines, we are not marionette dolls, so we do not have to put up with everything, and especially our family members do not have to put up with everything. That is why I also ask your propaganda to finally try to respect these boundaries, because in recent years this has failed. I'm very rarely invited to public media. After the election, I was able to invite myself. I have been once in recent years, which is more than a comedian in view of our parliamentary career and its years, and I felt like a space station. So I saw about where that 120-130 billion forint was going. But in times of crisis, there really are ways of spending that may be necessary, but there are three areas where I simply don't understand why the public media budget doesn't. And, of course, let's talk about the fact that there's no opposition in the Media Council, and it's a scandalum. It's just as bad for you, by the way. So if you go to the EU discourse space and you can present this as a certificate, this is in a very bad mood. I do not understand you, because every democratic institution in Hungary does not work at the right level of democracy, so it can be shown a democracy deficit, but at least here they can puppet it that it exists and they do not do it. But there are three areas where there should be a lot more of this budget. One is the protection of children's rights. I am pleased that there is a fundamental agreement between us in this House that child protection and the protection of children's rights must be the first of all among vulnerable groups. At the same time, however, there are parts of this defined by expanding interpretation, such as education on financial awareness, such as the acquisition of basic consumer knowledge. Fellow Members! You have tried it for years and years, between 2010-14, I have demanded that this be included in basic education, let's say at one of the secondary classes or classes, how much this is enough. What we see is that it's not enough. If there's a public media with a budget like this, why don't you do national, measurable campaigns for this? In the area of consumer protection, there is another very vulnerable group, a group of our fine - aged compatriots who are victims of old age and deception. Clearly, there is much more to be done here as well. If public media, such as consumer groups, commodity shows and product shows, had done what it was supposed to do, I know, I know, but there wasn't enough trying, let's face it, because there were a lot of victims of them, if the public media had done what it was supposed to do, they would probably have suffered much less damage. I do not understand you because the Fundamental Law that you voted in majority also requires the protection of these vulnerable social groups. If you have been able to establish and group this into a law and to the highest level, to the highest level of the jurisdictional hierarchy, then why not behave accordingly? And in closing, I have a perfectly logical question. If there is a fair public media in Hungary, how is this debate now not on any public media channel? Well, there's more, there's plenty of room, there's plenty of space, there's plenty of budget. The quality debates in the church of the nation, or less qualitative ones, are judged by the voter every four or five years, why are they not visible to the general public? How can public service and public media be discussed at the highest level if the citizen cannot follow the discussion of the key issues involved through his own television set? Please think about it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-11-11-84	Thank you, Congressman. We're gonna have two-minute comments. I give the floor to Sándor Bodo of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be cynical for the world, because it's far from my basics, but it seems that the proposal to implement the single budget for the year 21 doesn't really have such huge problems. I conclude that your contribution is entirely political, and the word "budgetary" sometimes doesn't even come between thoughts. The comments on the agenda, therefore, do not concern the subject matter more closely. I understand, however, that we are living on some level, that every political family has a mission, and it is happy to take a stand on some of the impressive things that it can convey to the electorate, and one of them is obviously like that in relation to the press, the media, if only the word is said, what can be said. So I will accept this among the rules of parliamentary democracy. But there are two specific things that I have to respond to. One is that opposition politicians are not invited to the public media, says one of the opposition representatives. Then the other one says he's been invited. So we need to clear this up. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: After the election, my fellow Member!]] To what extent, to what extent... so let's be precise. I mean, from MTVA, it's been public that they invite you on several occasions, but they don't accept the invitation. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: After 3 April, my colleague, after 3 April!]] Of course, it's just another political motivation, but let's be precise. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I put it correctly, don't slip. Nacsa Lawrence: You said never!]] The other is the issue of freedom of the press, which is actually mentioned. I think that talking about freedom of the press in the context of an opposition representative, an opposition politician, going into an editorial office and asking a journalist to be physically accountable for what you are doing, I think that this does not lower it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-11-11-86	Thank you, Congressman. I will give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa from the KDNP Group for two minutes. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-87	Thank you very much. I've done numbers, too. Over the past four thousand opposition invitations have been made to public media! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, April 4th!]] Of these, the invitation was accepted by opposition representatives about a hundred times. I also say specifically DK: the DK received 500 invitations to the public media [[Zsolt Gréczy: When?]] , 500 in the last few days. They didn't answer 498, they didn't bother to thank you, we can't go or thank you, we're going. In this light, everyone looks at the words of Zsolt Gréczy. They didn't even answer the invitations. I agree with you, Congressman. That's why he's banging open doors. On the next item, I would like to say that the NMHH, the National Bank and the ORFK have recently concluded an alliance to raise digital financial awareness among young people. ORFK also includes digital financial fraudsters on the Internet who hunt bank account data, credit card data. You're absolutely right about that. If you look at the programme, which was launched by Minister Mihály Varga, called Money7, you will see that we too want to move forward in this and that the new NAT contains better education of financial awareness than is stated in the previous one. We totally agree on that. We also fully agree on family members' vacating. I don't know anymore. At the board meeting, you heard the name "freak." If you've heard it, it's worth a look there, and I'm just gonna give it to you. To Zsolt Gréczy: don't accidentally make an organization look bad, the OECD wasn't here at the elections, but the OSCE was here. OECD is an economic organization. The OSCE, on the other hand, wrote on its website about the elections: everything was found regular in the organisation and conduct of the elections by the OSCE and stated that it was a democratic choice under appropriate legal conditions. 312 observers, delegates said so. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-88	Thank you. For two minutes, I will give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, from the DK Group. Here you go. [[14.40]]
u2022-11-11-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then we quote the OSCE report: "There was no balance of power in the election. Speaking of... Second, the Democratic Coalition is not invited to public television. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] Invitations will be received after 3 April. But for example, individual candidates have not received one invitation in the election campaign, the 106 individual candidates who have started in opposition colors, none. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 500 invitations!]] I'm telling you, none. In such a case, they tried to invite opposition representatives into the public media years ago, not to talk about what, let's say, they held a press conference, but what the other party said about it and so on. There will be free press in Hungary once someone asks Viktor Orbán why we buy Russian gas for five times as much as the whole world. There will be freedom of the press in Hungary when Viktor Orbán, let us say, gives an interview to the RTL Club. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Asked for three and a half hours.]] There will be freedom of the press in Hungary when after three days we learn that László Palkovics has resigned or has not resigned. We don't know whether or not a member of the Hungarian government has been present for three days. There's no official explanation. What kind of freedom of the press is that? No one in the Fidesz press is going to ask if News TV is gone and standing in front of the Carmelite monastery with a camera three days ago because they want to know what happened to László Palkovics? Then there will be freedom of the press in Hungary. There is no freedom of the press in Hungary until public television asks questions to the current members of the government and the current Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author... [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs stands up.]] I see you have something to say to him. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-91	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. In fact, it is a strange story, the current budget and closure of the NMHH, since the NMHH is not legal, and in order to avoid this error, the Committee on Budgets is submitting this bill. So I do not want to interfere with what was said during the debate, because these were primarily sentences of substance, and the closing of the budget is a formal story, about the fact that in 2021 the NMHH spent its budget on what was authorised by law. No critical comments were received in this respect. For this reason, I propose that the committees should deal with it in the following areas and then adopt it in Parliament. In addition, it has been said several times that next Tuesday the Committee on Cultural Affairs will address the issues of content, and the representatives of the NMHH will be ahead of it. So thank you for the floor, Mr President. And I'll stay standing. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-11-92	Thank you to the author. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. If you want to, you gotta hurry up, 'cause there's not much time left. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2023 will follow until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/1698 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda. It's a good thing you're standing up, Congressman. Here you go.
u2022-11-11-93	Your Honour, Mr. President. As I said, this is a strange story, since the Committee on Budgets has dealt with this bill, not for the first time in years. Thus, the odd situation could be that I am not standing here as rapporteur, but, let us say, the MSZP President of the Committee on Budgets or any member of the opposition. But, of course, we know that I would not like to tolerate this, which is why I would like to say to you first of all that you have to cover the expenditure of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority from your own revenue and from the contribution of the central budget. According to law, the Authority's single budget includes both the budget of the NMHH, the Media Council of NMHH and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. The president of the NMHH sent a draft bill within the deadline laid down by law, together with the justification, which was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 24 October. And I have to say again, it is very strange that we only had to decide on the submission, but it was submitted to Parliament by 11 votes in favour, 5 votes against and without abstention. The total expenditure and revenue of the NMHH budget is expected to be HUF 58.6 billion in 2023. In particular, we can talk about four large groups. The total expenditure includes costs related to the operation of the NMHH, staff costs and real estate expenses, which include HUF 27,8 billion in appropriations in 2023. Other operating expenses include a HUF 10 billion item to be provided to NMHH to finance broadcasting costs. The investment is HUF 4.9 billion; we are talking primarily about IT investments. The second pillar is the budget of the Media Council. In summary, it contains HUF 621 million, which includes the Media Council's personal allowances, contributions, expert fees, asset purchases, the amounts to be spent on co-regulation cooperation. The third element is the appropriations managed by the Media Council, with a total revenue and expenditure of HUF 1.3 billion. These amounts will basically be allocated to MTVA and media service and frequency tender fees are penalty fines and bail amounts are included in these items. The largest item is the independent budget of MTVA. Here, budget revenues amount to HUF 121 billion. MTVA also expects HUF 5.5 billion in commercial revenues. That's how the total comes out, the HUF 126.6 billion. Among the expenditures, the fund distributes HUF 8.7 billion to the functioning of the bodies listed in the law and by way of tenders. In short, these are the main figures of the 2023 budget. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the bill submitted is well-founded and contains a sufficiently detailed draft budget together with the explanations attached. That's why I'm asking the Parliament to discuss it and then accept it if possible. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-11-11-94	Thank you to the rapporteur. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Bodo, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the draft budget of the NMHH for 2023 and considers it suitable for a general and detailed debate. As I said in the previous debate, if a specific question arises from my fellow Members in this respect, it will certainly be possible to make it possible at the Committee on Culture next Tuesday, because, as I may have said on the previous agenda, the president or colleagues of the media authority will be present. On the previous agenda, too, we have found that in a strictly budgetary debate political thoughts are also emerging, and perhaps the budget is at the very least mentioned. This may be the case with regard to this agenda, if not. It is quite clear that the president of the NMHH prepared the draft single budget law for 2023 by the deadline of 15 September, as laid down by law, and that this is essentially the most important message and content of the agenda. As I said in the previous debate, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is an independent regulatory body and must cover its operation with its own revenue and budgetary contribution. Under the Media Services and Public Communications Act, the Authority's single budget includes the four main chapters, the budget of the NMHH, the Media Council, the appropriations in the management of the Media Council and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. [[14.50]] The basic activity revenue of NMHH shall be the fees paid for the use of the frequency, the recording and use of the identifiers, the supervisory fee, the procedural fees and the fines collected. The expected revenue will be HUF 58.6 billion in 2023. This is the same as the total amount of expenditure. In this amount, there is a significant share of personal benefits and related contributions of HUF 2 billion to employers and social contributions tax. The planned investment expenditure of HUF 4.9 billion represents a significant share of investments in the smooth process of measuring services and in the field of information technology. Turning to the budget of the Media Council, HUF 274 million can be used to cover direct operating costs, including staff allowances, contributions from the five-member Media Council, expert frameworks to assist their professional activities, procurement of assets and grants for co-operation. The total revenue and expenditure of the appropriations managed by the Media Council is HUF 1.3 billion. In terms of cash flow, MTVA's budget includes HUF 126.6 billion on the revenue and expenditure side. These are therefore the most important data. On this basis, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the Fidesz Group supports the bill tabled, and I ask you to do the same. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-96	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-11-11-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The planned budget of the NMHH for 2023 will ensure that the Media Authority will continue to carry out high-quality work next year and continue its previously mentioned projects. In order to enable the Authority to perform its statutory tasks in full and at a high level, it concluded in 2021 a contract with Antenna Hungária Zrt. to ensure that the data are permanently unavailable, to provide end-user support, to perform customer service tasks related to the operation of the application and to provide the necessary data erasing labels and label data for the use of the application. The NMHH expenditure should also include increased energy costs, which are justified not only by the war and penalty energy crisis, but also by the additional use of the new EMC measuring chamber and server centre. Measurement and IT developments will continue in the coming years. The NMHH intends to continue its successful and public interest programmes in 2023 as well as NMHH's hotline legal assistance service and its programmes to enhance children's protection, digital awareness and media awareness. The activities of the NMHH Children's Protection Internet Round Table should also be mentioned. This important task will also be combined and coordinated by the media authority in order to ensure that children's protection in online space is also explicitly given the necessary strength and emphasis. The professional outcome of this TWG will also help to make concrete government decisions on the issue of digital child protection. With digitalisation spreading and the spread of online space, the media authority is facing more and more new challenges. It is important to enforce the interests and personality rights of users and children as effectively as possible in relation to social media giants. Today, it is even less effective for states to regulate this area, and there is a need for further discussions and further exchanges of views, but if at some point, there is scope for joint European action and close media cooperation in this area. Overall, the budget of the NMHH and the Media Council for 2023 is sound and justified, it carries out and expands a number of extremely important projects, so the KDNP fraction will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-98	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy of the DK Group for two minutes.
u2022-11-11-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Next year's budget for NMHH is not supported by the Democratic Coalition. We can't do this because we believe that the protection of families and our children, legal certainty and digital security cover the freedom of the press as a whole, and since the freedom of the press doesn't apply today in Hungary, so the authority in the system that crushes the freedom of the press and makes it impossible for EU budget money to arrive in Hungary, the Democratic Coalition cannot support it. Thank you very much.
u2022-11-11-100	Thank you, Congressman. No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[For signal:]] The rapporteur does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, You have an hour and six minutes before 16:00 to submit the amendments. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Speaking after the agenda will not be present in the Chamber, so I cannot give them the floor. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 21 November 2022. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Thank you, everyone, who has helped me technically to ensure that this meeting also ends smoothly and successfully. Thank you all very much for your work.
