u2022-07-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 3rd Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. On 4 July 2022, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting. The letter and its attachment were found on the website. Dear House, President Katalin Novák sent the Parliament a transcript of the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2022-07-04-1	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the basis of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Tibor Tóth as State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance with effect from 1 July 2022. Budapest, 29 June 2022 Yours sincerely, Katalin Novak.
u2022-07-04-2	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. We will now begin a series of contributions before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, member of the LMP. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, LMP has long demanded the introduction of a congestion charge in Budapest, as air pollution, noise, congestion and accidents can only be reduced. The government, on the other hand, is rigidly shutting down on the grounds that it does not wish to tell people how to live. However, Annex XXI is amended as follows: We cannot respond adequately to the challenges of the century, such as the energy crisis and the climate crisis, if we do not change our way of life. Last week's reply by Balázs Fürjes shows that the government has not yet recognised its responsibility. Today in Budapest cars cannot be moved, and not because bus lanes and cycling lanes are on the roads. It's time to recognize [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] The fact that the root of the problem is not that the capital does not have more cars, therefore a comprehensive traffic relief plan is needed, covering the entire city, i.e. the downtown and the suburbs, and involving the agglomeration settlements as partners. Of course, we also have criticism of the capital, as there has not yet been an impact assessment of the congestion charge proposed by us, and the Mayor recently said that it is not timely to introduce a congestion charge, even though it was included in his election programme. However, even by law, the government makes it impossible to introduce city tolls, even though congestion charges have been proven to be an effective means of reducing traffic, even if they try to deny it. Where it was introduced, traffic was reduced, traffic was reduced. In Stockholm, for example, 70 percent of residents rejected it before the introduction, but after the introduction it was confirmed in a referendum; it is no wonder that it reduced traffic by 20 percent. In London there was a 10 percent reduction in traffic and in Singapore a 13 percent reduction in traffic. Last week, too, Minister of State said, in essence, that the problem is real, but the congestion charge is a bad solution. However, it can also be said that the government is not looking for good solutions, but is also making the situation worse, for example, the resolution on climate leases has been postponed for weeks, while the gas stop was almost immediately decided. The Hungarian government, in a unique way, is also in favour of driving against public transport, and it does not matter that 70 percent of the oil used in transport comes from Russia. But not only is the climate lease not yet available, but also a single agglomeration lease has not been introduced, even though the regional tariff community has been on the table for many years. For 12 years, not only are they not doing something about the city's dispersal, but they are also encouraging it, for example, with their housing policies. As a result, from Tárnók to Monorig, from wall to wall, the Pest county settlements are being built, while the necessary infrastructure has not been built, so now, in 2022, water restrictions had to be introduced in 11 settlements. They also do nothing to reduce unnecessary travel, there are no programs to support home work, there are often no services like kindergartens, schools, doctors, theatres or workplaces in the agglomeration, so there is only commuting. There is no legal background that regulates housing more effectively, neither the tenants nor the tenants feel safe, and nothing hinders the release of rent prices, so this creates additional mobility needs. In the area of the student city, a car-free sample project was made impossible, which could provide accommodation for thousands of rural students. With the Galvani Bridge, hundreds of billions would be scattered to drive commuters and transit freight in the city, it doesn't matter if there's a green area or a suburbs in the way. And around Ferihegy, the various logistics centers are multiplying, while the living standards of those living there are significantly deteriorating. Our position is that Budapest is not a motorway, but the residence of 1.7 million people, so we expect them to develop the city, not in the interests of the capital, but in the interests of the people. We believe that the city is not for the cars, but for the people, so LMP stands up to reduce traffic in Budapest, and LMP will continue to demand the introduction of a toll for use and pollution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-04-4	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2022-07-04-5	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is not the first time we have seen the left attacking infrastructure investments and, by the way, a well-functioning home creation programme. We prefer our own property to give Hungarians their own housing, and you do not think about it, but in a rental program, which is a big difference. We also see a clear effort to tune motorists and those who travel in different ways against each other in a class-fighter's approach. I would like to make it clear to you that it is not by creating such conflicts that a city can be lived, but by finding an opportunity for its own life in transport, all at an increasingly high level. One thing is certain: it is not a very good direction, Madam honourable Member, that during the period of war inflation, the left wants to put new burdens on the shoulders of Hungarians, thus on the shoulders of the people of Budapest: they are raising parking charges, which you have just forgotten, making car transport more difficult, and they are planning a congestion charge. What they're going to demand, and they're going to hold him accountable to the government. These are all extra burdens, and it is particularly aggravated by the fact that they have not asked the views of the stakeholders at all, the opinions of the families in Budapest, and the views of the car users, so that, as I understand, there is a social dialogue unit, department, centre at City Hall. Why didn't you ask the people involved? [[13.10]] If you want to do something about the viability of Budapest, convince your mayor to finally stand on his heels and eliminate the traffic chaos he caused. Uncoordinated and slippery investments, inadequate transport order, and I could continue the line. What is happening today in the capital is the first consequence of Gergely Christmas's inability to act. It's time for a change. You give me the mayor, well, go ahead. And by the way, it's no coincidence that you're lobbying in this House for traffic charges because you know you don't trust City Hall to do anything anymore. As far as their politics with regard to Budapest is concerned in general, the ability of the left, your party and all the left parties to perform more than anything else shows what they are capable of doing all over Budapest, where they have been ruling for nearly three years. There's a lot of confusion, helplessness and chaos. It's a good description of the fact that a poster exhibition on the capital budget was presented a few days ago. Well, we would have had a few suggestions. What would be on these posters if they represented reality? For example, these posters have 3,000 decommissioned dumpsters, plus the trash that's left behind. There would be bad housing and careless public areas on the posters, sometimes called beekeepers. They could also be fitted with a refurbished wharf for motorists, which they would now take away from them. Endless lines of cars due to poorly organized construction and surprising trails of bikes. It would also be worth a poster when the mayor is riding in a bus lane, while the crowds of motorists trying to get to work are on the bridge. It would certainly be worth a poster when the deputy mayor, riding out of the sea, finds that people should save more money and live differently. It is certainly worth depicting the subway air conditioning, which Bence Tordai and some of his fellow Members demanded half-naked not long ago, so that when they took office, the entire project should be dropped. Let me ask you, honourable Member, where is the air conditioner previously claimed half-naked? And finally, we recommend, as traditional circulars, a work where left-wing parties throw the City Hall in the background with Gordon Bajnai and 41 advisors. Seriously, it has been three years, Madam honourable Member, and if it had been for the City Hall, Budapest would not have gone forward, it would have been a Christmas rush. However much left-wing confusion may be, we will not allow Budapest to be the victim of left-wing failure policy, nor in the capital, nor in the country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-6	Now it's time for the Dialogue representative, András Imre Jámbor. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-7	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, We are in trouble; if you agree with me that the people have been sent to serve us here in this House. We are in trouble, as Minister Martin the Great said, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said. There's no way forward and there's a recession. But if there's a problem, the first thing we need to do is see how the system can be fairer, how we can give the people in trouble more chance and opportunity, how we can give the people in trouble a chance. Fellow Members! I grew up in a family that was the loser of the regime change and the subsequent period. So I know exactly that, despite all good intentions, in the end, women like my mother, who, working as a social worker, raised me alone in child protection, will get along badly, and her children will get along badly. At the end of the crisis, the elite that produces this Parliament will always come out well for its own economic benefit. You didn't stand in line in winter with your mother's hand in order to pay the bill back with the money she borrowed, and I'm here to fight to make as few children as possible worth it. I know where I come from, and I'll never forget it. That is precisely why, for example, I have tabled a proposal that would reduce the salary of Members, State Secretarys, Ministers and Prime Minister by 20%, in case you understand who you should give it to and who should get it if there is a problem, what it means to serve the people. A week ago here in Parliament, Viktor Orbán replied to the question of raising his salary, that he had waited his turn, and he did not raise his own salary, because it was not his decision, but Parliament's decision. This raise and this answer is symbolic. How long do teachers, policemen, firefighters, social workers have to wait their turn to double their pay? And how is it that, in addition to one of the highest food price increases in Europe, even in the face of price stops, when food is already 30 percent more expensive than in the previous year, in the middle of the housing crisis, the Prime Minister is promoted in this line? And yet, what kind of a smart answer is it that, in Hungary today, Viktor Orbán did not decide about this, but Parliament did? ! Was the Prime Minister blindfolded, or was he led out of the faction when it came to this? Can anyone believe this self-preservation story? Orbán also said a week ago that there are four pillars that need to be protected: jobs, reduction of wages, the system of family support and the situation of pensions. We agree on that. But the devil is in the details, and the question is, what details should we pay attention to in trouble, so that less and less money from the state gets to where it is needed now. Let's keep the rent down. But are you sure the Hungarian state has to finance the watering of the garden, the filling of the pool? In a crisis, wouldn't it be more necessary to protect those who have problems from rising energy prices? But let's not finance public funding for someone to fill his pool with reduced water, light up his castle with reduced electricity. You gotta help the pensioners. For someone with a pension of HUF 500,000, your pension of 3.9 percent is now rising by HUF 19 500, while forints 120 thousand, HUF 4680, while the price of bread has increased by HUF 200-300 in one year. I wonder who needs a raise more. Help the families, but what better will help the Hungarian children: if the net one million earner is still paid by the state with a tax discount, or if we give the social workers working in the protection of the family, in the protection of children, a decent salary to their teachers, regardless of the number of children? And yes, let's protect people's livelihoods, not just jobs. But how do they do that when their Minister for Economic Development talks about wage increases being a mistake because they cause inflation? And isn't the wage increase of ministers, secretary of state and prime minister a mistake? Only the teachers, the firefighters, the police? How do they protect jobs when there's a real wage drop in their own numbers next year? Next year, the public sector's gross average earnings will rise by 5.5 percent according to the budget, while your central bank predicts 7-9 percent inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, So there's trouble, and in trouble, the stronger must help the weaker, because that's what makes the community strong together. That's why I'm telling you to pay the rich, pay a normal fee for whoever spends their swimming pool or lights up their castle, and help those in trouble with the money saved. Do not give support to those who do not need it, but to those who raise our children. We do not raise the pension of those who have it, but those who have to choose between the medicine and the bread at the end of the month. And yes, let's raise the rent to get enough cops, teachers, nurses, firefighters. [[13.20]] Let the rich pay and give those who need our support to move forward or at least maintain their current standard of living. Let us give Hungary a better chance, a better Hungarian state. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-07-04-8	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What you have said in the past few minutes, we may hear some more of your speeches, that you have not really seen what the left has done in Hungary in the last thirty years, or you just don't want to see it. Such and similar slogans led us to find out from whom the left took away from pensioners in Hungary. You don't have a bad word for that. From whom did the Hungarian left take away? From the teachers. You don't have a bad word for that. From whom did the Hungarian left take away when he said he was dealing with a crisis? Social workers who helped those who needed help. And you don't have a bad word for that. They took away the standard of care, the quota, which is normative, 30 thousand forints, 100,000 forints from the increased level of care. And you don't have a bad word for that. You want to bring this world back with reference to words you have said, and once again with slogans from the cover of old books of seventy years old, honourable Member. Who else did you take from? Doctors, because it seems that the wages of nurses and doctors were too much for the left around 2008-2009, and they thought that they had such a safe living that a month's wages could be taken from them. In the meantime, you have dismissed people in bulk, 15,000 teachers, 6,000 health workers, because this was the real activity of the left, honourable Member. Obviously, there is also a fundamental philosophical difference between us. We believe that Hungary's economy and social structure should be based in the long term on the fact that the vast majority of society is the middle class's biggest enemy for you, which is what it wants to crush, a strong middle class that can carry the country on its shoulders, and Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who, of course, are often suppliers to the multinationals, but they are basically on their own feet and carry the Hungarian budget like this. This is our vision. On the other hand, you would strangle entrepreneurs by at least doubling their burden by introducing global minimum taxes and other taxes. [[András Imre Jámbor constantly intervenes.]] The Hungarian working families would be strangled with it...
u2022-07-04-10	I've already spoken to Mr. Pious, but now I'm not!
u2022-07-04-11	...that they would eliminate single-key taxes and family-type taxation, because with this neomarxist rage, they also attacked him in the election campaign that it would benefit the rich. It is not in favour of the rich, Mr honourable Member, but of strengthening a strong middle class in Hungary. But you'd crush this, and that would obviously cause a lot of families to have a living problem. However, when it comes to multis and people, they always choose multis on the left. You are now again attacking the reduction of the rent. It's old Marxist to say that a reduction in the overhead is only good for filling swimming pools. Ridiculous, honourable Member, I do not know how you could say this twice in five minutes, because the reduction of the rent will be a good way to protect the lower part of the middle class from slipping down and getting into the camp of the day-to-day needy. And by the way, we think that it is better than any Hungarian person to save a few thousand or a few thousand forints from reducing the rent than to put it in the pocket of a foreign multinational. And you told us to take that money into the foreign multi-pocket, take it away from all Hungarians. Because it's always the foreigner that's more important to you. For you, Hungarian is always secondary, inferior, Hungarian is to serve others. That's your left-wing philosophy. In this internationalist context, everything that is national must be exceeded, because for some reason, in this dialectical materialism, you have come to the point that all nationals must be exceeded, because what is identity is a disadvantage. Therefore, on an ideological basis, you are always welcome to be part of the globalists, because they must know better than the Hungarians. They know better in Brussels than in Budapest, they know better in any other imperial centre than in Budapest, honourable Member. Therefore, you would always be filling the pockets of a foreign multi-pocket rather than keeping forints or any support in the pockets of any Hungarian person. And speaking of small-money people, what is the best way to protect you from poverty? It is when a person has a job; when he has a job, and there is little tax to pay. You have brought the results of many taxes, few jobs, because in your own time unemployment has been raised around 12 percent, and 36 percent of those who work have been taxed. Those who work are subject to fewer taxes, and we have created much more jobs. Not as many people have worked since the change of regime as in recent months, with unemployment around 3.5 percent. But you have added to all of this, honourable Member, and the shame behind you in your own eight-year-old governance is that the minimum wage, the wages of the least earners, has not been raised in the least. That wasn't important to you. Those who earn little remained in the category of earning little. You raised the minimum wage by HUF 23 500, and we raised the minimum wage by HUF 126 500. Who's on the side of low-income people, Congressman? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-12	I now give the floor to the representative of our country, Novak Elõk. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-13	Dear Parliament, While, for example, on the occasion of the Day of Birds and Trees, there was already a commemoration on the official agenda in this term of Parliament, there was nothing on Trianon. Now I have to replace the official commemoration on the anniversary of the Battle of Bratislava, drawing the political conclusions. Today our nation remembers one of the greatest triumphs of Hungary, the battle to save the nation in Bratislava and the founder of the most sacred dynasty in the world. Our great prince Árpád returned his soul on July 7th, 907, and died fighting a winning battle. 12 years after the invasion of the country, the enemy attacked our people from the West. The German-Roman hordes invaded our land at the Danube with the aim of exterminating or at least suppressing the Hungarians. His sleepy son, Árpád, received a strong military education. When he was a teenager, he was familiar with the attack-defense system of the Hungarian fighter in Turán, and led campaigns from the age of 20. He will be head of the Neck tribe, and in 892, his father will take over the leadership of the family's ancient tribe, the Megyer tribe. He enters diplomatic relations with Byzantine Emperor Leo the Wise, and in 894, his ambassadors ask him for the alliance of the Hungarians against the Bulgarians. Árpád agrees and immediately orders the implementation of the military and inter-tribe measures needed to recapture the country. That's when he proves Árpád's capacity for statesmen and military training over all his known contemporaries. In the spring of 895 the tribes set off for the 1200 - 1,800 km journey and took their place in the Carpathian Basin in the autumn of the same year. A further example of such a large - territory operation and obedience to the will of a controlling prince will be repeated only in Napoleon's time. A general like Árpád is not found in Europe for seven centuries. The founding and strengthening of the Hungarian state and of the kingdom were watched in hatred by the leaders of the Western countries. Bajor Margrave Luitpold and his allies ran against Hungary in May 907. The outnumbered enemy army was completely destroyed in July by the leader Árpád with the cavalry archers of the Hungarian team, who was severely wounded in the battle in Bratislava and returned his soul to God at the age of 67 on 7 July. He sacrificed his four sons of Dalias in order to regain and preserve the country, Levente in the Bulgarian war, Tarhost, Sittar, and Jotas in the Battle of Bratislava. Dear Parliament, We Hungarians can remember a winning battle now. Among European peoples, few can celebrate an anniversary of more than 1100 if there is a state commemoration. But the glorious battle in Bratislava, most spectacularly, by presenting battle scenes, was revived by György Budaházy and the Hun Alliance, which he founded for years, until he was arrested. In 2010, I also remembered the battle in Bratislava and György Budaházy's merits in this regard, who was also arrested in advance at the time, and today, to shame, is again in prison. It is no wonder that today, as solidarity, civilians have closed the Elizabeth Bridge with civil disobedience. And there were also civilians organizing a traditional commemoration yesterday on the day before the anniversary of the Battle of Bratislava. Csaba Csengődi, Ferenc Herczeg, Tamás Kubinyi and Csaba Rumány deserve parliamentary recognition as a result of many years of commemoration and traditional events. Their most important demand is that the Battle of Bratislava be educational material in schools, because in schools they do not really teach one of the greatest triumphs of Hungarians, the history of the Battle of Bratislava. Instead, they put the defeat cult in their heads. They made Trianon a crappy celebration. Maybe Mohács will be the same? After all, even in the 500-year-old Battle of Mohács, a ministerial commissioner has been appointed, of course he may only be regarded as a parliamentary supplement, as the task can be carried out by János Hargitai KDNP representative for good money now, even though the 500th anniversary will be due in four years, and he has already dealt with it last year. [[13.30]] Instead of commemorating the glorious Battle of Bratislava, one of the greatest triumphs of Hungary, which would normally have been made by an excellent game or even action film. Until this is done, glory to the heroes! [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-04-14	Madam Secretary of State Eszter Vályos has the floor.
u2022-07-04-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On a very important subject, I think that he spoke on a topic of great importance for the preservation of Hungarians. But to look at what happened in 907, 1115 years ago, I think it would be worth recalling a closer aspect of our recent history. After the disastrous governance of those in opposition today between 2002 and 2010, the national government was facing bankruptcy, IMF loans, debt traps and ruins, and the government could start to clean up this left-wing legacy and build. That we are building a defeat cult, I strongly reject it, my dear Member, because we are not saying that we should dare to be small. The Hungarian national government recognised that in today's world we need even more accurate knowledge of our past and origin. We are aware that Hungary is one of the oldest nations, the origin of which has played a role of several peoples of the past, our prehistoric history and our past thousand years are dazzling, even if there have been difficult situations. We have survived many tragedies in which other nations would have died. There's a reason why Rákóczi raised the flag for his country and freedom or called the Hungarian on Petőfi's feet or fought against the Soviet tanks by Mary Wittner, and we climbed out of the tomb in Trianon. We have a place here in Europe, one of the most well-known nations of which we are here in the Carpathian Basin with valuable traditions and freedom. All of this must be known, the Hungarians living today must be conscious, supported by scientific and cultural means. To this end, the National Government established the Hungarian Institute of Research in 2018, which, for example, made an animation film about the Battle of Bratislava in 2020, this film was presented by the M5 channel in December 2020, and this channel was the most watched program in 2020. By the way, they also supported the Košice Valley, which is the site of the world's most famous cavalry culture, and each year they commemorate the triumph of the Battle of Bratislava with arrows. But here I can also mention the new national basic curriculum, in which Hungarian ancient history is also given greater emphasis. But historical films are now being made: Hunyadi, 1222 Golden Bulls, Petőfi, András Hadik and so on. Let us not forget, however, that every initiative in this direction is accompanied by violent Balliberal attacks, but the government does not want to comply with the opposition, but rather with the electorate, and we are accountable to them, so we will continue to build national identity in the future, in which, in the future, it will play an even greater role in the knowledge and identification of Hungarians with a sovereign, sacral past. The thousand years have almost passed, and we realize that in today's impaired world, we also need to protect ourselves from a number of influences. And, yes, as you said, the battle in Bratislava has played a decisive role in our history, since it has stopped attacks from the western direction for more than 120 years. Despite the enormous overpowers, the army of the Hungarian Grand Prince has struck one of Europe's best-equipped and outnumbered armies. I also have to say that they have suffered such a defeat that over the next decades, exactly 120 years, II. Until Konrad's attack in 1030 they dared not attack the Hungarians. The glorious battle, as I said, will be remembered every year, and the film will be finished, and we will continue to make historical films. It's 1115th anniversary of the battle. From the Battle of Bratislava, it also comes the expression "beyond the Operence" which means the areas above the Enns River, which we have managed to defend as a result of this battle. The Battle of Bratislava was a clear, full and huge Hungarian triumph, one of the greatest successes in our history. Its importance can really be understood by the fact that, after the battle in Bratislava, the countries of Europe accepted the fact that a new, independent and strong state formation was created on the continent under the name of the Hungarian Princeship. We live and work to raise awareness of this in the countries of Europe, and it would be good for the opposition to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-16	Imre Komjáthi, representative of the MSZP also asked for an opportunity to speak before the agenda. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-07-04-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I begin to make my point, I would say to Mr Dömötör, State Secretary, that if you would answer me, I would be happy to take it if you were to have a class warrior attitude, I would take that as a compliment. And I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State of Rétvár that I am very happy to conduct ideological debates, but I would just like to clarify that the MSZP left-wing people you spoke about are neoliberals that are changing in times. [[Bence Rétvári: Neomarxists! Neomarxists!]] But then I ask with a class fighter's attitude: do you know the difference between need and need? Because Minister Márton Nagy said or was upset that Aldi had made wage development following inflation at this time of crisis, and Viktor Orbán was upset that everyone here is suddenly making a demand for wage development. Well, in your home, there's a high probability that every year you're going to get to the Adriatic, and there, say, on board the Lady MRD, you're going to burn a lot of gallons of gasoline. It is certainly a need for you to slowly, let's say, have a ministerial commissioner for the footy half-curver. It is certainly a demand for you to say that, let's say, fireworks are not organized from HUF 212 million in times of crisis, but from HUF 1.3 billion. But the need is different. For workers, for people who carry this country on their backs, for those who run this country, there is a need for wage increases, a need to support their families, and a need for many workers to receive their salaries. Unfortunately, this need is not satisfied in Csorna, for example, as the 24th of March said, even the workers in the solar cell factory in Csorna did not receive their salary in March, in the solar cell factory where great forces moved on your part, at the basestone, Áder János, who was born in Csorna, as the puppet president of the Republic. At the start of the project, the government promised and granted individual support of one billion HUF in 2014. The solar plant was worth HUF 1.9 billion in EU funding, and the state-owned Eximbank Zrt. for the 15 billion HUF investment. granted a loan of EUR 22,4 million. After four years, the solar panel factory was still not ready, and the other bank of the government, Magyar Dejdelmi Bank Zrt. took over this company's lending by raising its loan envelope to EUR 40 million. Several irregularities were observed in the company, so in 2016, you ordered an irregularity investigation, but Csaba Latorcai, Minister of State, answered the question that the first instance decision was made, but the appeal deadline was not over. Six years after the project was launched, we are at the company's OLAF investigation, and we are at the point that our sources in Csorna call the company a phantom factory with a noble simplicity, because there is no movement around the factory, neither the workers nor the officeists' cars are parked. According to one of the employees, the director appeared among them on 12 April, stating that they had not received their salary, but hoped that the situation would be resolved within two weeks. Nevertheless, the workers were conscientiously continuing their work, but they still did not receive their salary, and many of them have been sent on unpaid leave, or they are trying to resign by mutual agreement, but they do not yet know what to do. [[13.40]] Right now, it's just that they've been sent to work for an indefinite period of time. And then the question arises: has the government been informed of the conditions in Csorna? What's your plan with EcoSolifer Ltd.? What are they doing to ensure that the EUR 40 million of public credit is not lost? What does the family-friendly government intend to do to help 52 families? And have you given support to the workers as soon as possible, or if not, how will they be helped? What can you advise desperate workers to wait longer, or is it really worth quitting? They need to get paid, not need. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm asking you to think about this. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the lines of MSZ, Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-07-04-18	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2022-07-04-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, From your class struggle, we've gone all the way to an irregularity procedure in your speech. The speeches before the agenda are not about individual matters, but about general political issues. That's what you thought was important to talk about the fate of the solar plant in Csorna. But in his speech, he also said that the irregularity procedure had been initiated in this regard, and that the managing authority would obviously conduct this properly, and that you would be able to get to know and make public the correct results. Of course, if there are workers who are in real trouble and cannot get paid, they should be helped under these appropriate laws, like any company in the country, if such a case occurs. I must admit, today, the country, in addition to such individual cases, is still concerned about when the war will end, when peace will come, when will there be a life before it is, when will it be over, when will inflation increase, when will it end, when will it end, that the price increase will give enormous levels to people, it will give people. At a time when Parliament is drawing up a budget, it is natural for the budget to take these aspects into account. The aspects that need to be taken into account in the 2023 budget, as you are involved in wage increases and other things that protect people from harm, protect them from losing their jobs, are the first and most important aspect. It is important how much their wages will be, how much their wages will increase, it is very important, but it is important that they do not lose their jobs, so that the economy can operate in such a way as to provide people with a livelihood, ensure jobs; and then, if they do not work, pensioners and pensioners should be given pensions that we promised in 2010, the essence of which is to protect them from price increases, to protect the real value of pensions. Even in 2022, the government will protect the real value of pensions despite high inflation. He will protect you, because after a 5% increase at the beginning of the year, from 12 July onwards, 2.6 million pensioners will receive a further 3.9 percent increase, going back to January, and they will receive this increase even for the 13th month pension. So in July, the pensioners will get an eight-month raise. But then there will also be a revision in September required by law, and if necessary, pensioners will be given an additional increase in November, because one thing is that the purchasing value of pensions must be preserved, and the government considers this to be an important political aspect. Then it is also very important that we protect families on the issue of reducing costs, protect families, so that Hungarian families do not feel the increase in energy prices that is taking place in the world, which is why we created the Rezségvédelmi Fund in the budget next year. It is very, very important to save the Hungarian families from this huge problem. Honourable Congressman, I think the important question is that today's war economic crisis [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We protect Hungarian families in a forecasting time, and this government is working on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-20	Ferenc Gelencsér, representative of Momentum, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2022-07-04-21	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Lajos Kósa, vice-president of the ruling party and vice-president of the faction, has been moderately accustomed to being surprisingly honest at times, thus uncovering from time to time the true intentions, plans and operation of the governing parties. For example, when Lajos Kósa admitted that the Ministry of the Interior had purchased Pegasus spy software to monitor journalists and public figures alike. Last week, he once again acknowledged with his usual wisdom that Fidesz had agents in other parties, as well as that he would look into it as Vice President of Fidesz. I would like to ask the honourable pro-government Members and women that you believe that it is a normal principle of functioning in a democracy if, according to the Vice-President of the governing party, the party has agents. Not so long ago, until 1990, this was a standard practice. In principle, however, you were created against this, among other things. It is said that every generation must break out of relative uncertainty, find its mission, and fulfill it, or betray it. According to the words of Lajos Kósa, to quote Star Wars, you have become what you have sworn to destroy: you have betrayed the mission of your generation, the change of regime. This statement by Lajos Kósa is also strange because its agents are usually the state, and in Hungary, for example, the Constitutional Protection Office or the Information Office. I would like to ask that these services will examine the fact that, according to the Vice-President of the ruling party, the ruling party employs agents. Make no mistake, the existence of specialist services is very important against domestic terrorism and in order to maintain constitutional order, even in a country where there is no formal constitution. In the case of specialist services, it is absolutely vital that they enter organisations that pose the risks listed above. Obviously, this is how György Budaházy was convicted that one of his good friends, his fellow warriors, was supposed to be undercover; who knows, who knows, he has been sitting with us in the ranks of our country ever since. But to get back to the words of Vice-President Lajos Kósa: a full-time job or a side job in Hungary today to be a Fidesz agent? How much money can you make with this? Are the Fidesz agents mentioned by Lajos Kósa catholic, or are they taxed differently on their earnings? Is this activity free of personal income tax in 25 years? What kind of party financing is Fidesz paying his agents? Where, for example, does this appear in the reports submitted by the State Court of Auditors? From what budget line does this governing party do you do? Are you publicly financing party-related agents, if so, will the State Audit Office investigate this issue? I am willing to believe that from former MSZMP members to young democrats, there is still Agent Nostalgia in gentlemen and ladies who are socialized in this. According to your former comrade, Lajos Simicska, even the president of your party, the current Prime Minister of Hungary, reported. It's not surprising. That's probably why they don't want to go public with the agent files, even though they've been on the government for the fifth time. Now, if your claim that everyone other than you is a Communist were true, you would not be afraid to publish the list of agents recruited and reporting under the previous communist regime. [[13.50]] What do you have to fear, fellow Members of the Government? Have any of you ever wondered why your party is constantly obstructing the disclosure of agent files? After all, if the whole legend around which the Fidesz has been built is true and along which it has determined itself for more than three decades, then theoretically they have nothing to fear. That, please, is something to think about. Think about it, please, to make the agents' files public, and the fact that you think it's your place to talk to the vice president of your party at the National Assembly about looking into which party you have agents in. Thank you. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-04-22	Once again, Balázs Fürjes is burdened with the task of responding to this post before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2022-07-04-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, If I understand correctly, there may also be problems with your ability to understand, but it was difficult to figure out exactly what this speech and the involvement of the government is about the contribution of a member of a ruling party. But if I understand correctly, that's what this motivation is really about, and I can see that you want to talk about it. Then let's talk. I'd be happy to help you. We're always happy to help you in this situation. I understand that you are in a difficult situation and that your party is in a difficult situation. You are in a difficult situation as a new, newly elected party president, as Momentum has been on a relatively squirming path during its short political career. I understand the search, let's go through this. You arrived at Hungarian politics in 2017. When a journalist asked you what it was that you would be the new SZDSZ, you said your predecessor, who was sitting in front of you, that we would enter a coalition with the MSZP? I'm gonna put my life on this table for you, that's not gonna happen. Or another quote from your predecessor, András Fekete-Győr, who turned out last week that he might have a problem with mathematics. So I'm understanding, because that wasn't my strongest object. But it also turned out that at the age of 30 he was retired by his own voters, did he not receive 3.5 percent as a candidate for prime minister from the voters on the left. So he put it this way: I don't know what the hell Ferenc Gyurcsány is still looking for in politics. You should really get out of public life. Tamás Soproni, another leader of their party:. We do not enter the new pole and we do not gather ourselves together. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, So, you're running a really messy course, because you've come to politics, to the left, to replace the old left, and you're not going to be able to get together with that, and you've never been able to get into Parliament on your own, but you can only climb up on Gyurcsány's back. I understand, Congressman, that it's hard to face the truth sometimes, especially when there's such a scrawny road behind you, and who knows where else it'll lead. You have built your policy on anti-Gyurcsány, and then you have become one of Gyurcsány's closest allies, and we understand that this self-destruction and division will result in a difficult spiritual situation. However, I have the bad news for you that we can't help you with that. The best we can do is help you, even if it's uncomfortable, I know that if we remind you literally of your own earlier words, your own policies, and the only thing we can do is make a suggestion to you that sometimes the backward face has time. If they can get out of Gyurcsány Gyurcsány Gyurcsány Gyurcsány Gyurcsány Gyurcsány is still young enough, if they can break up with the old left, then they may still have a political future. The voters haven't asked much of you so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-04-24	Mr Zoltán Sas asked for an opportunity to comment before the agenda, on behalf of Jobbik. I give you the floor.
u2022-07-04-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Over the past period, border protection and future ideas have become a daily issue, and I am, frankly, very pleased and not just because Jobbik has been calling for a long-term and effective border protection solution for a decade, but because it is a common national issue. I consider common national issues to be a very important task, and it is important that we create modern and reliable solutions to border protection. The situation is extremely worrying, as I said in my speech last week, the burden of border defenders is constantly increasing, the number of illegal immigrants arriving on the border is constantly increasing, and their organised attempts at violent border crossing are being carried out. This situation has now become untenable, but it must also be added that the situation has deteriorated further, since there has also been an armed conflict in the territory of Serbia south of the Hungarian border in the last few days, which may have occurred between human traffickers or illegal immigrants, and which, unfortunately, has resulted in a fatal outcome. However, this case draws attention to the importance of our tasks, so that Hungarian border defenders can be prepared to deal with such situations. I was also pleased that the Hungarian government finally realized that there was a need for an independent body to protect the border, and to this end the employees of the competent department are working on preparing a bill if everything is true, which I hope will solve the issue of the Hungarian border in the long term and make it safe. I look forward to this proposal coming to Parliament, and if it is a separate bill that meets the professional requirements and is capable of achieving the objectives set, then I think it will be eligible on the basis of the principle of national minimum. However, I would like to draw your attention to the custom that was common in the past, which is the custom of multi-party consultation, and I think that this is what is needed in such an important national case. Believe me, there are patriots on the opposition side who are able to comment on it in substance, to make proposals that are professionally based and forward-looking in the context of such a bill. Of course, decision-makers can do not accept them, but they can make it significantly easier for the general debate in Parliament. What kind of topics do I have in mind? For example, dualities related to border security, as border security, border surveillance are shared by border protection and border police tasks, which are hand-in-hand, but nevertheless require separate fields of expertise, special training, and a targeted separation is necessary for the legislator in order to ensure better protection of the Hungarian borders and ensure entry in accordance with the law. I think it is equally important to draw attention to the fact that this duality can be observed in the operation of border hunting squads of the former border guards, since these units have previously carried out predominantly police duties and only to a lesser extent defence. What did that mean in practice? This was a forward-looking and very good solution at European level, because, in addition to law enforcement tasks, because of their equipment and training, they were able and able to avoid an armed attack in the border zone, which, fortunately, did not happen, but if it had happened. I believe that the current Russian-Ukrainian war justifies the creation of such units. I should also add that during these periods, in a qualified period of war, the government, of course, will be taken over by the Minister of Defence on the police duties that have been carried out by the Minister of the Interior. Dear fellow Members, I think it is also important to talk about the need for a new organisation like this to have a lot of new people, and indeed, salaries must be fixed, so that this track, which protects Europe's borders, receives European wages, and that there should be no wage tension in the police force. The establishment of Hungary's security begins with the protection of borders, and it is in the common interest of all of us to have a border protection that can guarantee this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2022-07-04-26	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-07-04-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In 2015, when the great wave of migration started, we didn't know exactly what was coming in the coming years, it was either a one-off wave that would last for a long time, that the European Union only temporarily didn't realize exactly what was happening at Europe's borders and that it would try to stop migration or continue to encourage it. But it has now become clear that, on the one hand, migration has not stopped in a year or two, but has increased. If you look at the number of people crossing the Hungarian border illegally this year, it is 110 156 people, so the number of illegal border crossings has risen above 110 thousand. For the same time last year, 46,000 people had crossed or tried to cross the border, so less than half of them had crossed the border in 2020, and so the year before that, 46,000 people had crossed the border throughout the year, as they have now in six months, so this figure seems to be rising. The number of smugglers is also rising, which was 455 in 2020, last year's 1277 and this year's already 820, so apparently this is also a very large increase. More and more smugglers, more aggressively, are trying to bring more and more people across the southern Hungarian border, and Hungary continues to protect the country's southern border and the European Union's external border with a cost of 600 billion HUF. Therefore, we are not getting recognition, and more and more people are attacking Hungary from both Budapest and Brussels. Let's take a look at one or two of these who attacked the fence and attacked the southern border defense. I'd like to bring two men, the first Gábor Vona, president of Jobbik, you're sitting in the Jobbik faction. He said that the fence is a huge failure, a fence that has protected Hungary and Hungary's southern border since 2015 and is totally unfit to defend Hungary; said Gábor Vona, President of Jobbik, honourable Member, your own President. But let's not get back in such a hurry, let's watch the current president of Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi. What did the President of Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi, say about migration, about border protection? He said a few years after the migration crisis broke out that there was no other solution, that asylum should be given to immigrants arriving, said the President of Jobbik. But that wasn't enough for him. They asked him if he wanted a quota. He said that, of course, he did. He criticized the Hungarian government because, depending on the country of origin, Hungary did not accept those who did not come from a country. Your President, who has recently been elected president, has supported both quotas and was opposed to Hungarian immigration policy, and has talked about the inclusion of everyone, that everyone should have this right. So you're in trouble, Congressman, because if you go back to the faction office, the phone will ring from the president. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This is how you do it!]] what you're talking about here in Parliament when he told you in Brussels [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's not the way things are with us!]] There will be quotas and immigration. I'm pretty busy with the Jobbik ethics committee, but it looks like you're gonna add another case. [[Dr. László György Lukács: You can be sure you don't!]] Do you even know what you want? So Jobbik has two days to say the same thing? Or it's so much just compliance with the current trend, compliance with power, the possibility of getting into Parliament that you sometimes say that, sometimes you say, honourable Member. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We always wanted border guards!]] So we see that your opinion is changing at the moment, but as if both Gábor Vona and Márton Gyöngyösi had done the same thing on the issue of immigration: they would have criticized and attacked the government. Márton Gyöngyösi took a pro-immigration position in Brussels according to Brussels expectations [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Lies!]] And now you've elected him your president, and I didn't hear him say anything else. Maybe he said something like that, maybe he said something like that. But it can't be easy for the other parties anyway. Because what did they say about Martin Gyöngyösi? Let's say, Szabó Timea, he's not here at the moment: he's not worthy to be a Member of Parliament, return his mandate. The point came when I agreed that even if it was up to one vote, I wouldn't cooperate with them. I wonder if you still have it. Are you still not going to cooperate with Martin Gyöngyösi? Or Agnes Vadai, maybe the congresswoman didn't get here. He asked for the Jobbik to be dissolved because of Martin Gyöngyösi. Are you re-submitting your proposal to break up Jobbik? [[Moore in the opposition benches.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány said that a significant part of the left-wing voters do not forget to list people, they do not forget to play the guard, and they cannot and do not have to agree with the Nazis. Will Ferenc Gyurcsány want to keep a distance from the new President of Jobbik and the entire Jobbik faction, honourable Member? You know, when they gave up their identity, they came to a slippery slope from which there is no going back. You have such a large faction because Ferenc Gyurcsány allowed you such a large faction. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Brenner Koloman: the zero percent KDNP! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I am curious that, after this election of Márton Gyöngyösi to his president, the politicians who always think of themselves as democratic left-wing politicians again will say these sentences, or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-28	I now give the floor to László Varju, the representative of DK.
u2022-07-04-29	Dear Parliament, You must have gotten used to me talking about economic and budgetary matters in general, and in the midst of the brutal Orbán austerity package, there would be an actuality of this. I could talk about inflation in Orbán, about the fact that regional record inflation in Hungary has nothing to do with war, much more about the nature of the Orbán system and its consequences. May I remind you that in 2010 the euro exchange rate was HUF 275, so they took over government, and from here the war did not deliver the euro over HUF 400, but you and your votes. I could go through the rest of the currency in the region and demonstrate that, interestingly, neither the Polish złoty nor the Czech crown were affected by the war, thus proving that you are lying on this issue as well. I could point out the confusion of the Orbán government during the crisis, that Péter Szijjártó considers the Orbán government a government for tax reductions, and at the same time György Matolcsy sees the cause of high inflation in special taxes and tax increases. It doesn't help with the very firmness or the volume. I could pull out the conflicting statements of your Minister for Restriction, Martin the Great, that the price stop is good and necessary, and that the price stop is bad and that he may not know what reality really is either. I could also talk about how much EU money Hungary has already lost because of the fact that you are cheating and stealing without stopping, the enormous impact of the suspension of EU subsidies on the forint exchange rate. You obviously expect me to do this, perhaps, but that is not what I would be talking about; something that is above party politics and battles, at least that is how it should be. The Speaker is punishing us now because we have a very clear opinion on what we think about the legitimacy of this government. Sometimes he takes the word away, sometimes he punishes me, but it doesn't bother him that he's in an infected party hiding child killers. I'm thinking about the case of the foundation led by Csaba Böjte, which is my answer to the fact that it turns out that a tutor could have harassed and abused children in his care for ten years. You claim that no one has noticed, only 15 former abusers claim that everyone in the institution knew about the harassment: 36 sexual crimes against 15 boys for ten years. A few days ago, this disgrace came to light, and you are already blaming the press because you think they're just embarrassing Csaba Böjte on the child-harassment case. You know what I mean? They're not worried about the children, they're not trying to protect the abused, sexually harassed, vulnerable children, they're trying to protect their own allies, comrades. This is the number one time you've made sacrifices out of those responsible, often ignoring minor victims, turning your back on everything you've ever said about children. Without a list, I can't tell you how many times we've seen this from you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] , from their secretly driven pedophile diplomat, Gábor Kaleta, to the children's homes in Calocsa and Bicske, Fidesz XVII. The former mayor of the district or the church cases in Hungary, which were accidentally revealed as the tip of the iceberg. Yet you have never launched a comprehensive investigation. I don't know what the moon looks like, but I do know that you are in my eyes a party of child-killers. It's a moral debauchery and a moral crisis with no medication, no forgiveness. If you're covering for sexual predators, pedophiles, and throwing the kids at them, you're sitting at the bottom of a moral Mariana ditch, from which you can only go to hell, if you believe in anything like that. [[14.10]] Does it matter that you are apparently powerless against inflation? I wish that was the biggest problem with you. It could be helped, but it can't be helped. [[Applause from the DK benches. Bence Rétvári: Neither do many applaud this!]]
u2022-07-04-30	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2022-07-04-31	Allow me to react briefly. In the case of child protection, the laws apply equally to everyone. If there is any suspicion of lawlessness, the authorities must do their duty. And my third statement is that whoever tries to get Brother Csaba Böjte involved in this is immeasurably unworthy and fits in with the line that DK and the left as a whole have against the churches in recent years, but I could also say that he has demonstrated and presented in decades. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] So what I would like to emphasise once again is that it is extremely unworthy. Brother Csaba Böjte, I don't know what else he would have to do to prove his commitment not only to the country, not only to the nation, but to the affairs of all the Hungarian and non-Hungarian children in distress. Your speech is a disgrace, I think. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] As far as economic issues are concerned, let's talk about this. Let's talk about the fact that we're in a situation where the most important question is that we're in the shadow of a war. If it were up to you, we would be closer to this war, but regardless, the economic impact is felt all over Europe, for example, inflation has jumped everywhere. Your representatives claim without inhibition on television that there is no inflation anywhere else, this only affects Hungary, while the Orbán government is responsible for the whole thing. There's no barrier! Your fellow Member sits there, sitting behind you without inhibition, saying that there is no such type of inflation elsewhere in the region. [[Laszlo Varju: Don't say that.]] While the facts show otherwise. And then we will not talk about the fact that we have never mentioned your fellow Member's cases here in Parliament, nor would we like to violate the dignity of this House by referring to it. Yes, Congressman Gréczy, I am referring to you, since these types of cases have come up. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] So, here we are in a war situation, where what basically determines the scope of the Hungarian economy is when there will be peace. And despite the strong growth of the Hungarian economy, we first faced an epidemic and then a war situation. Nevertheless, the Hungarian economy has increased by 7.1 percent in the last year, and we hope that this year will continue. The unemployment rate, despite all difficulties, is 3.5 percent. In your time, it was almost 12 percent, and we managed to take it down. So we have a clear basis for comparison of what it is like when the left is dealing with a crisis and what it is like when the right is dealing with a crisis. One involves 12 percent unemployment and the other by reducing it to less than 4 percent. If you are interested in the situation of wages in Hungary, not only in attacking the government and Brother Csaba, you may not consider the fact that gross average earnings have increased by 15 percent in one year, despite any difficulties, and the minimum wage has also increased. [[László Varju intervenes.]] The minimum wage has also increased! Well, look at it, Mr honourable Member, how much the minimum wage in Hungary increased by a few thousand forints when you were in a government position. [[László Varju: I checked!]] They then come here and criticize the government after a few thousand forints, while it was this government that nearly tripled the minimum wage in Hungary, which also applies to the minimum wage for skilled workers. And if we look at the livelihoods of families, this was the government that put in price-stops, food stops, gas stops, energy prices, and we can't help but say that when these decisions were made, you criticized them all the time. Your candidate for Prime Minister, your joint candidate for Prime Minister Kálmán Olga's candidate, Representative László Varju's candidate for Prime Minister, the candidate for PM of the momentists, said that it is foolish to stop prices at the border, that prices cannot be stopped at the border. After that, they will come here and hold the government accountable for war inflation, so that war inflation is not the government's fault, it's the war itself. That is why I would like to repeat once again what the Prime Minister has already said: then we can do the most for the Hungarians to make a living [[László Varju: If you resign!]] If we do our best to achieve peace as soon as possible, we will be able to break down war inflation. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-04-32	Now the KDNP representative, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, has asked for the floor. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-07-04-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The dialogue on the future of Europe was initiated by the institutions of the European Union in the form of a series of conferences in 2019. In this statement, the signatories said that the conference on the future of Europe will open up a new room for debate with citizens to address the challenges and priorities facing Europe. We owe thanks to civilians for a great deal of invested work, which has added value, even when the elite in Brussels is trying to use the conclusions to shape their own political goals, trying to make the ground a federal union. He does this in the absence of consensus. As a member of the Hungarian National Parliament delegation and the Working Group on Climate Change and the Environment, I have also seen how the organisation of the conference series on the future of Europe is taking place. As a member of the Climate Change Task Force, I was saddened to see that, despite the efforts of many of us, nuclear energy was not included in the classification of sustainable energy. However, I am sure that these reality-based efforts are indispensable and rational, as opposed to today's left-wing proposals, especially at a time when we are faced with war inflation and energy prices. The left does not accept that instead of sanctions policy, we must strive for peace in order to end the war as soon as possible. We are therefore refusing to discuss the difficulty of our access to Russian gas. The Hungarian government stands up for Hungarian interests and enforces what has happened in the context of the EU climate protection package. It is sad that we have to fight to ensure that Brussels develops the EU's measures to achieve the 2030 climate targets on the basis of reality. At the same time, during the successful negotiation, we have achieved the inclusion of guarantee elements in the climate protection package, which will ensure that the results of the domestic reduction are protected in the long term. On the other hand, left-wing politicians, including Gergely Karácsony, as mayor, said that we should turn off the decorative lighting first in the capital area, and that the city's management will decide on the climate in the summer and the use of heating in public institutions in winter. In addition, this will include district heating services, so that 240 thousand consumers of the Main Distance in Budapest can be affected. Or, as Deputy Mayor Kata Tüttő, he suggested to the population that they consume less energy, reduce car use, while using his own car all the time. In addition, in Brussels forums, he said that the capital city quickly and expects many changes from the population in a very short period of time. The inefficiency of austerity at the expense of people is a recurring, typical element in the thinking of the left. Frans Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for green policy, has also heard some rather shocking sentences, including the suggestion that instead of washing, we should air our clothes, or the idea of carbon tax, which is not about real climate protection, but also about the taxation of people, Hungarian people. This direction is totally unacceptable in times of war inflation and economic crisis. The introduction of a new EU tax cannot be a solution to Europe's current challenges. And is this the left that feels capable of defining Europe's future? Well, thank you, but we do not ask for it, as the Hungarian people strongly indicated with another two-thirds support. Ladies and gentlemen, We do need to talk about the future of Europe, especially in times of current crisis. Our country is clearly in favour of European unity, we were one of the most active participants in the conference series. We have made the second most contributions in proportion to population, and we have always been in favour of dialogue. Peace is our greatest common asset in Europe, and we must therefore do everything we can to achieve an immediate ceasefire and to begin peace negotiations. We must represent the Hungarian people and convey their views to the European institutions. [[14.20]] Europe's future can be achieved not with more Unions, but with a smarter European Union. The European Union can only be strengthened with strong nation states and capable Member States. This is also the aim of the proposal for a decision on the future of Europe. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] With a stronger Europe, Hungary and the European Union will be stronger. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-34	Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-07-04-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to draw your attention to the document issued by the Ministry of Justice to summarise the Hungarian proposals of the conference on the future of Europe. This document.. Long live the Hungarian freedom! Long live the country! He's got an address. The honourable Member also presented the process that marked this conference. I believe that the Parliament should know how to sum up this conference, and that this document contains information on the message of Hungarian contributions: Based on the analysis of domestic events, it can be concluded that Hungarians continue to be pro-European, but are skeptical of extreme federalism, which is not the key to a stronger and more effective European Union. There was a clear need to respect the sovereignty of the Member States at the events on a wide range of topics covered by the conference. The EU institutions should work to promote cooperation between Member States, respecting national traditions and constitutional frameworks. Proposals have been made to strengthen the role of national parliaments and to respect the division of competences laid down in the founding treaties. Hungarian opinions strongly reject the stealthy extension of powers, stand for the maintenance of unanimous decision-making and oppose the expansion of areas affected by majority decision-making. Proposals have been made to reform the European Parliament, for example, to reduce the number of Members and to delegate them from national parliaments. According to the Hungarian contributions, the integration of the Western Balkan countries into the EU as soon as possible is essential for the stability of the continent. According to the Hungarian proposals, the European Union should support the efforts of the Member States to protect their borders. Migration policy should be national. Member States should determine to what extent they intend to make use of labour migration. A clear distinction must be made between immigrants and refugees. Demographic problems should not be addressed by facilitating migration. Proposals have been made to strengthen the EU's defence sovereignty and to strengthen its resilience to external threats. Citizens stressed the importance of nuclear energy to ensure energy supply. Many proposals suggest that the protection of Europe's Christian roots and traditions should be one of the EU's core values. Supporting families, educating children, keeping sexual propaganda away from schools, and respecting the competences of the Member States on family and marriage issues are also a priority among the proposals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, As a result of the conference, proposals were made on the basis of the opinion of Hungarian citizens and the following proposals were communicated to the Commission of the European Union: In particular, we say no to the efforts to build a European empire. Integration is an instrument and not an end in itself. This is the message of the Hungarians. The decisions will be taken by the elected leaders and not by international NGOs or EU bodies expanding beyond their competence. The strength of European integration comes from common economic success. We must protect European people and their way of life. European democracy must be restored and the role of national parliaments and national representation strengthened. The Commission's obligation to make the legislative proposals requested by the European Council and the Council should be laid down. The collective rights of indigenous minorities should be fixed, their autonomy should be exercised in practice and targeted support should be provided. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Well, this House, unfortunately, from the conclusions of the series of conferences organised by the European Union, the Commission has forgotten the Hungarian proposals, so the Government welcomes the fact that the Parliament will strengthen the opinion of the Hungarian people in its proposal for a resolution, so we are still trying to deliver this opinion to the centre of the European Union, Brussels. Please support that resolution. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-36	Dear House, Today's final speaker is János Halász, representative of Fidesz. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-07-04-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Our eastern neighbor continues to fight bloody battles. The prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war is causing serious economic difficulties in Europe, war inflation is affecting the continent's countries and there is also an unprecedented energy crisis. The situation is aggravated by the fact that Ukrainian wheat and maize cannot reach the Asian and African markets because of the war. As a result, we are faced with a horror of the unprecedented food crisis. There is a famine in the Middle East and North Africa, and this dynamically stimulates illegal migration. There is a danger that another gigantic scale of migration will take place in the direction of Europe, including the Hungarian border. However, the migratory pressure on the southern border is already increasing from month to month: 46,000 migrants have tried to enter Hungary illegally throughout the year in 2020, last year and in 21 they have already tried to break into Hungary twice as much in the same period as 2021 in the first six months of this year. Similarly, the number of captured smugglers is increasing, more than 800 have already been arrested by the authorities this year. This is a more than 20% increase compared to 2021. Moreover, migrants are increasingly aggressive, increasingly organised and attacking the Hungarian border in increasing numbers. This is confirmed by the reports of our soldiers and police officers, as well as by the footage near the border fence. Often migrants attack with slingshots, slingshots, large logs, but more often they come armed with firearms. The day before yesterday, at dawn on 2 July, two migrant groups were firing weapons at the Hungarian border next to Subotica. There are reports of fatalities, reports from the local press that Afghan and Pakistani migrant gangs attacked each other. In addition, migrants also opened fire on policemen. This incident last Saturday also shows that there is an increasing risk that there will soon be scenes on the border similar to those on 16 September 2015 in Röszke. We can remember that seven years ago hundreds of migrants, led by some aggressive speakers, broke through the border-locking gate on the Serbian side. The attackers threw stones, sticks, and concrete at our police officers lined up on the border, raining rocks on them, burning tires. The police were only able to restore order in hours of struggle, tear gas, and water cannon. Dear House, We can say that Hungary is in a more difficult situation than any other European state at the moment, because it affects both the war in Ukraine and the flood of migrants. The former has already brought 800,000 refugees to the country, while this year there are more than 100,000 illegal border crossings. And while our police and soldiers are doing everything in their power to guarantee the stability, sovereignty and security of our country, there is a fear that in the future we will not be able to stop migrants with the organization we have been able to do. Therefore, it is time for a body to stand up, which deals exclusively with border protection. We need to create border-hunting squadrons, which, as far as possible, will operate within the framework of the police. It is important to see that the soldiers and police have so far been led from different parts of the country to the southern border. Now that the war zone is approaching the eastern borders of Hungary, every minute that soldiers do not spend preparing, strengthening their defence capabilities is a luxury. Soldiers should therefore be removed from the borders to participate in the implementation of the accelerated development programme of the Hungarian army. And our police officers are missing their original station in order to maintain public security, and they're doing a lot of work, far away from their families. There is therefore a need for border hunting units. [[14.30]] Dear House, Serial acts of terrorism repeatedly prove that illegal immigration and terrorism go hand in hand. Moreover, during the period of epidemics, migrants pose not only national security but also health risks. In view of this, it is even more outrageous and dangerous that the left is constantly attacking the fight against illegal migration. They are still sneaking around, pretending that this danger does not exist, and they are still openly pro-immigration. We Hungarians don't want any of this. This was also shown and sent by the Hungarians on 3 April. The government can count on the Fidesz fraction in the fight against illegal immigration. He stands by the government with all his might. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-38	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You referred to the shooting in Subotica in the last few days. We have been talking here in Parliament for some time now about the growing aggression of smugglers and the attempts to bring more and more illegal migrants into the territory of the European Union at the Serbian-Hungarian border, but this shooting in Subotica, this gang war, shows what a danger immigration is, on the one hand, in the no-go zones. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] something like this happens in Western Europe, which we have seen not far from the Hungarian border. On the other hand, it shows that immigration and immigration organisers are increasingly aggressive and increasingly violent in the process of immigration. I've already reported that earlier shots were fired, stones of different sizes, brick fragments were thrown...
u2022-07-04-40	If you'd like to take your microphone in your hand, or if you'd pick it up, that would be fine. [[It's happening.]]
u2022-07-04-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I've already told you what kind of shots were fired, or different stones and bricks were thrown at the border guards, and they threw axes and hammers at the fence or at the back. When there are surveillance stations, their plexies have been broken in in many cases, and we can talk about cases in the order of 100 when they attacked police officers protecting the Hungarian border or tried to damage either the fence or the technical equipment related to the fence. We have also seen countless videos of surveillance cameras being removed by the first immigrants, so that those arriving after them can cross the border without recording. You have also pointed out that the number of illegal border crossings and border crossing attempts is constantly increasing. This was 46 thousand throughout the year in 2020, last year there were 122 thousand throughout the year, and this year we have already crossed 110 thousand, so we are only a large 10-12 thousand people away from reaching the same level as last year's annual migration figure this summer. The number of smugglers and captured smugglers is also rising, from 455 to 1277 last year, and this year we are now over 820 in relation to captured smugglers; 71 attacks against vehicles, 166 cases against persons, and 21 cases against the fence itself, the temporary border lock. Although the government has tried to give support to many people to help protect the southern border, the vigilantes have also received HUF 371 million, the field guards have also received HUF 170 million in support. But indeed, because we can see that, on the one hand, the messages that encourage migration are constantly coming from Brussels towards the issuing countries, we see that the rate of migration is not falling, but is increasing, because at the beginning of the year we talked about 3,000 people per week, we can now talk about 6,500 people per week; we also see that the Ukrainian-Russian war as a third aspect will also increase the rate of migration in the issuing countries due to poverty, so it is important to set up a permanent unit dealing with border protection only, to set up a border-hunting regiment within police ties, which only deals with the protection of the Hungarian southern border and starts its activities in the Hungarian-Serb border section. They don't need any training other than general police training, which is only and exclusively related to border protection, so they can be trained faster. Obviously, officers, commanders, must be removed from a professional police force, but the rest of the staff can be used flexibly from border hunting units. This flexibility is important because when there is more pressure at the border, when more immigrants are more, more border hunters are obviously needed when there is less pressure, and there is no need for so many people, so flexibility is also important. We have seen that we have not received any support from the left to defend the southern border. There is almost no left-wing party president who hasn't laid down allegiance to Brussels and hasn't said that they are indeed on the side of migration. In fact, your most recent candidate for Prime Minister said that the most important issue is not immigration itself, but integration. But everyone, such as Klára Dobrev, said that this is just a communication trick on the part of the government. Gábor Vona, Márton Gyöngyösi also took the oath of pro-immigration and made pro-immigration statements, attacking the fence. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: He's lying! We didn't even sell bonds!]] According to Ferenc Gyurcsány, the government builds on the worst instincts when it wants to put a fence on the southern border. And Gergely Christmas told me that there was no way that the border fence would be built, and that I could go on with the quotes. It also shows that only the Fidesz-KDNP government can protect Hungary, which is why we are setting up this new police unit to protect Hungary's southern border. If that were not the case, migrants would be free to roam Hungary and cross the border illegally. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-42	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-07-04-43	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Mária Kállai, Fidesz; Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dócs, Dávid, Mi Hazank.
u2022-07-04-44	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr András Fekete-Győr has received a motion for the waiver of immunity from Parliamentary MEPs' immunity on 29 June 2022 6.B.21.073/2020/67. I'm a member of the Pesti Central District Court in a public prosecutor's case of assault against an official. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. Dear Parliament, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that during the count of votes, the inaugural assembly of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union will take place here in the Chamber. I ask the faction leaders to ensure the presence necessary for the quorum. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:38 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. I would ask my fellow Members to leave the room quietly and quickly. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Ferenc Dávid, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-07-04-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, There are about 450 thousand Katács entrepreneurs in Hungary. They are all plus family members of these entrepreneurs, waiting for complete uncertainty, looking to the future with concern. László Parragh, who needs a special soothing for his statements, announced already in the summer of 2020 that it was necessary to amend the specific tax of small-tax companies, the rules of the kata. Then Gergely Gulyás, Minister, ran to interpret and reassure the Government:. The rules of the kata do not change. And now we are talking about the fact that last week, the Secretary of State, András Tállai, said in a reply that the Kata was being led out. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[14.40]] In view of the loudness of the meeting room and the marvellous gaze of the Fidesz MEPs, it was quickly corrected that the negotiations were taking place. Dear Secretary of State, The kata is a simple and transparent form of taxation, it is easy to manage, and there is no doubt that if you touch this system unprofessionally, it will end in a tax increase, because either the tax to be paid will rise or limit the range of those who may fall within the scope of the tax. Those who are now concerned that you are not going to tell us what they want are not interested in crowds avoiding classic employment even because of the future pension problem, but it may be a minimum expectation that, during a budget debate, a multitude of taxpayers will be able to find out what is waiting for them. Who's talking to whom? Are you going to ask the business representatives, the accounting companies, about this? Do they take their opinions into account? Will you delete the Kata, perhaps harmonise it to the entire tax system, the general wage level? Are you taking into account the problems of businesses affected by inflation? When's the decision about Kata? Please give a clear answer: will the kata remain, and if so, to what extent will the tax increase be, how much more should be paid each month? How will this affect the businesses concerned and the problems of the budget that is in ruin? That's what we're waiting for. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-04-46	I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2022-07-04-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I will not be able to give concrete answers to the final amendment of the kata, since we can only know this, they can know it when the bill comes before the Parliament, but in order for this to happen, the government has to negotiate it, put it in the form of a bill, and it will come here. This does not mean that the Ministry of Finance and the Government are doing nothing, not dealing with the issue. Several meetings and discussions were held on the conversion of the kata, for example, the professional chambers, the accountants, the tax advisors took part in this discussion. In which there was agreement between them and the government that, during the transformation, the kata became a success story, and the results of this must be preserved. Allow me to make a political comment here: this is not due to your party, DK, because when you had to vote for Kata, you did not vote for it when we modified it and made it more favourable, you did not vote for it. But I am pleased that you are now arguing that what you have not voted for should remain taxation. But let's get back to what the kata has achieved: first of all, we need a low administrative need from the entrepreneur. We also managed to involve kata in economic whitening activities that had not been achieved before. The tax burden is very fair, especially with regard to the existences of self-services selling their products to the general public. And what is the purpose? The aim is to give preference to those businesses, to the self-servicer selling a product to the general public, and to carry out a low level of administrative burden on the public by paying a fair rate of taxation. There was no discussion at the meeting that the current rate, which is a total of 5 per cent, was far from justified. This may also cause problems in other respects, since it will mean a low pension for those affected, and if you don't give it to God, you will also have to go to a permanent illness, and you will also have disadvantages in terms of sickness. Of course, it is not from the devil to discuss the provision of an increase in the supply fund. Nor is it a devil's fault that it may be tied to the minimum wage at all times. So the government and professional organisations are thinking and coordinating on the reform of the kata. I believe that soon a bill will come before the Parliament, which will meet these objectives, and will also satisfy a significant number of those involved. With all due respect, Mr President, I would like to ask you to be patient and you will soon learn the details, but allow me to discuss it first by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-04-48	I ask Congressman to accept the answer.
u2022-07-04-49	No, Mr. President, and I will explain why. I was very clear, and I didn't ask for it in my own name, but for 450 thousand small businessmen. Secretary of State has asked for my patience. I wouldn't be impatient, but 450 thousand small entrepreneurs don't know when and how the kata system changes. I think that I have asked quite clear and clear questions here as to who they are negotiating with. Neither did I get an answer to that, nor to when, nor to how, nor to how, to raise how, this system is being changed. Therefore, I cannot accept that answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-04-50	Therefore, Congressman did not accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision to accept responses to the interpellations will take place today. Now János Bence, as a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-07-04-51	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, If we look down from the sky at Hungary, it can be seen from the Moon that Hungary was created in the heart of the Carpathian Basin by God for a real agricultural country with excellent land conditions. We have everything we need to feed Europe with quality food. We could be Europe's pantry, and this pantry should provide prosperity in the Hungarian countryside. People living in the Hungarian countryside should live in a well-being that they can only dream of in Europe, but as we walk around the countryside, we blow up the veil of self-deception, but for some reason we do not see this: properties for sale, weeds, closed blinds, few young people in the Hungarian countryside. Why is that? Let's look behind things, then. If someone stays in the country, like I did and my family, we face the fact that if you want to go to work for a decent wage, for a salary that you can make a living from, the next time you can get a job at an industrial multinational, 60 to 90 kilometers from where you live, so a part of your life is gonna cost you access. If, on the other hand, you stay in the countryside, you want to work locally, you will be confronted with the fact that you are a local industry, but you can mostly work for a much lower wage level than a foreign industrial multinational. Why is he getting a lot less wages? If we look at the Hungarian support system, the industrial multinationals, the assembly plants, the foreign stakeholders are getting rich in subsidies just because they're industry, just because they're assemblers. However, if a Hungarian rural agricultural enterprise, whether small or large, does a job with high living needs, animal farming, crop production, beekeeping, anything, I stress, is looking for a high live labour demand, so it doesn't look for a man with a tractor on a thousand hectares, it goes into an employment centre and can't benefit from the same subsidies as an industrial multinational. Why is this in an agricultural country? I ask myself, and many people ask this in the Hungarian countryside. Why is it that in the country that could be Europe's pantry, foreign industrial multinationals are supported? Jobbik, the party of the countryside, is asking you and proposing, and we will put this concrete proposal on the table so that the same labour subsidies are available to industry in sectors with high living needs, agriculture. I ask you to be partners in this and, as you have said, to support the countryside, to really support whether the pig farmers or the winemakers or other sectors where real living work is needed, human attention, receive these subsidies. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-04-52	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-07-04-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to note that agricultural policy, as the oldest common policy in the European Union, is subject to detailed and comprehensive EU legislation, which defines the form of agricultural support measures. Therefore, there is no labour support in agriculture, but there is additional income support on a territorial basis and in other respects, compensation payments for environmental and animal welfare, investment aid and measures to encourage generation renewal, cooperation and knowledge transfer. [[14.50]] These support policy instruments are used mainly by the Hungarian government to develop the labour-intensive agricultural sector. This is due to the fact that one of the main agricultural policy objectives of the post-2010 governments: priority is the priority of the labour-intensive and higher added value economic and agricultural sectors, such as vegetable, fruit production, seed production and livestock production. To this end, we have also transformed our agricultural support system after 2010: fruit and vegetables producers, beef farmers, milk producers and sheep farmers can obtain coupled support, which contributes to the development of these sectors. We have multiplied animal welfare subsidies for poultry and pigs, and made available to vegetable and fruit producers and livestock farmers a key part of the investment resources of the rural development programme between 2014 and 22 respectively. Furthermore, we facilitated the financing of farmers' current assets and investments through preferential loan schemes and loan guarantee support. In order to increase production and income security, we were the first to introduce the agricultural crisis insurance system in Europe in 2021, which is the first risk management tool available for livestock production. We also support organisations producing fruit and vegetables in particular. These objectives, policy orientations, have also been pursued in the preparation of a so-called strategic plan containing domestic measures of the common agricultural policy between 2023 and 2027. Production-related subsidies remain, priority investment grants will be available, and an enlarged animal welfare support system will serve the development of livestock production, and significant resources will also encourage the development of irrigation and producer cooperation. To sum up, I would like to point out that the government, by all means available, encourages the development of labour-intensive sectors, thereby contributing to an increase in employment and income in rural areas and to an increase in food safety. Honourable Congressman, I would just like to say to you as a subnote, that is why we cannot stop at the technological standard that we have experienced over the past decades and think about maintaining labour-intensive sectors. Therefore, it is very important that the new technological elements that we call robotics, automation and other things digitalization should continue to be introduced as soon as possible, because it can increase its competitiveness. We're gonna make sure that soon, we're gonna be picking robots, say, ripe tomatoes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the greenhouse, too, but it's just a comment, we're not here yet. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-54	I'll give the floor back to the congressman in return.
u2022-07-04-55	Thank you very much for your professional response, but I can't really accept it, because I have asked for living-work support in high-living sectors, and the strange thing is that the government can fight Brussels whenever it wants, for some reason not. I ask you to fight Brussels, because there are Members sitting in your benches who have heard this question. So, once again, I would like to ask that, in order to preserve rural life, sectors with high living needs also have access to living labour support. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-04-56	Therefore, Congressman did not accept the answer. Dear Parliament, Eva Sebők, representative of Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. I give you the floor.
u2022-07-04-57	Thank you very much. Recently, Dr. László Elek Hospital and Clinic informed the Orosháza people that several days of surgical care were temporarily unavailable in the hospital. According to the official justification, it was said that the reason for the interruption was to make improvements. At the same time, according to the information we have received, the reason for the interruption is the professional, especially the lack of nurses. Here are my questions. Why is a so-called temporary cessation of care necessary? What is the end date of the recess? I mean, the hospital didn't give me that. How long will the hospital in Orosháza stay without trauma? In this regard, I would ask you to reply with a specific date. Or should we expect further,, temporary, class closures, and now I've placed the transitional in a quotation mark in any of the Pékés county hospitals? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-07-04-58	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-07-04-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Allow me, above all, to report what has happened in the hospital in Orosháza in recent years. First, the emergency care department was upgraded from around HUF 240 million. Then the biggest development was when the central technological array was created, and we spent 1.6 billion forints on it. After that, the hospital received a surplus of nearly HUF 50 million. This was followed by the purchase of new medical devices from HUF 351 million. It was an energy efficiency development of HUF 202 million. We tried to improve patient safety from HUF 199 million to reduce patients' exposure to new infections or new complications. The institution could spend 134 million forints on the development of a nursing home. 130 million forints to build a solar system; for human resources development, i.e. 150 million forints for the development and expansion of the workforce; for training programmes, training courses, for obtaining the best possible qualification of the staff; for diagnostic development, ultrasound and other purchases, 50 million forints. A total of 3.5 billion forints spent on hospital development in recent years, but obviously the hospital in Orosháza is not the only one. In addition to 90 hospitals across the country, similar developments were made in 54 clinics and 107 rescue stations. We've built 23 new clinics and 34 new rescue stations. I think it is important to say these things, even the new constructions here, because your program was not about building new ones, it was about closing the current ones. Imre László, your health politician, said that there are too many hospitals in Hungary, and this should be halved. So it wouldn't have been about where we were developing, but one of the three hospitals in the county would have shut down with him, because he was thinking at least 50 percent closure; but then Zoltán Komáromi, your other health politician, said that it would be worth shutting down more hospitals than Imre László said, and it would be enough than Imre László mentioned. So maybe Zoltán Komáromi would have closed two of the three hospitals in its entirety, and there would have been only one, or at least, if we had looked at the national numbers, that would have been it. Not to mention that you put faith in the campaign in paying health care, so no matter how many hospitals were left, everyone would have been able to get in there with a visitation fee, so obviously many people wouldn't have gone. The hospital's announcement said that the emergency care department will continue to operate, that the trauma department will continue to operate, that they are trying to expand the scope of overnight benefits, and that the emergency services will decide that if someone needs a multi-day care, they will be transferred to Békéscsaba or Gyula, but the sbo will also work in Orosháza, honourable Member. All other medical, professional and detailed questions were also included in the hospital statement, from which you quoted, but there are other parts. What improvements you're planning at the hospital, let me say one more word about that. On the one hand, the expansion of overnight trauma care is being considered within the hospital and the development of the clinic. Not only do they think, but they are already in plans, let us hope that they can be realized, so that everyone in the county is able to get to a hospital where they can provide them with the highest possible degree of progression. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-60	I will once again give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2022-07-04-61	Thank you very much. I would very much like to hear an answer to an interpellation that can finally be accepted. I don't accept the answer, there's a simple reason for that, I asked three questions, none of which were answered. [[15.00]] I'm here to tell the Russians when he's gonna open up again, and I didn't get an answer to that. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would like to draw attention to the fact that our health politician is Gábor Havasi, so you should be kind enough to quote him. As I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that currently, in the social media groups in Russia, the Russians are asking each other about where to go for a paid blood test, where to go to a paid endocrinologist, where to go for a paid allergy test. What's this if it's not paid for health care? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-07-04-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The next Member, Imre Komjathi, from the group of the MSZP. Congressman Imre Komjathi has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm gonna start asking questions again. With the end of the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, several previously extended deadlines have expired, affecting social benefits, travel benefits, eviction moratorium, and ultimately people. In the meantime, the government has ordered another emergency, which is also supposed to protect families, that's beside the point. The pensioners only got a 3.9 percent raise, that's their respect, but they have the frozen chicken butt-back, so they don't have to rule it, do they? It is certain that the eviction moratorium will cease, which experts estimate affects thousands of people in some 3,000 homes. Eviction of families with children without accommodation is still not acceptable. Even though there has been a moratorium so far, the government has not changed the rules, has not accepted anything from the proposals of civilians and parties, so families will be on the street again. The abolition of the free travel discount also affects hundreds of thousands of people, as it also affected workers working in the social sphere, health care, law enforcement and other areas of the public service. After Covid, life has become increasingly difficult for many since the outbreak of the war because of double-digit inflation, and the forint is at an unprecedented low point again. Everyone is costing more and more in all areas, but most people's salaries and pensions do not follow this at all, so hundreds of thousands of people will slip down and become poor. In both written and oral questions, we asked how many people will be affected by the cessation of benefits, benefits, moratoriums, and how much assistance the government will provide to those in need, but unfortunately we did not receive any meaningful answers other than the usual ringing, and they learned that subsidies would be granted under the otherwise existing eligibility conditions. For all these reasons, how many people lose their supply and discounts in the coming weeks, months after the emergency that expired on June 1st? What help will the government provide later? Does the new emergency affect all of this? Are you planning to broaden the social network so as not to increase the number of people living in poverty? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-07-04-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Fortunately, over the last 12 years, the proportion of people exposed to poverty in Hungary has been significantly reduced. Eurostat has confirmed this, and when I have time, I will come back to this at the end of my reply. At the same time, it is a little strange that when you talk about such things, what kind of budgetary amendments you are proposing, honourable Member. You, while saying that people should be helped, would increase the public burden by HUF 3240 billion. As the Minister of Finance said, they would only take 200 billion forints out of carbon tax, mostly from the people. The burden of Hungarian companies would be further increased, for whom, you say, people should earn more, and Hungarian companies should be more prosperous. Compared to this, you would try to collect more than HUF 2360 billion from Hungarian companies, not to mention that you would spend all your reserves several times and join the embargoes. If we had joined the embargoes that Hungary is grateful to God, it could have made sure that there were no oil embargoes in Hungary and in the European Union, not according to the original proposals, well, think about it, then the price of petrol would not be 700-800 forints, which everyone sees for the first time at the gas station, and then pays the official price at the cash register, but would be much higher. And the price of everything would be much higher, and it would burden families more. And in addition, besides the effects of the embargo, you are attacking the overhead and the price stops. They also attacked the price stop of VAT on basic foods, and had not previously voted for the reduction of VAT on basic foods, nor had they previously supported the rate stop. After that, spending another HUF 3000 billion on families with budget amendments would put Hungarian families in a difficult position. As regards social benefits, honourable Member, you have asked: there are fixed-term benefits and benefits for which some kind of review has to be carried out from time to time, where there is no need to carry out a review, that goes mutatis mutandis, so your question does not apply. Where temporary care is involved, it is clear that during the emergency it was not possible to go to the various reviews, which is why we have extended these fixed periods for as long as the duration of the emergency, so that everyone has another transitional period in which they could make such reviews. If you have obtained these certificates, certificates of income and state certificates after the expiry of the emergency and the grace period, after the extended deadlines, these will, of course, be repeated. During the time of the emergency, they were granted the right, without having been confirmed, because the duration of the previous entitlement was extended with the duration of the emergency and had to be acquired only later. In the case of a certain periodic review, the obligation to do so was also deferred. As soon as the review was over, as soon as it was possible to go back to the doctor, to the offices, this matter was settled, then these reviews were scheduled to be carried out and thus extended for everyone. So if I wanted to answer with one sentence, no one would be eliminated by the end of the emergency, because anyone who is still in a state for which he is entitled has been given a longer period of time to verify this condition, if the epidemic has stalled, he has been given this extra time, during that period of time, and then, if he is entitled, he will continue to be paid. So that's why no one could get into a difficult situation. Since I still have ten seconds left, I can tell you that according to Eurostat, the proportion of Hungarians at risk of poverty or social exclusion fell from 31 percent in 2010 to 18 percent. So, while in Europe in 12 years, one in ten people at risk of poverty managed to get into the middle class, today more than four in ten people in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-67	Thank you very much. The reason I'm having a problem with this is that I don't accept the answer, because otherwise, your professional argument has points of support and good points. [[Bence Rétvári: Thank you very much.]] I have a problem with political reasoning. You regularly blur the contrast and ignore the fact that the representative of the MSZP asked the question, the MSZP, which has repeatedly stressed that we not only support the extra-profit tax, but also expand and expand it to your oligarchs. Not only did we support the VAT reduction, but we would have gone even further, and we proposed not only once, but not twice, that the minimum wage be tax-free. So the MSZP has always been consistently with the working people, with the people in trouble, with the difficult fates, and we will still be there. So I would ask you to answer by responding to the representative of the MSZP. Thank you.
u2022-07-04-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will be taken today. Dear House, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó, the representative of the Dialogue interpellation... excuse me, I took a page. István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that by replying to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, and that on behalf of the Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond at his request. There you go. You have the floor. [[15.10]]
u2022-07-04-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, According to the bill on the central budget of 2023, the government plans to finance more than HUF 2000 billion as an advance on cohesion and rural development funds between 2021 and 2027, as the European Union has not yet approved the source of these operational programmes due to the rule of law procedure. The pre-financing of EU funds will be calculated not only for next year's budget, but also this year for more than HUF 1500 billion. In the framework of this, the interest of Lőrinc Mészáros, Ádám Matolcsy's furniture company, HUF 308 million, István Köld's company HUF 375 million and György Gattyán's company received HUF 255 million in non-refundable funding, which was also funded by the government. In order to mitigate the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic, the RRF serves as the RRF, a third of which is planned by the government for health care, almost a third for the development of sustainable green transport, with the remaining amount for public education, higher education, energy and greening. Forint 450 billion in the budget for 2022 and HUF 590 billion in the budget bill for 2023 are planned for the implementation of the RRF's objectives, of which 300 billion forints are intended for the care of doctors' incomes, but not a penny for teachers' wage increases. This means, in our understanding, that if EU funds are made, they will be used first to settle advances, teachers will still be the last in line. According to the chapter volume of the bill, the scheduled launch of the teacher's wage increase will be a priority in 2023, with the use of domestic and EU funds, but no traces of this have been found in the RFF resource use. We would like to ask the Minister or the Secretary of State's reply as to why, among the expenditure prefinanced by the RRF, the bill on the budget for 2023 does not include, like doctors, the increase in the wages of teachers and why their work is not worth as much as the pre-financing for the budget of 2022 paid for the Brexit grant. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-04-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is also important for the government to raise wages for everyone, but it was the teachers who were the first to receive a wage increase after 2010, because in 2013, the four-year wage increase programme, in which we raised the salaries of teachers by 50 percent, and in contrast to what the Left did, that they had taken the wages from teachers by reference to crisis management, compared to what we had raised twice during the Crown Virus crisis, twice by 10 percent, and once by the school directors' allowance, this could be a 30-50 percent increase in allowances and wages for school directors. And in the case of European Union funds, it is also important for us that Hungarian doctors and teachers can participate in this, so if you look at the other European Union resource, the EFOP Plus, then we will hope that if the work of left-wing representatives is a failure in Brussels, and they cannot prevent the Hungarian people from getting their own money, then we will be able to increase the salary of Hungarian teachers in the order of hundreds of billions of HUF. But you have also found that in the other source, the so-called RRF source, there is the funding that we would like to devote to this, because it was one of the most important things for us to get paid as much as possible. The government has had two important directions in recent years, if you look at it: on the one hand, to increase people's incomes, so the minimum wage has radically increased from HUF 73 500 to HUF 200,000, and therefore the taxes have decreased radically so that those who mainly raise children or work in general pay taxes, not 36 percent but 15 percent or less, this was one of our directions. But our other direction over the last ten years has consistently been to cut spending. That is why we said that there should be a reduction in the rent that Hungarian people, especially those whose share of the rent is taken away from their salary and income, should not be at risk of poverty because of the radical increase in the rent. In the current crisis, we have not only tried to freeze the overhead, but we have done so with the price of petrol, we have done this with the price of basic food, and we have also announced a stop for interest rates, precisely so that people's expenses will not increase. This is to preserve the existence of people, to help people who live on wages and salaries, because their wages are increasing, but their basic expenses do not increase so much. I would add that you are constantly attacking, at least most of the left, I do not know your position yet, I do not know exactly what our country is saying about a one-key, family-type tax. This is why we consider it important that people's wages should not be overloaded so that they do not feel that if they work twice as much, they will pay four times as much tax, and so they will go into some grey zone, and therefore we have tried to keep prices in check, which, right, is constantly, today and every day, the left is attacking, because they are echoing the Brussels mantra in Budapest saying that prices should be released here, people will have to experience what energy prices or petrol prices have doubled or tripled. We don't think that's acceptable. That is why, honourable Member, we have also said here in Parliament that we will continue to raise the wages of teachers. This year we must have paid 10 percent, so it is there, in the monthly salary of teachers, we will do the same next year, we will do the same next year, we will do 10-10-10 percent wage increase, even though you can see that in many places in the world there are very big economic problems, there are difficulties all over the world due to the Ukrainian-Russian war, but despite the economic effects of the coronal virus, this 10-10 percent wage increase has been provided to all Hungarian teachers. And next year, the wages of doctors will continue to grow, as the last part of the wage increase is agreed with the Chamber. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's coming in next year for the doctors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask the Member to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2022-07-04-73	Thank you very much. I can't accept the answer, not even because the average salary of the national economy in 2021 is 50 thousand forints behind the wages of the teachers, and the average salary of the 22nd year is still 125 thousand forints behind. It is therefore our proposal that teachers' salaries should be adjusted to the average salary in the national economy. I would also like to note that in 2021, government communication did not mention that without EU funding, there would be no wage increases for teachers. [[Bence Rétvári: Why, will there not be a European Union resource?!]] and, where necessary for wage developments, involve the Ministry of Finance's appropriations under heading management, or free savings and residuals not charged with the cost, which will extend the savings fund. We therefore believe that these residual amounts would be used to cover wage compensation for those employed in the budgetary bodies, especially for those who are free of charge. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] residual amounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-04-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. And now for Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. [[Rebecca Szabó: Thank you very much.]] I'm sorry again. [[Rebecca Szabó: No problem!]] So the next interpellier is Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Construction and Investment. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Twelve years is a long time, and in the meantime, you can see what a government does with the natural assets it gives it. For example, you can clearly see that you are interested in Lake Balaton only as long as you can make money on it, on the shores of the reeds, on the bays and estuaries, on the campsites luxurious residential parks, on the beach promenades hotels. As a result of this process, there are fewer and fewer freely accessible lakes, more and more areas that are blocked from ordinary mortals or with expensive entrances. Due to the price-expansion effect of uncounted subsidies to the oligarchs of NER, prices are already higher than on the Croatian coast, while the regime's favourites self-indulgently spend free money on yachts, swimming pool villas disguised as wine cellars and former private estates. [[15.20]] That Lake Balaton is a living system, a unique ecosystem, it doesn't seem to come up in you, even though the key to the good water quality of Lake Balaton is the vegetation of berks and coastal reeds that can still be found in many parts of the lake today. When you look at these areas, your mind's eyes are likely to flash a,, construction site and a tinkering cash register. By allowing the area of the coastal reeds to be torn apart and the empty areas and the former campsites to be built up with large-duty real estate complexes, every year the lake's immune system is being removed from its natural defences, and its load is constantly increased. This is gonna be a problem. One of the tools used to execute the lake is the priority investment law. Now, there will be any major investment that's important to the government, butcher or Tiborcz. After making it a priority investment, neither environmental standards nor local construction regulations, nor the perspectives of people living on the ground matter at all. It is very interesting that to my earlier questions, they answered in order that the government was committed to protecting the shore of Lake Balaton. But then I ask with respect how it is possible, for example, in Club Aliga, that the height of the installation was increased to 18 metres, that the land could be built to 80 percent, and that the construction site of the coastal promenade was supported by 16 construction sites, and I ask why the public budget of nearly HUF 10 billion is added to all this destruction. So the fact is that they not only allow the priority investment to destroy the beach, but they also support it with taxpayers' money, especially with regard to the destruction and destruction of the high shore. Dear Minister, I ask you, do you agree with the unique geological formation of the High Coast of Alga and by taking away the shore and view from the people of Balaton, and from all of us? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-07-04-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-77	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for the opportunity to answer you for the first time as Minister, especially on an important issue concerning Lake Balaton. I can safely say on behalf of all of us that we are talking about one of Europe's most important natural treasures. What you have expressed in your interpellation in order to preserve the values of natural values and the values of Lake Balaton, and even the water quality of Balaton, is of particular importance to me, and I support it on behalf of the government, and not only does the Fidesz government and the Fidesz fraction support it, but since March 15, 2019 there has been a law in place that guarantees eight points of what you have just said about us. So what you are talking about is the protection of the coasts, the protection of previous campsites, the protection of vegetation, the protection of water quality or the protection of socially important public functions and access, as a result of a public consultation since 2019, a very strong and strict law has been passed in the tradition of the former Balaton laws. The whole other issue is that everyone in Hungary owns Lake Balaton, everyone loves Lake Balaton, so all our Hungarian compatriots, whether they are poor or rich, want to spend their free time on Lake Balaton and not abroad. It is in the interest of all Hungarian compatriots to get to Lake Balaton for this purpose that the wallets have launched a number of social programs, but it is also in the interest of the wealthy Hungarian middle class or the large business community not to take their money abroad, but to spend it in Hungary. When your party comes into government position sometime in the next century, you will learn, Congresswoman, that it is very difficult to protect nature, to reconcile the acceptable, acceptable and important aspects of green points with the need for continuous development; with the need that our Hungarian countrymen want to go to Lake Balaton again this year, they want to live in good hotels, fortunately they have money for this, and of course they want to spend their free time normally and culturally. [[Intercom from Jobbik's ranks, widen the M7!]] In the last ten years, the country has reached an opportunity to develop the Balaton, while preserving its values. I am thinking about a system, since you asked my personal opinion, which will at the same time guarantee the preservation of natural values and guarantee that the country will develop. I think it is very right that, in recent years, the Hungarian Tourism Agency has provided money and resources to everyone who wanted to develop a hotel or accommodation at Lake Balaton, and it is very right that Hungarian entrepreneurs received this. With this, I think that all Hungarian Members of Parliament should agree. The question is how local aspects, locality aspects, local people's attachment to natural values and public access can be ensured. You are right that the system of key public investments is ripe for the review. In the autumn, my wallet not only proposes a revision of the entire order of public investment to the Parliament, but we will also look at the order of priority public investment in the framework of state investment and architectural framework law and the reregulation of construction. What I would like to say about the concrete investment, I would like to reassure all my concerned fellow Members, especially my fellow Member, Mihály Witzmann, who is the individual representative of the area, that the investment has not started. What you're talking about hasn't happened yet. We look forward to the investor's plans and ideas, I look forward to the National Planning Council to give an opinion on behalf of the community, and I will also contact the investor in order to reach a solution in consultation and agreement with the Balatonvilágos municipality, which will also guarantee to all residents that the values of nature are preserved and that public function and public access are ensured. I ask for your cooperation in this, and, of course, the contribution of the Balatonvilágos, because it is the case that my ministry must enforce the principle here and elsewhere, that it should be, that it should remain, that it should remain for the Balatonvilágos and that it should be for all Hungary from Lake Balaton. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-78	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Ms Rebecca Szabó to accept the Minister's reply.
u2022-07-04-79	Thank you for your answer. I can't accept it right now, because the thing is, even though you told me that there is a law, which is very good, but the experience is that this law is not really being observed. So it's not just the camping site in Alga, but there are construction sites in Tihany, or for example, the Zala campsite in Keszthely, 288 apartments are planned near the shore, in Balatonszemes, in the area of the Wildflower and the Swan Camping, also close to the beach. These are former camping sites, which, by the way, for people with small money, had the possibility of a cheap vacation to Balaton, and now they're going to be ruined, and there's going to be expensive residential parks there. Look, the Dialogue is a Green Party, so if we are on the government, then development will be achieved by not destroying natural resources, it may even be possible to build a residential park, but in a place where there has been a building, not near the shore, and we will not put the reeds or the water quality of Lake Balaton in jeopardy. So I hope that I would be happy if your government took the same path, and I will continue to ask about it in the future. [[János Lázár: Thank you very much.]] But unfortunately for now, the current experience shows that this answer [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It can't be accepted. [[János Lázár: I am sad! It's a rare applause in the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-04-80	Thank you very much. Congresswoman! I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Representatives of Bernadett Bakos and Máté Kanász-Nagy, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry. I give the floor to Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the last few days, the news has come that MOL limits the amount of petrol that can be purchased at its gas stations in 50 liters, and that is still the better situation, even at smaller wells, it is not often possible to obtain petrol. We all know that the biggest traffic in the petrol market is in July, because everyone is going on holiday at the same time and the harvest is also taking place. The state-owned MOL is clearly preparing for a shortage of fuel in Hungary, since why else would restrictions have been introduced. Last week, on a commercial radio, a representative of a car organization called on motorists to save on petrol and to start using public transport if they could, because the petrol supply has become critical. It would be time for the government to look at the solutions of the future. LMP has been demanding for weeks that the government introduce a temporary climate lease, a national monthly lease for all means of transport that can be purchased for a uniform amount of HUF 5 thousand. There are only advantages to this. On the one hand, it is finally a real help to those who do not have a car, so the gas stop doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, it leads people towards sustainable transport, because it is quite clear that the age of cheap petrol is over, and in the longer term, those countries where public transport is used will be competitive. Last but not least, on the basis of the introduction, climate leases would make a significant contribution to avoiding fuel shortages in Hungary in the coming weeks. In Germany, it was introduced a month and a half ago, and LMP has been demanding its introduction at home for weeks. Dark clouds are gathering, yet our ever strong and fast government has now come to the point of exploring and thinking about its potential. [[15.30]] Interestingly, when green steps need to be taken, there will always be some strange thoughtfulness and slowness in the government. I'd like to ask the government's representative how much longer they're gonna take to introduce a climate lease. Do you want to wait for more people to drive because of the fuel they're selling? But, you know, we know how this ends: there's gonna be no gas. Or are they finally willing to take action after all the thinking? Are you actually planning to introduce a climate lease, or are you just trying to trick people into doing that? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's not the first time I've had the opportunity to talk to you and your faction on this subject here in Parliament, it happened last week and the week before that. Somehow you feel that you have changed your lease on this subject here in this House. Since we have talked about it many times over the past period and there has been no new information on the part of the government that I can add to this subject, I ask for your understanding if there will be any part of my answer that I have already told you about. The main common aspect of Hungary's transport and environmental policy is the development and promotion of public transport, and the exchange of local and inter-local bus parks has begun within the framework of the Green Bus programme. The mass appearance of clean and quiet electric vehicles reduces air and noise pollution and raises service standards. Greening transport is the climate and nature conservation action plan, which has also been discussed here several times and is an essential condition for carbon neutrality in 2050. The Ministry of Technology and Industry is constantly examining international examples, as I have already said, and, of course, we are ready to examine the transposition of the benefits that have already been proven elsewhere, the possibility of introducing them in accordance with domestic conditions. This is the case for air conditioning. As I have already indicated to you, we have started to examine this construction and the example in Germany much sooner than we would have done here in Parliament, but I have also pointed out earlier that the situation in Hungary and Germany is significantly different: in Germany there is neither a reduction nor a fuel stop than in Hungary, so German citizens must pay significantly higher energy prices than Hungarians. After extending the 480 HUF petrol stop here until October 1st, there is enough time to examine this German example thoroughly, and to collect the experience I also highlighted this last time. In 2019, the left was able to win in many places, it was given the opportunity to manage the municipalities, and in these cities, at any time, new transport ticket and rental constructions can be introduced in their respective jurisdictions. Of course, if this would result in a price increase similar to the introduction of the single parking in Budapest last week, then we do not recommend it to the majority of left-wing municipalities. The infrastructure, vehicle and service developments carried out since 2010 provide a solid basis for a more dynamic modernisation of Community transport, improving both urban and rural quality of life. Good news, what happened last week, was that we won HUF 1.1 billion by way of tenders for the development of Western Railway Station in the competition between the 27 Member States of the European Union. The government's strong and high priority is to ensure and continuously develop high-quality public transport services in the Community. Our aim is to provide road users with a flexible, competitive, clean and quiet range of services. I would like to ask the Member to support our ideas on transport and community transport. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-84	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2022-07-04-85	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you very much for your answer. Indeed, this is what I am saying, that I have almost changed seats here in Parliament on this subject, and I would like to use this lease until the Hungarian people are able to use the climate lease, which I think would be a huge need for the development of public transport. The Secretary of State mentioned certain increases in fees or rent increases here. The point of the air-conditioning lease is that it will result in a significant cost reduction for Hungarian people, Hungarian families, because according to our proposal it would be possible to use the different flights of BKV, MÁV and Volán for 5 thousand forints. He also mentioned the difference between the two countries, and I clearly see this difference: in Germany, transport and sustainable green solutions are supported, and in Hungary, the Hungarian government supports car transport and petrol, which is obviously a fundamental difference. However, I am confident that this climate lease will be introduced, but until this happens, unfortunately, I cannot accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-04-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear House, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. It is for Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In recent days, our retired compatriots, our senior compatriots, will receive the pension increase retroactively. This is 3.9 percent, and this 3.9 percent will be calculated for eight months, since from January to June they will receive the increase for six months, and their monthly pension for July will be increased by 3.9 percent, and we will calculate 3.9 percent for the 13th month pension already received. For whom the postman carries the pension, the postman will only ring once, and they will receive this amount in the same amount, who has a bank account, will receive this reference on 12 July. Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government and the Fidesz-KDNP coalition undertook to preserve the value of pensions in 2010. We have kept this commitment, and what is more, in recent years we have managed to increase the value of pensions for pensioners and young people, because we have not only adjusted pensions as inflation increases, but also have also given pensioners a premium. In addition, they are equally affected by the Ressistop, as are the economic protection measures that affect other Hungarian families. The pensioners were therefore not only granted a pension increase, but we also agreed that if the economy is good, the economy is successful, the economy is growing, pensioners should also benefit from it. This is thanks to the Hungarian families, on whom we have achieved the growth of the Hungarian economy. We also agreed to protect them in a difficult situation. This protection is what I have now described here at the beginning of my speech, so that inflation does not weaken their pensions but receives these corrections. Dear Secretary of State, We are taking these measures in a situation where there is war inflation in Europe, so our very important question to the government is that the policy for the protection of pensioners and pensions can be maintained in such an economic and such a security situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, it is as he said in his interpellation: this is a process that started in 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP won the election by two thirds. Then we promised not only that we had promised, but that we had also made an agreement with pensioners in essence, that every year that follows, as long as we are in government, we would preserve the value of pensions. [[15.40]] It's easy to say, but it's not easy to do. If we look back now at the times before 2010, the then MSZP-SZDSZ government has not been able to do so in any year. Yeah, they didn't promise. The Fidesz government, on the other hand, also in difficult times, because let us admit that after 2010, when the economy was not yet on a growing path, it was not easy to raise the source of maintaining the purchasing value of pensions. And now it's a time like this again when there's war inflation when a war economic crisis is beginning to develop. Nevertheless, Fidesz will comply with the agreement in the last 12 years and even in the 13th year, in 2023, with the aim of preserving the value of the buyer. Since 2010, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 percent, and if the 13th month pension is taken into account, this figure has increased by 20 percent and nominally by 59.3%. But the Fidesz government has not only given pension increases to pensioners, in the last five years there have been a total of HUF 900 billion in other benefits. These were also the Elisabeth's voucher, the pension certificate, the pension premium and the 13th month's pension. So, when the economy performs well, pensioners, in addition to receiving a pension increase equal to inflation each year, even received a special allowance, which, as I said, has been worth HUF 900 billion in the last five years. But the increase in pensions will continue this year, as from 1 January, the pensioners received a 5 per cent increase in the budget of.22, and, as you said, they will receive the 8 times 3.9 per cent pension increase in the next few days. This is 31.2 percent, so one-third of pensioners get their pensions, and every month the extra 3.9 percent increase is built in. That's 8.9 percent. This is not required by any law, the government decided in April that this should be implemented. However, this is not the end, since the law requires that the rate of inflation be re-examined in September and compared and analysed with the amount of the pension increase. If inflation is higher or is expected to be higher than the rate of pension increase, pensioners will receive a new addition in November. The Fidesz government will continue to meet its commitment to pensioners this year, as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-91	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The answer is accepted. The answer was clear: yes, the government fulfils the commitments we made to pensioners; whether Covid or war inflation or energy crisis, pensioners can count on us in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It's been a long month since summer came. Schools were held in the middle of June, and the expected holiday for students began. We know that summer break does not mean exclusive rest for all students, as for many years there has been a tendency for more and more young people to work at this time, taking advantage of the non-teaching period. Nor is it a coincidence that the summer holiday itself should exist in this respect, since the concept of a holiday separating more precisely academic years was introduced by Maria Theresa at the time. Joseph reformed it by ordering a so-called early summer break. The most powerful reason for his action was probably the fact that children had to work in the fields during the harvest, as they were of great help to their parents and family during agricultural work. Today, the summer school break gives young people the opportunity to taste the world of work, to learn about self-receiving, which, through the experience gained, can be of particular importance in their career choices and further studies. But the burden relief of parents is also an important aspect when young people try to raise the costs of their own summer entertainment or later studies. However, many young people not only use the opportunity to earn their own money in the rest of the year during holidays, but also during other periods of the year. Some are motivated primarily by material independence, while others are motivated by the rapid acquisition of work experience, but the government's measure to exempt workers under the age of 25 from the payment of personal income tax was also a clear positive change and further incentive. In my view, the seasonal employment of young people is also significantly facilitated by the summer student work programme, which has been running since 2013, which primarily provides wage support for the employment of high school students and university students. It also offers temporary accommodation in municipalities, churches, agriculture and tourism catering. In the latter two areas, i.e. in sectors affected by seasonal work, wage support was of particular importance, since it also indirectly helped domestic businesses during the coronal virus epidemic. Dear Secretary of State, In our view, the first work experience in a young person's life is particularly important, what experiences, what impression it has on the world of work, as this routine is also an important milestone in active adult life, which is ultimately also in the interest of society. It is therefore of particular importance that the state supports the seasonal employment of young people with various programmes, with a positive definition of public burdens. I therefore ask with respect the Secretary of State how the government encourages the seasonal work of students and how the summer student work programme helps young people this year. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The word "vacation" means an exemption, absence and emptiness of Latin origin. So, in the original sense of vacation, it is when we are lacking, when we miss school, when we suddenly find ourselves in emptiness. Today, however, the word "holiday" means much more for students to enjoy well-deserved recreation by relaxing the fatigues of the academic year. In addition to the well - deserved rest, however, young people are increasingly receptive to spending their free time usefully, taking burdens off their parents' shoulders, and tasting the working world. The government knows how important it is to get to know the world of work, to get an early work experience, so this year the central labour market programme called "Summer Student Work" was launched again. In the summer work programme running since 2013, the government has supported more than 242 thousand students and students in the previous years, with a total of HUF 24 billion. Since mid-June, young people have been allowed to register for this year's launch. At the end of the previous month, the interest increased significantly, with around two thousand registered daily in the last week. The programme is open to students between 16 and 25 years of age, who are in full-time, who are not in employment, who have no business rights. Local governments and enterprises operating in agriculture, tourism and catering may request support for their employment. For a maximum period of two months, local authorities shall be reimbursed in full for the salary paid for up to 6 hours of employment per day. Three-quarters of the salary for 8 hours a day is transferred to companies. The programme is based on two pillars. Its first pillar is municipal student work, where it can be a basic institution of the local, municipal and municipal authorities providing employment, as well as a legal person of the church. Thanks to the second pillar, the programme also offers seasonal employment for students in agriculture, tourism and catering. [[15.50]] Nearly 3,000 employers have so far claimed the employment of about 14,000 university students in high school vacations in the wage support programme. On the basis of the 2,000 contracts concluded so far, more than 8,000 students or students could have been employed from the beginning of July. With their money earned in the programme until the end of August, thanks to their introduction this year, they can retain more than ever under 25 years of age. Most employers' applications came from Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, which is a special joy for me, but more than a thousand young people would be hired for summer work in Baranya, Békés, Csongrád-Csanád and Hajdú-Bihar. Four out of five applications concern municipal employment. The vast majority of the participating companies are looking for smiling supporters for tourism catering in order to serve the traffic that has jumped during the summer season. The district offices are constantly transmitting students to jobs and providing wage support to employers. The good news is that in view of the mass interest, this year's HUF 2 billion budget will be increased by almost one-and-a-half times, and the Ministry of Technology and Industry will push it by another HUF 1 billion. I wish the student workers a very good summer and good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-96	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I also accept the answer because from my own experience, I know what it's like to work as a high school student or a college student this summer. Experience, work experience, acquaintances that I think are very important and contribute to the process of growing up. I am particularly proud of the fact that the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary majority has provided young people under the age of 25 with a sjai exemption, which also applies to student work, so that these young people no longer have to pay personal income tax. And I would like to draw the attention of every student worker to a good choice of where they work as students so they don't run into Csaba Czegledy's companies. In addition, we wish everyone a good summer and good, meaningful work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Lot. Ms Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that by replying to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is competent and competent according to the subject, to whom Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer you. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Let me start with a rhetorical question: do you think food is not expensive enough? Do you think we're paying too little at the grocery store? Do you think it's too cheap to buy a family grocery today? You know very well why I'm asking you this. In addition to 25 percent food inflation and endless price increases, you have drawn a rather unexpected one: the food tax has been introduced. The new tax increase in the brutal Orbán austerity package, the food tax, also makes cereal, cereal flakes, fruit pulps popular among families with small children and certain stuffed pastas directly more expensive. One really feels that, for some reason, you would like to make everything more expensive and poorer because of food price increases. There is simply no other sane explanation for the fact that, in addition to such brutal food prices, you are imposing a food tax on families. We remember Martin the Great's statement that, I quote, the people, households, had a lot of money left, savings accumulated. This is literally what was said at the press conference that announced the various extra-profit donors. With the food tax, the Freudian comment has now been confirmed: you are really looking for family money, the savings of families are called extra profit. This is an insufferable attack on people and families, according to the Democratic Coalition! It is not enough that weak forints and inflation in Orbán are causing food prices to break loose. It is not enough that 500 forints is a kilo of potatoes, 600 forints is a kilo of bread, and dairy products have also increased by 30 percent. Thanks to you and your food tax, typical breakfast products, cereal and cereal products will be more expensive. This is unacceptable to us, unacceptable, both humanly and politically, virtually everything. We don't tax our daily bread, especially when it's priceless anyway. In this situation, the Democratic Coalition believes that it is not necessary to squeeze, but to support families. It should not be a food tax, but a zero-percent VAT on basic foods, as we have already suggested to you. It should not be a tribute to Hungarians, but help them to cope with the crisis, the real crisis, to be precise, what you have caused. Instead, you are pouring oil on the fire and further raising food prices with the food tax. So I ask the Secretary of State: do you think that food is not expensive enough? Do you think we're paying too little at the grocery store? Do you think it's too cheap to buy a family grocery today? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of DK, MSZP, Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2022-07-04-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Deputy Minister András Tállai, Secretary of State, will answer you. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's kind of special that you, as a representative of DK, are calling to account for the fact that the current government is smearing people. It doesn't take too long to think back: the real austerity, the taking of people's money was in your time in 2008-2009, when you were in a difficult situation, a crisis to keep the country from collapsing, you answered that you had to take money from people and raise your taxes. It's not like that here. Of course, the so-called food tax mentioned by you does not exist in the Hungarian tax system, the name of which is a public health product tax, was introduced in September 2011, and contrary to what you suggest, it is not a food tax, and the payment obligation is not linked to the consumption of basic foods, but the individual and please listen! related to the production of products with a health risk, typically consumed as recreational articles. Thus, the tax was introduced because of the lack of health-damaging food, which has otherwise achieved its objective, since the consumption of high sugar and salt products has been reduced following the introduction of the tax, which is recognised by the WHO, and, moreover, more and more countries are introducing this tax, which we have already done in Hungary in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are talking about inflation, talking about inflation as if it were a Hungarian problem. I understand that you say this in the Hungarian Parliament, but you must be monitoring the events in Europe that are taking place in the world. The rate of inflation in Hungary is not among the highest, it is also in the middle field in comparison with the European Union. In several countries, which are closer to war, there is a higher rate of inflation. This inflation, a significant part of it, is due to war, and it will decrease and return to normal once the war is over. That is why I ask you not to argue for the war, and not for how to bring Hungary into the war, because then inflation will be even higher, and people will find it even harder to live. By the way, what the government knows has done against inflation, as the introduction of pricestops, food stops, fuel stops have significantly reduced inflation rates. And what you're saying about VAT is that there should be a zero-percent warning that you would have had the opportunity to submit an amending proposal to the budget. They didn't submit such a proposal. In fact, there was no proposal to reduce the net as a tax or simply abolish it. [[16.00]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the VAT reduction does not automatically reduce the price, because it was precisely in your time that a commando was allowed for entrepreneurs and that it was not possible to introduce the price reduction effect of the VAT reduction. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-04-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now I'm gonna ask Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course I won't accept it. You know, Mr. Secretary, the only correct answer would have been to see their mistake and take action on this case. You said that this tax is a tax on products that represent health risks and pleasure products. I think that every family with small children or family with small children knows precisely that cereal, cereal, and fruit pulp are not included in this category. I think that if you consider this to be a risk to health, you might be able to consult the Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, who is also responsible for health care, on this issue. I am very sorry if a secretary of state is unable to pay attention to what is written on the one hand in writing... [[It's constant noise.]] Mr. President, may I ask you to keep your voice down? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. So, it's very unfortunate when a secretary of state is unable to read the text of the interpellation submitted, or is unable to answer it in the way it would otherwise fit the interviewer. I was talking about 30% food inflation, and feel free to tell me, Mr Secretary, about these matters for those who go to shops every day and are forced to buy. Like I said, I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-04-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on our sitting today. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the ballot counting machine, because we are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. We're conducting a presence check. I would like to ask my fellow Members that the possibility of a technical vote has not yet been shown to press the button when I say so, because this is not good yet. [[A moment's pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of my technicians, I need a presence check. Only the sign appears to be presence check, but that's not what I'm curious about, but when you can press a push button. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Let's go through it by name. Defiance.]] Now I ask my fellow Members to press one of the buttons. [[Attendance check.]] Thank you very much. I declare that 179 Members are present, 20 are absent, the Parliament is ready to take a decision. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the aforementioned interpellations. Congressman Ferenc Dávid, representative of DK, I/426. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 133 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Mr János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, I/358. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 134 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum, I/433. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 134 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Imre Komjathi, representative of the MSZP, I/299. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 134 votes in favour, 48 votes against and 3 abstentions. Member István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, is I/423. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's response to the interpellation by 154 votes in favour [[Result appearing on the table: 134 votes in favour.]] 29 votes against, with 20 abstentions accepted. Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, I/428. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 134 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of LMP, I/429. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 131 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Lot. Congresswoman Elisabeth of Germany, representative of DK, I/425. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 135 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. My colleagues indicate that when I said the result of Mr Szabadi István, I said 154 instead of 134. So I repeat the result: with 134 votes in favour, the other local values the Parliament accepted the interpellation. Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/480 put forward by the President. We have all been able to find out about this on the House's website. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szigély to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[16.10]]
u2022-07-04-105	, 1. 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament [[V. 2.]] Mr Csöbör, Katalin, Fidesz, instead of Illés Boglárkat, Fidesz, to the Committee of Culture Zsolt Gréczy, Olga Kálmán, DK, instead of Kálmán, to the Committee of European Affairs; instead of Katalin Csöbör, Fidesz, Gábor Riz, Fidesz, instead of Dr. Attila Tilki, Fidesz, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs Kálmán Olga, DK, instead of Andrea Hegedüs, DK, to the Committee. 2. Point 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: the National Assembly to the Legislative Committee Andrea Hegedüs, DK, instead of Gy. Erzsébet Németh, DK, Olga Kálmán, DK, elect Zsolt Gréczy, DK, as a member of the committee instead. 3. Point 4 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: the National Assembly elects Kálmán Olga, DK; Kálmán Olga, DK, instead of Hegedüs Andrea, DK, Vice-President of the Committee. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
u2022-07-04-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, on the basis of points 1, 2 and 4 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the members of the committee, and then on the basis of point 3 of the proposal, we decide on Commission officials from among the members of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/480. The Committee shall elect the members of the Committees in accordance with the proposal No 1, 2 and 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected the members of the committees with 186 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/480. Point 3 of the Committee's proposal states that Olga Kálmán will be elected Vice-President of the Committee on Culture from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Olga Kálmán to the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture with 185 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/480. According to point 3 of the proposal No.3, Andrea Hegedüs is elected Vice-President of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly elected Andrea Hegedüs to the Vice-President of the Committee on immunity with 184 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now time to elect the President of the State Audit Office by secret ballot. Allow me to extend a special welcome to the candidate, Dr. László Windisch, as well as to his family members, to all the permanent guests of the Parliament, and to all those attending our meeting today. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. László Windisch stands up and bows to thank you for your applause.]] I would like to inform you that the Case Committee on the President of the State Court of Auditors is S/435. LXVI of 2011 on the State Audit Office. Law 9. Acting under Article 1 (1) of the Act, Dr. László Windisch proposes to elect the President of the State Audit Office. Dear Parliament, The Economic Committee has listened to the candidate and supported his election. The Committee's opinion and the candidate's CV were all available on the House's website. The National Assembly elects the President of the State Audit Office with two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament for 12 years on the basis of the proposal submitted by the Speaker of Parliament, with effect from 6 July 2022. Under the parliamentary law, the vote is classified. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the inaugural assembly of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union will take place here in the Chamber immediately after a 30-minute break. The beginning of the assembly will be marked by the meeting room bell for you and all of us. Dear Parliament, The secret ballot process is as follows: Members can take the ballots in the Danube corridor of the House of Parliament's Lower House meeting room, from a group corresponding to the initials of their names, in alphabetical order, in four groups. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a piece of ballot paper and a piece of envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I would also like to inform you that the voting booth may be used throughout the voting period. I ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in one of the boxes "yes", "no" and "no" respectively. Now I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to briefly explain the voting rules, and my fellow Members, with respect, to listen to them sitting in their seats. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-107	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. The valid vote shall be deemed only to be what was cast on the candidate on the ballot-paper, with two incandescent lines placed in squares next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote not cast on the official ballot paper is null; the one missing the stamp; and if the voter takes over the ballot paper, but does not throw it into the ballot box. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will include it and replace it with a new card.
u2022-07-04-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members or members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the corridor of the Lower House Chamber. I announce that 30 minutes are available to cast the votes, so since it is now 16 hours 17 minutes, it will be possible for 16 hours 47 minutes. Immediately thereafter, the inaugural assembly of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union will take place here in the Chamber. The outcome of the secret vote is expected to be presented at 5:08 p.m. I'm ordering the secret vote. (Sunning: 16-18 17.10) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-07-04-109	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the attention of my fellow Members to continue our work. Please take your seats. Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He found that 170 Members participated in the secret ballot. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidate. On the person of Dr. László Windisch, 170 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes 11 and the number of valid votes 159. Of this, the number of votes in favour was 136, the number of votes in favour was 23 and there was no vote in favour. On this basis, the National Assembly elected Dr. László Windisch as President of the State Audit Office. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, The President of the State Audit Office is now under oath and the oaths are signed. I ask Dr. László Windisch to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read out the vows, and I would ask those present to listen to the oath as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. László Windisch steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2022-07-04-110	I, László Windisch, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as President of the State Audit Office for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-111	Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Vinnai Győző to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I would ask the President-elect of the State Audit Office to sign them. [[It's happening. Dr. Győző Vinnai, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. László Windisch and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. László Windisch on his election. I wish you a successful job and good luck. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. For Dr. László Windisch, first László Kövér, then Viktor Orbán, dr. Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis, dr. János Latorcai, dr. Zita Gurmai, Gergely Gulyás, Antal Csárdi, dr. Árpád Kovács, dr. Ákos Kozma, dr. Csaba Kandracs, Imre Ritter and László Toroczkai congratulated him.]] Thank you. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the hour of immediate questions and answers. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber, to do so quietly, if possible. [[Some of the representatives leave the meeting room. It's a short break.]] (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) After our fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber because of an urgent public mission have left quietly, we will continue our work. Please take your seats. Dear Parliament, Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Economic Development an immediate question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-112	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, They used to say that inflation is a tax on the poor, and if that is the case, then you are now taxing the poorest. Inflation has already exceeded 10% of certain foods, such as 40 percent of white bread. Special donors of the Orbán package continue to increase the cost of medicines, increase the cost of insurance and banking services, and often even a traditional Sunday lunch is a luxury for a Hungarian family, as the price of meat, flour, eggs, food oil and sugar is increasing. There is therefore not a war emergency in Hungary today, but an inflationary emergency, which is not triggered by war, but by the government and the Hungarian National Bank together. The MNB forced the economy to grow even faster while not paying attention to price stability. Last year, as before last year, the government brought together five or six times the usual deficit under economic protection, but the most deprived of this money did not see a penny of it, as they went to your oligarchs, cross-border interests, competition sports and churches. You have distributed 2600 billion forints to young people and pensioners at the beginning of the year, but this money will now be taken back by record inflation with interest. By the way, this money wasn't given to the most needy because you were acting on a sort of Christish order, it was an election campaign. The weakening of the forint, which also fuels inflation, again cannot be blamed on the war, as we see that while the forint has weakened more than 10 percent compared to the euro, the currencies of the region, including the Czech, Croatian, Bulgarian and Romanian currencies, have not broken down half of the euro. Mr. Secretary. In János Kornai's passionate pamphlet in 1989, he said that inflation would take place as long as the Minister of Finance wanted it to be, and it would stop when the Minister of Finance wanted it not to be. I'm asking why you want such inflation. Thank you very much for your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[17.20]]
u2022-07-04-113	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-04-114	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You're replacing the cause and the effect. You're listing the result, and you're not telling me the reason. The Cause Is Basically War [[There's grumble and clarity in DK's ranks.]] which has brought economic crisis, war inflation and price rises, and, moreover, uncertainty across Europe. The government's primary objective is to address a target system that preserves the value of pensions, guarantees family support, retains the results of the reduction of the rent and jobs that are essential for all of us. Economic policy must be such that they are not damaged. What you have listed is one of the effects, the basic cause of inflation is war and not least the result of Brussels policy. Together with that, and now it is accepted by literature or the profession that I believe that inflation is not the greatest threat in Hungary, but the recession. The two must be managed in the right order, inflation within the limits of the bearability; this is served by the price stop measures that we consider to be necessary, which we consider to be bad, except, of course, the reduction in overhead costs, which is a long-term policy. And we consider all measures necessary to avoid and mitigate the threat of a recession that is realistic throughout the world, in Europe and in Hungary. This is what the government's government measures, which you call inflation policy, want to serve. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2022-07-04-115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2022-07-04-116	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, You didn't answer me, so instead of you, I'll do it myself. Why is there record high inflation in Hungary today? On the one hand, because of the high public debt, because you owed the Hungarians a foreign currency loan. [[Bence Rétvári: That was you!]] On the other hand, because of your forint-weaking, multi-friendly economic policy, [[Bence Rétvári: That was you too!]] It is obviously much easier for multinational companies to pay their own employees in weak forints. Thirdly, because of government corruption leading to the suspension of EU funds, this should be stopped in the first place. At the same time, I am very pleased that you have admitted that there is a recession, and you have said that the price cap regulation is wrong, and your minister has said the same thing, and I quote: you have to come out of the price stops. If that's the case, Mr. Secretary of State, then you lied twice, lied in the election campaign when you said there would be no restrictions, and you're lying now when you try to pin record inflation on the war. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-117	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-118	Thank you very much. Congressman, so far, only my wife has tried to answer my questions for me. [[Defiance in the ranks of the governing parties, the LMP and the MSZP.]] I'm honored. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] However, if you'll allow me, I'll say it repeatedly and slowly: we're living in war, we're in a war recession. [[Balázs Barkóczi: Fidesz mantra!]] Unfortunately, it's not up to you or me to believe it or not. Look at the television news, that's what you can see. This is the result. The recession isn't here right now, it's a danger, and we're trying not to have it here. And I would very much ask that you do not create the appearance of this, and do not promote the recession which creates a situation which is extremely detrimental to Hungarian society, because it brings about unemployment, which is common in your time, but which is not in ours, which threatens to reduce the costs, endangers the security of pensions. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] security and support for families should not be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-119	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister cannot answer personally because he is absent at the moment, so Balázs Orbán has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-07-04-120	With all due respect, we'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2022-07-04-121	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, András Fekete-Győr and Ferenc Gelencsér, representatives of Momentum [[Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President!]] [[Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President!]] to ask an immediate question (Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President!) Mr. Prime Minister, how did we get here? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel points to you.]] Excuse me. Dear Parliament, Yes, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Economic Development an immediate question:. Will the government support the future start-up and housing of Hungarian children? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Fónagy gave the right to reply. I ask you to accept the person who answered. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel nodds.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-122	Mr President, Dear House, The Faramuc situation is that a housing program can be called into account at three ministries in this case, but obviously the designated response will be able to clean up the jungle that lies before us. We are faced with the fact that a Hungarian youth can often find himself in an impossible situation if he reaches age and, unfortunately, in most cases, they cannot support his life properly. In Hungary there is a sore shortage of apartments, rentals, as well as new builders, and we also see in the survey on the housing market that, in addition to less than 20,000 new build apartments, the price of a small number of rentals has increased from 130 thousand to 175 thousand forints on average in one year in Budapest. If we compare this with the net minimum wage of 133,000, we see that a young person starting his life is in a very, very difficult situation. For this reason Jobbik urges us to set up a so-called future fund, an account that can place half a million forints in an account for all Hungarian children from budgetary sources, which, in a way similar to baby bonds, is very flexible until the age of the child. And we also need to see that we do not want to see a greater weight of cash going unconditionally to a young person who has reached his age, because we have seen negative experiences in this regard. We would like this increased amount to be spent for housing purposes and for education purposes only by electronic means. I have analysed some indicators of the housing crisis. With regard to education, we would all very much like to see that the first degree is available free of charge, but we see that unfortunately it is not yet reflected in the reality, and we would like to see the young Hungarians who start their lives as much as possible in order to be able to prosper in their homeland in order to meet their family-bearing goals as soon as possible. That is why the question arises as to the government's opening up to the priority support for the beginning of life.
u2022-07-04-123	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-04-124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I believe that we share the same view in terms of objectives, and you are not making proposals in this area for the first time. The fundamental difference between the two of us is that you have these goals, as you have just mentioned, rentals, so rented apartments [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Not just!]] it seeks to ensure its construction and service, and we regard property as the basis for home creation in the first place. By the way, I believe that the government's goal, which you do not dispute, is to get everyone home, and we are trying, in my opinion, to ensure the start of young people's lives in Europe with an unprecedented aid mix. We introduced the tax relief of first-wives; from 22 to 22 the young people work tax-free, we do not have to pay personal income tax; we introduced the CSOK, the family home creation and the village CSOK; we introduced your diplomat, which is from 18 to the child's age; the baby shower loan, which can amount to an interest-free loan of up to HUF 10 million; from 18 we introduced family support allowances. [[17 .30]] I have to deal with the pleasant problem that two minutes is simply not enough to list all the government's measures to help young people start their lives. So I am convinced that our goals are the same, that there is a difference between us in the technical solution leading to it. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-125	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-126	Mr President, Dear House, Our future concept does not apply only to rentals. If you are lucky enough to be able to buy a newly built apartment, let us also support this half a million forints placed, say, for 18 years. The problem, Mr. Secretary, is that this is not the typical Hungarian life situation. Hundreds of thousands of people are thus left out of your design without a financial background, even for the own part of a housing loan, but in an affordable apartment, they could start their family life, have children, and complete their plans for all futures. Therefore, our concept does not ask much, it asks for one tenth of the extra tax collected next year for the Hungarian future, not only for apartments and condos, but also basically for the promotion of rentals and rentals, with the financing of educational costs. The question is that all of this is worth not more than 10 percent of the added tax collected by the Government of Hungary. This is the real dividing line for the future.
u2022-07-04-127	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-04-128	Honourable Congressman, I very much hope that we share the same view that it is easier to plan the future in Hungary today than it was 12-15 or 20 years ago. There are a number of measures, opportunities for young people, which provide them with an opportunity in the existential sphere that you have targeted with your proposal. Allow me to tell you my personal experience, my experience decades ago. Even then, so-called nest apartments were built, they tried to provide young people with a flat starting for a year or two or three free of charge. I have to say that overall the action was not successful, the Hungarian society basically regards property as a home, and not such transitional measures. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-07-04-129	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Fekete-Győr and Ferenc Gelencsér, the representatives of Momentum, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How did we get here? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2022-07-04-130	Thank you. We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2022-07-04-131	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Dávid Bedő, representative of Momentum, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question:. When will there be quality rail transport in Hungary? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr.Zsófia Koncz has authorised the Secretary of State to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2022-07-04-132	I'll take it.
u2022-07-04-133	Yes, the floor is yours.
u2022-07-04-134	Thank you for the floor. It is well-known that the five major enemies of the MÁV are the four seasons and passengers. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] In the last few weeks, we have had countless stories that the MÁV is unable to install as many cars on its flights as necessary. Some people changed seats, but they couldn't find the car they were talking to because it didn't exist. Others were a little better off: they were able to get on the train, but in the 35 - degree heat the climate did not work. This was also the case for passengers who were left in the car a few days ago, left in the burning sun, and eventually had to break the window so that they wouldn't drown, and then I hadn't even talked about the constant delays. MÁV's employees have confirmed from several sources that the lack of a car is such that they have to choose every day to send a sufficient or sufficient quality passenger car to Lake Balaton or Szeged, Debrecen or Vienna. In Hungary, it has been a long time to take a gambling train, but unlike casinos, you are not pouring money into the MÁV, but are constantly pulling it away. Let's say the truth: Hungarian rail transport is ending, there is no money for maintenance, no money for maintenance of railway wagons, and no money for new cars. There is a real danger that some of the Hungarian rail transport simply stops overnight. New railway wagons are urgently needed, as 500 out of 1600 passenger cars are currently out of operation due to maintenance problems. One third of the Hungarian railway wagons are inoperative, Madam Secretary of State. However, the condition of the certified passenger cars is so intolerable that the Austrian, German, Swiss and even Czech railway companies have already made an official complaint to the Hungarian railway company. There is no word in the budget for next year of the extra financial support of the MÁV, and you may have already given up EU funds. However, the Hungarian people need a well-functioning railway, so I ask you to give a clear answer on how they will fix the broken down [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungarian railway cars, from which they will get new cars, when they will be [[The president's ringing again.]] quality rail transport in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-04-135	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government considers the continued expansion of the transport network to be a priority, and in these cases an immediate investigation was initiated by the Technological and Industrial Safety Organisation and the MÁV, after passengers were stranded at the Eastern Railway Station last Thursday evening in a defective, airless car. A detailed investigation of the case has been initiated immediately, and of course we will also provide information on its results. From the budget of 2023, the development of the transport sector was provided with a surplus of more than HUF 168 billion, a significant part of which is aimed at the development of the rail sector. In the next year's budget, we will spend more on wages, also encouraging rail career voters. We will not ignore the costs of increasing energy and fuel prices, so we will spend more than HUF 8 billion in the budget. In addition, our plans include a number of track renovations and rail infrastructure development. By the way, over the last decade we have modernised 600 kilometers of railway track, nearly 350 kilometers of electrification, and we have also renovated bridges, stations and stops, and we would like to continue these developments in the future. The current news is that the development of the Szeged-Röszke-Szabadka railway line is continuing and freight train traffic starts in this section as of 1 August, thus ensuring the proper detour during the time of the track lock required for the modernisation of the Budapest-Kelebia line. The budget has already been mentioned here: HUF 93 billion in 2018, HUF 130 billion in 2022 and HUF 23 in 2018 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] HUF 181 billion will be spent on domestic railway infrastructure [[The president's ringing again.]] Therefore, these developments are constantly increased year after year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-137	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go. One minute.
u2022-07-04-138	Thank you very much. Like before, I don't want to take credit from the government. There is no doubt that suburban rail transport has developed a great deal over the past 12 years, but the fact is that suburban rail transport accounts for roughly half of the total number of passengers. In total, long-distance and regional rail transport carries 35 million passengers per year, so many people are affected by broken-down wagons and continuous delays. The average age of cars at these stages is nearly 45 years in Hungary today 45 years. Some cars have been in service since 1962. How come I drove the same car to Miskolc 20 years ago to see my grandmother like I did yesterday at Lake Balaton? That's the answer to that. We need immediate measures, we need more resources for the Hungarian railway to buy cars, we need more resources to repair and develop main lines and sidelines. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-04-139	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-140	Firstly, I would like to thank the Member for his positive contribution on suburban transport. In order to ensure a high quality service for passengers, the strategic goal is to achieve an attractive, modern, accessible fleet of vehicles, and we strive to reduce the average age of these railway vehicles to less than 25 years. As I have talked about several times over the past months, we have consulted Volánbusz and MÁV, and we are trying to ensure more and more public transport solutions in addition to a better approach to Lake Balaton. We still have a lot of work to do in rail development, making it more livable, and we know that, and we are working with my colleagues to get these improvements done as soon as possible. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.40]]
u2022-07-04-141	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question on the subject of the current issues. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Fürjes granted the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-04-142	Thank you very much. Dear House, On 31 July there will be a local referendum in Tata, because a large part of the inhabitants of Tata, unlike the Fidesz mayor and the Fidesz majority municipal body, do not want Avalon to ruin the image of the shore of the Lake Tata with a Gigahotel investment and destroy the many aspects of the protected coastline. The case has been going on for years, but it can be seen that the reputation of the hotel construction plan has led to strong local civil opposition. In fact, my fellow Member, János Bencsik, who is a member of the Fidesz-KDNP Parliament in the constituency including the city of Tata, also rejects the big investment. Several of his speeches, including his Facebook post on May 20, are testimony to this, and I quote:. The Gigahotel cannot continue to be built on the shores of the Old Lake of Tata. The comments below the entry show that the rejection of the investment is clear among its own followers, its own supporters. So there is an investment that is indefensible in many ways, a large proportion of the local residents and the parliamentary representative of the constituency protest against it. The plan for such an investment should have been rejected a long time ago, but no, we are holding a local referendum on the matter, and on the initiative of the Stop Avalon Tata civil movement, the result of which will be an envelopable rejection of the construction, but the validity of the referendum is at least doubtful. The participation rate of the referendum for the summer holidays will be very difficult to reach the threshold of validity. What can we do? I think we need to set an example of the fact that the direct democratic expression of local residents is important and we take it seriously. Let that referendum be valid. János Bencsik and Fidesz should also openly and actively support the local referendum, actively campaign alongside it, so that the participation rate is adequate on 31 July. Together, let's make the local population that they don't want. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , there is no conflicting decision on the part of the local government. Therefore, I respectfully ask Minister [[To the President:]] Excuse me. Mr. and Secretary of State that the Fidesz Government intends to support the opinion of its own parliamentary representative and to campaign in favour of the referendum so that the participation is high and the local residents...
u2022-07-04-143	Congresswoman, two minutes, I'm sorry, I have to stop you.
u2022-07-04-144	... ina valid referendum with direct democratic rights. Thank you very much, my fellow Members and President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-07-04-145	I would like to inform my fellow Members that the answer is two minutes and then one minute. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, The congresswoman said that there would be a local referendum on Tata, and that the majority of local citizens would reject this construction, so as if the congresswoman already knew the result of the local referendum still to be held. We say that we are on the people's side, and in the event of a referendum, we leave the decision to the people and wait for them to decide. However, their word on this matter is sacred, even in the case of a referendum. So the best way to do this is to make the Tata citizen's decision on this investment as clear as possible. Of course, I can assure you that both the government and all authorities operating under government control will respect the decisions of all valid referendums, and so will this. I am happy to comply with your request, and I encourage all Tata citizens to exercise their suffrage, participate in the referendum and vote in accordance with their own opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-04-147	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Mr. Secretary of State has returned the time frame that has been used. Congresswoman, you have the floor in a one-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-148	Thank you, Mr. President, for the time. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Defiance.]] So I think this is a great time to show that we believe in democracy. And obviously, I was talking about encouraging voters to vote, and I asked for help in this with great respect, because unfortunately, the Fidesz city leadership was not a partner in this at all, because I don't think we should have had a referendum if we had talked about this 13 thousand signatures before, so the local residents have already made a strong statement that they thank you very much for not asking. So, if there was a real dialogue between the municipality and the residents, then this investment, as I indicated, would have been long since on the table. So I think we should rebuild trust between the people and the municipalities. If he's a partner in this, it's a good day. Thanks. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-07-04-149	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-150	Thank you very much. The citizens of Tata will pour clear water, wait for them and leave them the right to make a decision. I can repeat myself, of course this time we will respect, as always, the voter's decision, and I agree with the woman representing it, the more legitimate an election and a referendum are for every vote and election, the more people participate in it. I hope we encourage all Tata citizens to exercise the right to democratic decision-making. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-04-151	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, vice-president of the Parliament, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: 'Do you have the courage, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Balázs Orbán gave the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally?
u2022-07-04-152	Thank you for the opportunity, but I will wait for Prime Minister's personal answer.
u2022-07-04-153	I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "War at the Southern Border." Because of Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to answer. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since I have been a member of the Hungarian Parliament, I have tried to ring the alarm bell, and I have already announced here in May during my speech that there are war conditions in the Hungarian-Serbian border area, both on the Hungarian and on the Serbian side. Armed, mostly Afghan, Pakistani, Arab-based migrant gangs terrorize people on both sides of the border. I asked the government to take immediate action, and I specifically asked the Minister of Interior to contact his Serbian colleague, the Serbian Minister of the Interior, and to solve this problem, because sooner or later there will be blood, and sooner or later someone will die. This just happened. I have to say, fortunately, the war that broke out next to Subotica, in the Makkhetes forest, a few hundred meters from the border of Hungary is not a Hungarian victim, but an Afghan victim of this conflict. But it could have been prevented. I would like to point out that just ten minutes ago, I called the former deputy mayor of digthal to ask what's going on. Interestingly, the migrants have disappeared. This means that the Serbian police also started working on the Serbian side, I assume that the Hungarian police too. My specific question is that the Minister of Interior spoke to the Serbian Minister of Interior earlier, because it seems that for the time being the border-hunting force that Prime Minister has promised us here, and I very naively thought that this was the beginning of some sort of border guard, again, is a huge scam. For a gross salary of 260,000 forints, they're looking for armed security guards on the border. You don't really mean that, do you? This must be some kind of journalistic mistake, right? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2022-07-04-155	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Not only did you realise the danger of migration, but the entire Hungarian population, so in the national consultation and referendum, people decided clearly that the Hungarian government's task was to protect Hungary from illegal migration, and the government has done so since 2015 continuously. [[17.50]] You asked what kind of relationship there is between the Serbian and Hungarian governments. Just today, the two foreign ministers met in Subotica, and these issues were also on the agenda, because it is an important task for both countries to protect their own country from migration and for us to protect the European Union. It is indeed alarming for many to see a group of dozens of people using weapons, not far from the Hungarian border, in a way similar to a gang war, but that is precisely why the Hungarian fence is so that it does not happen on the northern side of the border. That is why we are protecting Hungary, and we have managed to protect Hungary from it. We have managed to protect Hungary from being like this in the suburbs in many Western European countries, and we have managed to protect with the fence that these people cannot get to Hungary, they are being stopped in bulk, more than 110,000 police officers have been there this year, and that is why they have not made it to the territory of Hungary. However, we have talked a lot about this here in Parliament, too, that in recent times, stones, weapons, brick fragments, axes, hammers, many things, they attacked each other or, if necessary, attacked the police, attacked the police cars. And the reason we set up these border hunting squads is precisely so that we can protect the southern border with police officers: with border hunters operating within the police force, who are only trained for this task, not for the police's additional duties, so that they can protect the Hungarian southern border. Thank you for protecting the Hungarian border by not having a gunfire in Hungary last weekend, but outside the borders of Hungary. That is why the southern border must continue to be protected. Thank you all for doing this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-157	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2022-07-04-158	Mr. Secretary, you didn't answer my question. I asked when the Hungarian Minister of Interior met with the Serbian Minister of Interior in this case, and he didn't answer that he did... or did reply indirectly, so you think that they really think that for a gross salary of HUF 260 thousand they want to protect the border with armed security guards and risk the lives of these people. I thank the police for putting their lives at risk, but I have to say that we, who live in the border area, know exactly how migrants cross the border every day: hundreds, I can say, thousands of people cross the border. And this is a permanent, continuous struggle, because you refuse to talk about changing legislation and deporting migrants until at least Rwanda. We'll escort them back, we'll taxi them, and then they'll come back. This is an abuse of the situation of the Hungarian police and, therefore, of future security guards, that they should risk their lives for so little money. I hope you're not close to the government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The new border hunting squad will benefit companies using security guards. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2022-07-04-159	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would draw your attention to the very important circumstance, honourable Member, that it is possible to recruit border hunters if the Parliament adopts the law establishing border hunting units if this is accepted here in Parliament. Then you can recruit border hunters. Obviously you can't before, so please don't confuse things that can't be mixed up if you're thinking logically or legally relevant. In recent times, as I mentioned, more and more illegal migrants have been detained at the southern border. Last year, in the same period, 46,000, and now more than 110,000. More than 820 smugglers were captured at the Hungarian southern border against 429, which was pro rata to the time last year. This shows that more and more people are coming. This suggests that more and more people will arrive by autumn, which is why these border hunting squadrons must be erected in autumn and defend the Hungarian southern border. Compared to this, the Hungarian Left does nothing in Brussels but constantly advocates migration, quotas, and when Hungary is on this issue... what the Hungarian people have clearly stated is that they do not want illegal immigrants [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then it should be a national unit. The left has never been able to show national unity on this issue either, because they have always been pro-Migration. [[The president's ringing again.]] And that includes Jobbik in full. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-161	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the response or to ask for the answer in person.
u2022-07-04-162	Yeah.
u2022-07-04-163	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Child protection is in serious crisis. Last year, when the Child Protection Act was amended, it would have been obvious to strengthen the protection of children by tightening the rules on pedophile criminals. The biggest problem is the shortage of professionals due to severe underpaidness, and the resulting tragic cases of child protection. So was the recent assault case. Meanwhile, neither doctors, social workers, nor teachers, nor policemen know when to turn to whom, what to do to prevent such horrors. According to the law, all institutional children should, in essence, live under family circumstances. Nevertheless, the restructuring of large-scale institutions is moving very slowly. Children with disabilities and special needs do not even stand a chance. The number of special foster parents is almost zero. The Dialogue has been demanding for years that there should be a substantial wage increase in the sector, or there will be no one left to look after the children. It is therefore necessary to organise the continuous further training of the members of the signalling system and to include the members of the residential environment among the participants of the signalling system. Training should be made compulsory again for adoptive parents. The emancipation of large-scale institutions must be carried out without delay, even this year. Last but not least, in the Btk. it should be made clear that, in cases such as the above, the police must open proceedings on their own time. The safe upbringing of children without parents is the responsibility of all of us. My question is that the government will finally implement the above proposals of the Dialogue. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the Dialogue and DK benches.]]
u2022-07-04-165	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It would have been very worthwhile for you to talk to the politicians of the Dialogue in the previous term, when we voted on the Child Protection Act here in Parliament, not to object to it, not to report it in every possible forum in Brussels, but to vote and support the fact that the level of protection for children really should be higher. And those who approach children with all kinds of unacceptable intentions should be punished as severely as possible. It would have been nice if you'd told me that a year ago, and your partymates didn't object to it, but supported it. I think all the good people in this room agree that we need to be very strict here. There are 23,000 children in the child protection system, 16,000 of whom live in foster care. There are 5,500 foster parents; and if I look at children under the age of 12 to whom you referred, 90 percent live in foster care. This ratio was much worse 10-12 years ago, but in recent years we have also expanded the benefits of foster parents, and we have also tried to increase the items that can be used to care for children, for which, let's say, they received a net HUF 15,000 in 2010 at the care of a child, which is now a gross HUF 100,000. Three children received a net of HUF 45,000, which is now gross of HUF 180,000. Thanks to this increase, thank God, many people felt that they were really helping these children not grow up in an institution among many children, but in a more familylike environment. But not only did we raise this, but we also gave foster parents a travel discount, we introduced the foster child separately to receive family support in a way similar to that of parents, and hundreds of people have used it from the very first minute. So, I think it also makes sense that what we could do in foster care, we did, and obviously the rise in minimum wage and other benefits also helped raise foster benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-04-167	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2022-07-04-168	I'm really glad that the foster family network is developing this way, and that's a really good thing. But where I come from and see institutional systems, there are still very serious problems, and I think that there is a lot to work on. And when we talk about children, we also talk about the need to be much stricter about the kind of person that can be around the child at all. I think that it is our responsibility to fully re-examine and re-examine this system and to tighten it up, and, if necessary, to integrate more money, more professionals and more responsibility into it, because these children are our future. Every single case is too much. And recently, but in retrospect, we see cases of abuse of children occurring almost every month or sometime. I think we can improve that, and if you have the intention, we will. Thank you.
u2022-07-04-169	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go. [[18.00]]
u2022-07-04-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, That was what the Child Protection Act was about, and that was what the child protection referendum was about, so that anyone who approached the child with that intention could not do it. And in that, I didn't exactly understand with common sense why there was such a huge rejection from the left. We could have agreed in this law, and we could have adopted this law together. I'm sorry that it actually became a conflict after that. But I agree, and that is why we have tightened up the legislation, that this has also become a particularly strict exception to the others, so that anyone committing a pedophile crime should never come near children again. That is why there is a separate register of them, which is why this should be checked separately when a person is in a job related to the supervision of children, whether or not he was previously registered in this register. That is why we have tightened up these sentences, because we also believe that if we act rigorously, there are strict criminal laws, both with special and general prevention, on the one hand, we can remove those who have such unacceptable tendencies from the children, and we will better deter others from committing such crimes. There is zero tolerance in this, and it must be very strict, and such a law was passed a year ago. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-04-171	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi and Máté Kanász-Nagy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Whose interest is it? It's an address. Due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave the right to reply. I ask you, do you accept the response or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer?
u2022-07-04-172	Thank you very much, but I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2022-07-04-173	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what are they doing? It's an address. Minister Balázs Fürjes, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[Antal Csárdi: Thank you very much, yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-174	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the salad law establishing the budget, three metropolitan public areas were owned by the state and transferred to the management of the V. district's assets. This proposal is the manyth proof that the government now fully regards public wealth as its own, which it can take away or assign to someone else. In Fidesz's reading, the capital should be happy to exist, but it does not think for a moment that it has control over its own territory or property. Just as there is evidence of what Fidesz thinks about local government: it doesn't care in the least who the people of Budapest have chosen for their leaders. Make it clear to everyone that the power belongs to Fidesz. Although I never thought I'd say this, in some ways we are lucky to have a pro-government mayor in District V, because if it were not so, honourable Secretary of State, they would have submitted this law, only then would they probably have attached the three public areas mentioned to Székesfehérvár, Zalaegerszeg or directly to Szút. Dear House, What we see here is not governance, but piracy raised to the level of legislation. A few years ago, only successful businesses had to be terrified of being looked at by a small ball called NER, but today the government has reached the point of kidnapping specific public spaces in front of us. I ask you to respect the people of Budapest and downtown at least so much that you can honestly tell me why you're taking these three public areas away from the capital? Do you plan to take such measures anywhere else, and can you guarantee, for example, that the quays will still be owned by the capital in a year's time? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2022-07-04-175	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I always look for the points of agreement, and we agree that it is a good thing that Péter Szentgyörgyvölgyi Fidesz mayor is the mayor of District V, and I agree with you on that. It's gonna be good for Downtown. Your mayor, Gergely Christmas, has made many unrealized, unrealized election promises. One of these is the return of the City Hall Square to the citizens of Budapest, the end of the car park there, the opening of the square, and the creation of a green park. We can use a stick to track this. Out of 400 billion a year, the city's leaders derail the city, and Budapest has become a chaos city, on the back of traffic jams, we don't know how much it costs, when the Chain Bridge is ready, stretches like the strudel, the same situation with Blaha Lujza tér or the renovation of metro line 3, which is supported by the government from the central budget by HUF 200 billion, but we don't know how it will ever be possible to travel on it. The latest idea is to black out the city at 11:00 and turn off the street lights in public spaces. It scares off tourists, but it attracts crime. What is it like when the government takes care of the operation of a public square in Budapest? Well, let's take a look around Kossuth Square, see what the state of Kossuth Square was like before, and what the state has been like since the government owned Kossuth Square. Sky and earth, greened, became a pedestrian zone, and Kossuth Square was beautiful. But this is not what is happening now, it is public property, so there is no privatisation or absconding, it is public property, it is taken from municipal property to municipal property. For example, the V. district municipality, with the exemplary maintenance of the Egyetem tér, proved that it is a good owner of the inner city squares, and that this change will benefit Budapesters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-04-177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2022-07-04-178	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary of State's agreement, the only thing you've thought about is power. I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that if we transfer your apartment to my property by law from tomorrow, it still raises constitutional concerns, regardless of whether it is private or private. I think that the kind of statement that you made about metro 3 for example is worth calling Mr. Mayor István Tarlós, who led the capital during the previous term, and then he will be able to tell you what difficulties he had in issuing public procurements. I did not get an answer as to what they were planning to do with these public areas, nor did I get an answer to ensure that the quays would be owned by the capital in a year's time. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-04-179	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-180	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman said that we agree on one question: it is good that Péter Szentgyörgyvölgyi is the mayor of the V. district, and that this is not a question of power. The mayor of a city or part of the city is about citizens, because of their democratic decision, the person of the mayor, and it is a good thing that citizens can choose to run a city. There is only one question about this public space that will benefit Budapest people from the change that is happening. It has benefited from Kossuth Square, and I am sure that these three spaces will become more orderly, cleaner, more reserved spaces, which will be in the management of the V. district government, cleaner and more orderly spaces. In the future, we will continue to assume a task if the Metropolitan Government cannot cope with a task. So we will see that the people of Budapest will need similar solutions. Obviously, it's a good thing we don't need such solutions, but we never get away from work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-04-181	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question, "Why do you want us involved?" It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Menczer granted the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, 130 days have taken place directly in our neighbourhood of the Russian-Ukrainian war. The Hungarian government has been in favour of peace from the beginning and has always stressed that a ceasefire and the opening of peace negotiations are needed as soon as possible, and that Hungary must stay out of this conflict, because this is not the war of Hungarians. Unfortunately, however, not everyone shares this position, some are on the side of war. Among them is the son of George Soros, Alexander, who spoke at last week's European External Relations Council in his father's empire about the need for the United States and its European allies to intervene in the war. [[18.10]] According to Soros Jr., the conflict should not be settled by the negotiating table, but by sending soldiers to help Ukraine. This is not the first similar statement on the part of the Soros family, György Soros wrote just two weeks after the outbreak of the war that Ukrainians should be helped by fighter jets, and at the Davos World Economic Forum he set the Ukrainian conflict straight as a struggle between open and closed societies. Dear Secretary of State, The External Relations Council is an important forum of the Soros network, where sometimes Hungarian politicians, such as Gordon Bajnai or Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Klára Dobrev, also turn around. In light of this, it may not be a coincidence that the Gyurcsány parties are also making this pro-war voice. Let us recall that their joint Prime Minister candidate said in the campaign that Hungary should send soldiers to the war. I ask Mr Secretary of State why George Soros and the old allies of Hungary want to drag Hungary into the Russian-Ukrainian war. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-07-04-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The question of war and peace can be decided once, and once a good decision can be made, because if one chooses war, he will never be able to come back from this decision, and he will never be able to change that decision again. As you said, the Hungarian government's position was clear from the beginning: we are on the side of peace, we are on the side of peace, and we said that this is not our war, and we must stay out of it. There are several very serious reasons for this: on the one hand, this war is happening in our neighbourhood, so it is very close to us, on the other hand, there are a large number of Hungarian national communities in Ukraine, at least in peacetime, so we have very strong reasons to stand for peace. Moreover, on 3 April, the Hungarian people made a clear decision in the election and made a clear choice between two alternatives: we said peace on the issue of war and peace, and indeed, as you mentioned, the left-wing Prime Minister candidate took a position in favour of the war, he said that there would be a situation where he would send Hungarian soldiers and weapons into this war. The Hungarian people have made clear decisions for peace, and the government continues to represent it. In addition, war poses a number of threats: physical danger and challenges, economic challenges, war inflation, energy challenges, energy crises, all of which we see before us. The simple and clear answer to all this is peace: if there is peace, then all these negative consequences will no longer have to be dealt with. The only good and correct answer to war is peace. And as far as the Soros stand for the war, I think there's nothing surprising about speculators, war means chaos, and speculators like to fish in confusion. We still represent the Hungarian national interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-185	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-186	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Indeed, the Hungarians do not want to get involved in this war, because it is not our war, but the two other countries. Of course, we stand by our Ukrainian friends, we sympathize with them, we help them, we provide unprecedented humanitarian aid for the Ukrainian people, for the sake of the Hungarians and Ukrainians. More than 800,000 Ukrainian citizens came directly to Hungary, and hundreds of thousands came indirectly from another country, and they were selflessly assisted by the Hungarian people. The government, NGOs, municipalities, relief organisations, together with the Hungarian nation, will help the Ukrainians. Indeed, we must stay out of this war, even if the Soros network and the irresponsible Left want to drag us into this war. Let us not forget that Hungary is also suffering from war inflation. As long as the war is not over, this high inflation will be with us. That is why the war must end, so that inflation will cease and the Hungarian economy, the economy of Europe, will be able to grow again, as the war weakens Europe as a whole. We have a strong Europe in our interest, a strong Hungary in our interest, and for that we need peace.
u2022-07-04-187	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-188	Thank you very much. Let me draw the attention of this House and the honourable Member to one more aspect, and let me bring one more aspect here. It was a NATO summit last week, and it is still the situation that was before, namely that NATO's position is entirely the same as that of the Hungarian government. We say from the beginning that we do not send soldiers and we do not deliver weapons into this war conflict, because it would jeopardise the Hungarian security interests and, by the way, the security interests of Hungarians and non-Hungarians living in Transcarpathia. The NATO position remains that NATO as an alliance does not carry weapons into this conflict, and NATO's position is the same as the Hungarian position: everything must be done to ensure that this conflict does not extend beyond the borders of Ukraine, because a NATO-Russian armed conflict would be synonymous with the Third World War. We have to avoid this at all costs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-189	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: what is the Hungarian government's response to the energy crisis? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As a direct consequence of the war in our neighbourhood, as well as the impact of EU sanctions on Russia, Europe is hit by the most serious energy crisis so far, the prices of essential energy sources are in heaven. The continent's economies are more or less dependent on Russian oil and natural gas, as it can be obtained from other sources with such energy only very expensive or not at all. Unfortunately, the European Union is divided on how to deal with this cardinal issue, and if ever, it would be vital to have a single position now, at least taking into account the essential needs of all actors. We are saddened to see Brussels say in this regard that it says that there is no established and consistent position on this issue based on Community values, but that it is also trying to enforce a dictatorship of a superstate towards the Member States in sanctions policy. Hungary and the Hungarian people are lucky to have a government that seeks and maintains the values of the reduction in overhead prices and is able to enforce national interests in terms of security of energy supply. At the same time, it is regrettable that, as a glove puppet of Brussels, the Hungarian opposition does not know, or worse, that it does not want to take on the conflicts that Hungary is undertaking not only for its own sake, but also for other countries with similar security of supply risks to resolve the energy crisis. I ask the Secretary of State what the Hungarian Government's response to the energy crisis is. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-192	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is clear in this war conflict who is the attacker, who is the attacker and who is the attacker, who is the aggressor and who is the victim, and obviously everyone, so we are on the side of the attacked. With regard to the reactions in Brussels, I can say that we have never been overly attached to the sanctions policy, because experience shows that they do not lead to results, but because of the war situation, we have said that unity is important now and not this kind of reasoning. Therefore, we supported the first five sanctions packages without further ado, saying that we do not believe in this too much, but if everyone else thinks that this will lead to results, we support this. At the same time, we have made it clear that energy, specifically oil and gas, is an area that means a red line to us. In this respect, European prime ministers and heads of state agreed at the European Council in Versailles that no decision would be taken that would harm the interests of one country or another. Compared to this, the proposal was then made by the Commission to sanction the supply of oil. Of course, we acted in accordance with Hungarian interest and finally managed to make fixed-line transportation an exception, so we could avoid paying HUF 700-800 for a litre of fuel in Hungary and continue to maintain the petrol stop and the price per liter of 480 HUF, which is the cheapest in the European Union. Then we got to what we had previously suspected and saw the gas coming next. In the case of gas, we have said that we are not willing to negotiate sanctions for gas. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-193	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2022-07-04-194	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear and clear answer, the merits of which are, however, shown and strengthened by a very important thing. [[18.20]] In particular, Hungary has taken a lot of effective steps to ensure the security of its energy supply in the last 12 years. It was not up to us to build a cross-border gas pipeline with the exception of Slovenia, but in this gas almost everywhere Russian gas would or would come across the border. Hungary can also ensure energy dependence by extending, for example, Paks I.'s life span, thus supporting the reduction of overhead costs. So the position that the Hungarian state represents in terms of security of energy supply is well founded, without precedent, and also serves the security of Hungary and Europe. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-196	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Energy supply is not an ideological issue, but a matter of physical reality. By reaching the exemption for fixed-line transport in oil, as I mentioned, we were able to maintain the fuel price of 480 forints per litre. I would like to remind you that in Croatia a gas stop was also introduced, a cap on the fuel price, only this is not 480 forints, but 700 forints, and the motorways are not covered by this difference. As regards gas, 85 percent of gas consumption in Hungary is Russian gas. Indeed, as you mentioned, this is not our fault, we have done the diversification work, we are able to buy gas from a number of directions, but most importantly from where there is a source and where there is a route in the previous section. It's not up to us. In a sanction, the Hungarian economy would be forced into gas, which we will never allow, and in Germany we are currently thinking about how to burden consumers with the rising and rising gas prices. We will never allow this in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-197	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:21 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Now it's time for questions to be discussed. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development:. How long will the government of the tax increase, the Orbán government, increase the burden? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for Finance with responsibility and competence. At the request of Minister, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The various officials of the Orbán government often bang their breasts by saying that the Orbán government is the government of tax reductions. Eurostat sees this differently, which concludes that the primary burden on the poor is a brutal tax burden in Hungary. And the problem isn't just 27 percent VAT raised by the Orbán government on the world record. What a miracle, but it seems to agree with Eurostat, György Matolcsy, who said the following sentence a few days ago: So tax increase, inflation increase says György Matolcsy. Eurostat also updated its statistics for net wages in 2021. According to this, the tax deduction in Hungary is 33.5 percent for a single person who earns an average wage. With this data, our country is already part of a range of EU Member States that pay more than the average and one of the largest. No wonder people can barely live with such tax burdens. The Orbán government is the government of tax increases, we have to say that. There were dozens of tax increases compared to 2010. Today it costs more to withdraw money, spend money on cards, eat more, drink, call, mail, go to the beach, go to the theater, buy medicine. The government of tax increases, the Orbán government, is causing a livelihood crisis in the country for hundreds of thousands of families. Minister Márton Nagy has now used the term "lifetime crisis." So, Minister, I ask what you want to do to reduce the burden of taxes, employers and workers, so that Hungarians do not suffer one of the biggest tax deductions in Europe that are burdened with work. What would you like to do to prevent a pound of bread from costing 600-1200 forints, and that now the apple should not be luxury on the Hungarian table? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-199	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai.
u2022-07-04-200	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. After what you said, I think we should look at the facts. What are the facts about tax reductions? You mention the withdrawal of workers. There is a so-called tax wedge calculation that is carried out by the OECD. He concluded that the tax wedge has dropped most in Hungary over the last ten or a few years. The tax wedge means that the burden of the worker and the employer is compared to the total labour burden. When you weren't sitting here, but your partymates were sitting here, and we took over the tax wedge by 53.1 percent, this was the second highest in Europe. Now let's see where we stand. Now, looking at 38 countries, the tax wedge has fallen the most in Hungary, and by doing so, we are in the middle of the EU, preventing, for example, Germany, Austria, Slovenia and Slovakia, even though tax incentives are not included in the calculation. But there's a reason you didn't tell me about the corporate tax rate, which is one of the smallest in Europe, nine percent, 19 percent at your time. He didn't talk about personal income tax, it's not a coincidence, 15 percent is one of the smallest in Europe. In your time, the highest rate was 36 percent, and he didn't mention that this government reduced the VAT on a significant part of basic food to 5 percent, which you didn't vote for at the time. What are we gonna do? We will continue, based on what people said on April 3rd this year with their votes. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-201	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Varga, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, There has been a lot of talk about the situation of teachers' wages and the importance of education for the future of our country. Allow me to draw your attention to a close link between catching up and education, and to put the discussion on raising teachers' wages in a slightly different light. Today, the wages of a beginner educator in the country are approximately HUF 200,000 net, which is basically extremely low, but if you take into account that it is not certain that the same challenges are faced by a teacher in Budapest and a teacher in Szabolcs or Borsodi, you can also see that these teachers are not motivated to teach disadvantaged children effectively. One of the pillars of catching up, I think, must be education. That is precisely why I am initiating a special wage for teachers in disadvantaged areas of the country, as they deal with disadvantaged children with special educational needs, mostly children from poverty, who require much more attention than their peers, and therefore a teacher has to invest much more in teaching. I think that this step is the basis for transferring knowledge to the poorest with the best possible efficiency. Thus, any student from extreme poverty in Szabolcs or Borsodi can later become a doctor, a lawyer, an economist or even the country's next Deputy Minister of Interior. Dear Minister, I have two questions for you. Do you agree that quality education is essential for effective catching up? Do you agree that educators in disadvantaged areas deserve more wages than their peers, thus also experiencing positive processes in catching up? And I'm not asking you about the plus 10-10 percent next two-year raise. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-04-203	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go. [[18.30]]
u2022-07-04-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Indeed, one of the very important functions of schools is that when people come from home from more difficult circumstances or do not care so much about them at home, the school compensates for this disadvantage. And we're not just starting this at school, but that's why we started a mandatory kindergarten from the age of 3, because what we saw when we started steering was that a 6- to 7-year-old child was already experiencing a year-and-a-half difference in development. They were both first - graders, only those who were fit for it, and those who were still qualified for the kindergarten center group. That is why we have taken the important step that if we try to balance them from the age of 3, then the difference will be smaller later. I'm glad that if you support this, it would be a great courage from the left. That's what we started there, and then we'll pick this up at school. These have some results, because if you look at the OECD statement, not the OECD, I'm sorry, or even that, but most of all PISA measurements, you see that when we started our governance, 26 percent of the children defined it as the main reason they were from disadvantaged families, and that 26 percent went down to 19.1 percent, so that is less of the influence of the difficult family background. In recent years, we have had a programme that has offered extra benefits to those who work in difficult circumstances. We had such a project to support the work of public education institutions operating in the beneficiary municipalities. 10,000 teachers and staff directly assisting educational work were involved, obviously in disadvantaged regions. They received an extra allowance of HUF 500 000 gross, precisely to acknowledge the work you said, Congressman, because there was indeed a lot more work to be done with a child there, because there was also a need to replace what the child did not get from home compared to another child who was more concerned with at home. And there is also another possibility of a replacement wage in the event that someone is indeed on the classification of the beneficiary municipalities [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] teaching in or in a school located in the institution in the field of regulation. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-205	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Miklós Hajnal, a representative of Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Why do the masses of families stay out of the cost reduction? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-206	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You regularly say that the government's priority is to reduce the cost and keep the costs low. However, they came to me from my constituency with a case that proves that a lot of people have missed out on the cuts in the bills, which is why I am turning to you now. I was approached by condominiums near MOM Park, because the families living there do not heat with district heating, but, according to the contract, provided heating with heat produced by a neighbouring generator. However, the new owner of the neighbouring generator and the shopping mall disputes the pricing so far and wants to fix prices for the Dutch gas exchange, which costs tens of millions of HUF higher for the condominium [[Bence Rétvári: Little Netherlands in Hungary! Control team!]] And with gas prices rising, it could soon mean a hundred million difference if we add prices to each home. I was approached right now from the MOM Residential Park, but this problem can affect thousands of households in Hungary, virtually all condos where they do not heat with district heating. In this crisis, families living there are becoming even more vulnerable. They are neither subject to frozen overhead nor to a 5% tax on district heat, but want to make them pay higher prices and charge them with an additional 27 percent VAT. I will, of course, also look for the OTP Property concerned, but this problem is of a general nature, which is why I draw attention to it here too. So I ask the Secretary of State: are you aware of this problem that seriously affects thousands of households? Do you intend to do this in the regulation? And what does the government intend to do to resolve this matter? Since we can help thousands of Hungarian households reduce their fees, I trust that this is a case that can be resolved regardless of party colors. Thank you for your meaningful response. [[A rare applause from the ranks of MSZP, Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2022-07-04-207	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-208	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to express my joy at the fact that Momentum recognises the positive effects on the reduction of the rent and stands for the reduction of the rent. I would like to ask the Member to do the same in all respects in Brussels, because I think that this is clearly in the interests of Hungary and in the interests of the Hungarian people. With regard to the specific case that you have referred, I would like to inform you that this information is not enough to provide adequate information. At the same time, the protection of Hungarian families and Hungarian families is of course very important to the government, and in order to protect them, we must not only create jobs, but also provide them with the right energy supply. According to Eurostat's report, energy prices in Europe have increased by 40% in one year. However, thanks to the government's decisions, the Hungarian families will receive the cheapest natural gas thanks to the reduction of the rent and pay the second lowest price for electricity in Europe. Due to the prolonged war and the sanctions policy in Brussels, inflation is high throughout Europe, where it is between 12 and 20%, and due to the price stops introduced by the government, this inflation is more moderate in our country. Families have come to mind. In the budget of 2023 we provide HUF 450 billion more for family support, which means 15 percent more than in 2022. The Hungarian families are in good hands, and that is why we have decided to maintain the reduction of the rent for the population in the future, and to provide some 100,000 small entrepreneurs. I would once again like to ask the Member to support these government measures both at home and in Brussels. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-209	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-04-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, all indications suggest that the price of food will remain persistently high, and there will be a further increase, which is not good news for Hungarians, since at EU level, Hungarian families living on record low pay have already had serious problems with weekend shopping, but also everyday shopping. The MSZP proposed in January 2021 that the Széchenyi rest card or more commonly known the SZÉP card be used for the purchase of warm food. For it is helpful to many if this allowance can be used to buy lunch rather than to spend leisure time. It was one of the few proposals when the government heard the help of those in need and accepted this proposal from the MSZP. However, further measures were needed due to loosen inflation and the historical low point of the forint, so the use of the SZÉP card was extended in the grocery stores, so food could also be purchased from SZÉP cards. This decision lasted for the first time until the end of May and then until the beginning of July, but since then we have no news of the rules governing the use of the SZÉP card. At the same time, however, we can say, as I said at the beginning, that the rise in food prices has not stopped, a further increase is expected. If you just look at the price of some food: about 30 percent of the bread, some cheeses, but also different meats. By the way, the MSZP has submitted the package of the "Létságságságszállítás" in which we also recommended a food coupon of 20,000 HUF for families in need and for small pensioners. Otherwise, this system operates in neighbouring Romania and is partly financed by the European Union. If you do not wish to use this type of help, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why you have forgotten SZÉP card users and extended the use of SZÉP cards in grocery stores. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-07-04-211	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-04-212	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is also clear from your question that you know that this measure has been announced on a temporary basis and then once with an extended period of time. Therefore, the government has not charged any discounts; the temporary possibility of using the amount available on the SZÉP card for food purchases has expired. The deadline of 30 June was well-known to everyone, and the press reported on its approach in detail. The government, as this measure has shown, has done everything in its power to protect jobs, protect pensioners and families, as well as the current economic and war inflation situation. [[18.40]] I would like to remind the Member that the Government has also taken a number of decisions in the round you have nominated, we have announced a price stop for 7 products, and we have curbed the price increase of these foods, such as crystal sugar, fine meal, pork legs, chicken, UHT milk and other basic foods. Currently, there is a 5% VAT on 9 product groups such as milk, eggs, fish, domestic meats, so the tax on basic foods has been significantly reduced by the government. We returned the personal income tax to the families, abolished the personal income tax to the under 25s, returned the 13th month's pension to the pensioners. The government spends about 5-6 percent of GDP specifically on helping Hungarian families, which is unique in Europe. I would ask you to take these into account when drawing up your opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-04-213	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry what measures would you like to introduce to mitigate the effects of heat waves in cities? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You are new to the government, but I will tell you that the Orbán government has a continuing debate with the reality that they believe that Hungary is a climate champion and the reality is that unfortunately, the government is performing very poorly in the fight against climate change. But the sad thing is that not only is the Orbán government, but humanity as a whole is quite Czech in this war, so there is an increasing emphasis on how we can adapt to the changing climate, because no one is denying that the climate disaster is upon us. In the eighties, the number of days higher than the average temperature of 27 degrees above the third degree heat alarm was only 2-3, it was more than last week, it is now at least three times this value, as the number of tropical nights has tripled since the 1990s, and by the 2050s the temperature will be roughly 3.4 to 3.6 degrees higher in Hungary and within Budapest. This means that the Hungarian capital will face climate conditions like Skopje, and by the end of the century every summer day will be considered a hot-waves day. Obviously, we know the solutions to these problems, and the capital is doing its job with its own incomplete toolbox: as many green surfaces as possible, as many trees as possible, as many running water, water surfaces as possible, and as little concrete, spacestone, as much free air ducts as possible. Compared to this, we can see that the government is moving in a very different direction. If we just go out here to Kossuth Square, we can see that every dark grey squarestone is covered, and it's simply a challenge to go through such a 36-degree day in Kossuth Square, either as they try to destroy the City Park, or just as the MOL Tower allows them to destroy the wind tunnel in Buda. So, in the light of the experience so far, one is not too confident when it asks what the government intends to do in order to survive climate change, urban heat islands and heat waves. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-04-215	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Here you go. [[A moment's pause.]] There'll be a voice in a minute.
u2022-07-04-216	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I believe that the government has adopted a number of very concrete action plans and climate protection laws in recent times, because climate protection and environmental protection are very important to us. Therefore, in the European Union, we are not in bad shape if we think, let us say, that we have the sixth best value in terms of CO2 emissions per capita, and we have also determined that by 2050 we will be climate neutral. In the climate and nature conservation action plan, we have identified a number of elements that we want to implement, and we have already started to implement them. We eliminate illegal landfills, allow the redemption of glass and plastic bottles and metal boxes, ban single-use plastics, support the renewable energy production of small and medium-sized enterprises, plant ten trees after each newborn, and multiply the capacity of solar power plants by 2030. We will achieve this sooner. In 2020, we adopted the first action plan for climate change, which included important measures to deal with heat waves, to increase green surfaces and water surfaces. In 2019, we launched the national forestation programme, which aims to increase the country's wooded area from 24 percent to 27 percent by 2030. In this context, a number of local actions will be carried out, and I myself have been involved in many of these actions. On 29 June, the Member States of the European Union adopted climate protection laws allowing the European Union to reduce CO2 emissions by 55 percent by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. About that, too, I think we're doing just fine. He mentioned the capital as a close. I would like to ask you to help me find a way to avoid this huge amount of garbage that is in Budapest, because I think that we are talking about the most beautiful capital in the world, and that is obviously not a positive thing for others and the people who live here to feel it. So I'm asking for your support in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-04-217	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. The ecological disaster affecting Sajó and the pollution of the Transylvanian tributaries of the Tisza require immediate and effective action. Why can't you get the government to act? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-218	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have brought here on several occasions the matter of pollution in the Sajó River, and I have often talked about the ecological disaster that is unfortunately taking place. I have visited the Upperlands twice, in the district of Rožnya, where this pollution has entered the river, and I have also been to the Slovak Parliament by official means. It became visible after several months of idleness, because for several months, the Slovak Government did nothing to ensure that the pollution that got in was significantly reduced. However, I have already reported this to the public and here too, the problem has not been solved, and one third or one quarter of the previous contamination still enters the river, which makes it impossible for the wildlife to return. So we really need to act. My question about Sajó is what the Hungarian Government has been able to do in recent weeks in order for the Slovak Ministry of Economy to install this particular filtration equipment. My other question, I have also talked about this problem, concerns the pollution and risks of Tisza's Transylvanian tributaries, a preliminary research revealed that several tributaries are exposed to quite astonishing risks, and in this way the Tisza is also in particular at risk. My question to Mr Secretary of State is why these researches were stopped last summer, the government discussed the risks that appear here, i.e. the risks directly affecting Tisza's tributaries in Transylvania and the Tisza. What information do you have about this when the research is stopped? And what can you do in particular, what can the government say, how will they prevent an ecological disaster on the Tisza tributaries that we can see in the case of Sajó? I trust very much that you feel, Mr Secretary, that I am not picking up party political strings in this matter, but I am trying to promote that these pollutions can be stopped and that we can indeed protect our rivers together. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-04-219	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, it is very important for all of us that rivers in Hungary have a healthy composition, no contamination, for everyone, I think this is extremely important. It is also in my district, we rowed on Ipoly just this weekend, it is very important for man that the living waters really be living waters and do not allow pollution into them. Therefore, the government will do everything in its power to ensure that any neighbouring country, if you look at it, does not get contaminated in the waters. We have also taken steps not only in recent weeks and months, but in recent years, so that if anything comes into our rivers, we can clean it up as soon as possible. Of course, also in the case of Sajó, the government took immediate action and requested the assistance of the Slovak party. We are vulnerable here because the Hungarian authorities are not able to act there, but the Slovak authorities have to do so, but they have the same interest, because they also have these rivers in their territory. You know very well that the rivers in Hungary all come from abroad, so we are exposed from this point of view to the neighbouring countries. [[18.50]] To reduce municipal waste pollution in Tisza and Szamos, the government provided HUF 1.3 billion in 2019. This ensures the collection of communal floating waste from neighbouring high-water countries. Four intervention sites have been built, cameras have been installed, and as a result of the investment, the water service can intervene and remove waste from the river in a concentrated way. Several interventions have been carried out since the system was installed. Unfortunately, it was necessary, but we were better able to defend ourselves on our side. As far as Sajó is concerned, honourable Member, there is the International Danube Protection Committee and there are the Border Water Committees through which we can formally make these signals, which other countries should have known by then, since monitoring stations in their territory detect these impurities before we do, since they arrive much later than we do. However, we did so, and we asked for immediate intervention through them. I would also like to say what the Water Management Board and other government agencies have done immediately for the Hungarian people and for the rivers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-221	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Tünde Szabó, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Regional Development:. How does the GINOP Plus tender scheme contribute to the development of Nyíregyháza? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-04-222	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Nyíregyháza has become a strong, economically stable city in the last 12 years. We are proud of the successes and achievements achieved together, the development of our county seat, despite the period of war with the pandemic and our border. The municipal and interim elections have also shown and confirmed that we are on the right track. People here know they can count on the government. In 2010, as a legacy of left-wing governance, unemployment in Nyíregyháza and its region was 12%, which is now only 3.5 percent. Government efforts are behind job creation, such as the new investment announced recently, which is the largest investment of the year to date of some HUF 290 billion, which will create more than 1,200 new jobs in our city. In addition to large investments, we must also highlight the SME sector that provides the majority of jobs, as we know that rapid technological and IT development has put a number of challenges ahead of this area. Hungarian businesses are forced to produce and increase value, which requires technological change, digitalisation, innovation skills and the development of the workforce. There is a need to improve productivity across a wide range of domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the defining programme of the EU cycle 2021-27, which we intend to achieve along the three target groups of GINOP Plus by strengthening enterprises with high growth potential. The application programme will help businesses in the most disadvantaged regions to develop ways of helping them to catch up from the point of view of development and labour. In this regard, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask how many companies in Nyíregyháza have received aid under the GINOP Plus tender scheme. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-223	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-07-04-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Government of Hungary has set the goal of making Hungary one of the five most livable Member States of the European Union by 2030. The development of the 2021-27 period was also planned in this spirit. Within the framework of the Economic Development and Innovation Operational Programme Plus, we support the competitiveness of the domestic economy by more than HUF 2440 billion from EU funds in the period 2021-27, together with domestic co-financing. The programme supports business development and innovation to an extent and more widely beyond the previous period, and we continue to pay particular attention to tourism. At the same time, the aim of 65 percent of the resources is to reach the EU average of development as soon as possible by transferring them to regions in North Hungary, South Transdanubia, South Great Plain and North Great Plain. As a result, Nyíregyháza and Nyíregyháza companies will also have a privileged development opportunity under the GINOP Plus and other EU development programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Crown Virus pandemic and Russia's war on Ukraine have shaken the entire world economy. In order to create the resilience of domestic businesses and to help protect jobs, the GINOP Plus was launched among the first in the EU by the Government of Hungary. Already at the beginning of July 2021, one fifth of the programme's budget has been available to domestic businesses from the date of publication of the proposals, with pre-financing of the national budget. From Nyíregyháza 95 supported organisations won more than HUF 11.7 billion in funding, and these grants will provide further development opportunities to Nyíregyháza and will create new jobs in the coming budget period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-225	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Móring József, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. What kind of government measures help to reach Lake Balaton? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-226	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The school year is over, summer is here, the heat is raging, and most of the families have already planned their vacations. After two epidemic years, you can finally travel freely, without restrictions. Prior to the pandemic, the most popular of travelers were the farthest overseas destinations. However, since the outbreak of the pandemic, domestic destinations have become more popular as easily and quickly as possible. Thanks to the SZÉP-card payment opportunities and the Erzsébet programme, the demand for domestic tourism and domestic holidays is increasing year after year. As a member of the Parliament of Balaton, I am delighted to see more and more people wishing for a holiday enjoying their days on the shore of Lake Balaton. Dear Secretary of State, Citizens, many of the families, prefer public transport, especially pensioners and students, who can reach their destinations cheaply and comfortably with a travel discount. It is important for the Volánbusz and MÁV to ensure comfortable and comfortable travel for passengers, so they keep up-to-date and upgrade their vehicles so that they can increase their quality in transport. In my view, much more people today choose public transport because they can travel under better and better quality conditions. In addition to quality vehicles, I would also consider it particularly important to make the timetable for Community transport predictable and denser, as a smoother journey is in the interests of all of us. The main tourist attraction of Hungary is Lake Balaton, whose transport infrastructure development is key. That is why I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what improvements are expected in Community transport in Balaton. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-227	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-228	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has given priority to continuously expanding transport networks and improving the state of existing infrastructure. As I have already said in the hour of immediate questioning, the development of the transport sector in the 2023 budget will provide more than HUF 168 billion, a significant part of which will be aimed at the development of the rail sector. The main objectives of achieving the planned development are to increase the population retention power of the areas concerned, to promote environmentally friendly modes of transport and to develop rail networks. We will also invest more in wages in the next year's budget, which will also encourage those who choose the rail career. The government is committed to rail development. Our aim is to ensure modern, competitive, environmentally friendly rail transport that meets the needs of passengers. [[19.00]] During the negotiations with the leaders of MÁV-Start and Volánbusz, we have decided on a number of developments, which, in turn, have a major impact on the accessibility of Lake Balaton and Lake Balaton. Since Lake Balaton has become an increasingly popular tourist destination in recent years, we would like to promote better accessibility of the settlements on the lake. From 12 county seats you can reach the northern and southern shores of Lake Balaton without care, and from the help of the Volánbusz you can use regular bus services to help the settlements with no railway connection. We also developed the night schedule, in the summer of 2022 the night trains on the north coast already run every two hours and on the south coast every hour. Our common goal is to make Balaton an important natural resource, a holiday destination for everyone, which can provide a quality alternative for those who want to relax in Hungary. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would also like to thank the Member for the sacrifice he is doing for the region. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-229	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Andrea Hegedüs, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Who will teach me in Hungarian schools? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-04-230	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The central bank expects inflation above 12 percent. Food prices have increased by 25 percent, and the brutal Orbán austerity package that awaits us is meaty for everyone but the privileged ones. Teachers spend the summer with an upset stomach to see what can be expected from September. Three times ten percent is just charity. In 1989, László Kövér presented the following sign:. In the Police State, the policeman's salary is higher than his teacher, vice versa in the rule of law. Based on this, we live in a police state, because the average salary of teachers did not reach 400,000 forints last year, but the police had 556 thousand. It is fair to compare the salary of teachers with the graduate gunman, which was more than twice the salary of teachers last year. I stress this because the Minister for Education is not a professional, but a police general. Of course, it's not the police's salary, it's theirs, it's the teachers'. Last year, teachers' wages were lower than the national average, and despite a 10 percent increase, the average salary increased by 15 percent. In addition to high inflation, teachers' real earnings are decreasing and decreasing. The result is a growing shortage of teachers. I called some schools at random and reported more unfilled jobs everywhere, and this is expected to be a double next year. In September, at least 50 per cent of the wage increase is required and the projection fund needs to be adjusted to the current minimum wage as soon as possible. The Prime Minister promises a raise when EU funds arrive, but no wages can be paid. According to our colleague Nacsa, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] However, our economy is successful (the president bell rings) Even without Brussels. Maybe you should talk to each other about who's right while the education collapses. So my question is, are you going to wait for the collapse or are you willing to do something about it?
u2022-07-04-231	Thank you...
u2022-07-04-232	Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-233	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-234	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, When your party partner Gergely Arató sits in front of you, perhaps with a line or two, when he was Secretary of State for Education, I don't know if you remember what struck Gergely Arató at that time. The teachers brought the keys to the schools that Gergely Arató and Ferenc Gyurcsány closed. At the time, it was not such a nice thing to say about how important school is; then they did not care about what would happen to teachers in more than 380 places where these schools were closed; then it was not said that you had made teacher training a student, so that anyone who graduated from school under even more difficult conditions would not be able to apply for teacher training afterwards. Then they didn't talk about it, they just took a month's wages from the teachers, and your groupmate, his fellow Member, received the symbolic set of keys on which the keys of the closed schools were symbolically in his hands. Now, that's what you did, and that's what you got from the teachers, as a symbol of your closing activity. And when we, although from one of the difficult economic situations, passed through the energy crisis to the war situation, your candidate for prime minister, Klara Dobrev, said that there was no need for a pre-election government business to say this teacher's wage increase. Do we need it or don't we need it? But your candidate for Prime Minister Klára Dobrev in Brussels also said that they should stop the barren debates and take action, and finally adopt the rules that exclude anti-democratic governments from using EU funds in order to exclude Hungary from the use of EU funds. And we have made it clear that once we have access to these resources, we want to spend a large part of them on educators' wage increases, hundreds of billions of forints. And you are working in Brussels to ensure that this funding does not come. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Nevertheless, if it comes or doesn't come, this year's 10 percent increase has been made, next year's 10% increase will be made, and next year's 10 percent increase will continue. [[Balázs Barkóczi: inflation is taking him away!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-04-235	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Here's the last question today. Péter Balassa, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Why is the section between M86 Szombathely and Vát free of charge? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-236	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, [[Sic! Dr. Zsófia Koncz raises his hand.]] Thank you for letting me ask you this as a last oral question, a very important issue. I would like to ask an oral question on another question concerning our county, Szombathely and its surroundings. It is clear to everyone that there are motorways and motorways in Hungary that are free of charge, such as the Miskolc in the north-south direction, such as a certain section of the M9 in the north-south direction at Szekszárd, but there are also parts of the M0 motorway which are free. It would be necessary in and around Szombathely, and I am very sorry that our Member of Parliament, the representative of the region, is not present on this oral question. Why do I say that? Since 2016, since the expressway was handed over between Szombathely and Győr, the motorway M86 has been difficult since the life of the people living on Zanaton. What am I talking about? This traffic flows through the Zanat main road, which is a heavy burden for the people living there, but in recent years, several promises have been made. Unfortunately, promises haven't turned out to be anything, which means that they still make life miserable enough for the people of Zanaton. It was said earlier that the section between the M86 Szombathely and the Vát will be free of charge and can be used free of charge by the people living there. If you live there, you know very well what a load it is on the lower roads, and what hardships that means to those living there every day. This is also interesting, because before the local elections in 2019 the then Fidesz representative of the region, i.e. the district representative, promised to do so, and with a consensus decision in the general assembly, a unanimous decision was taken to initiate the free phase between Szombathely and Vát. There is only one proposal that would solve this 13-kilometer section, and that is making it free. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister and the Secretary of State why people living here are being punished when people living in other settlements can use the roads there free of charge. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and highways. Why do the Szombathelyi, Zanatians, the nobles, the Vátians and the Sárvárs stay out of this opportunity? Thank you very much for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-04-237	Thank you, Congressman. The question is two minutes, Congressman. Next time, let's practice. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-07-04-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has given priority to the continuous development of the transport network and the development and road construction of road networks of unprecedented size is taking place in the country. When the road program was launched, there were 14 cities with county rights on four lanes, and by the end of last year, with Szolnok, Eger and Sopron, this number had already increased to 20. Our important goal is to achieve the availability of all county-righted cities with a high service-level road network, to drive and connect motorways to the international motorway network, to improve access to technological and industrial centres, to reach the motorway network within 30 minutes from any locality in the country. [[19.10]] High-quality road accessibility is a key factor in improving local quality of life, in the development of the economies of some municipalities and regions. The Vas County people, who had to wait until 2016 for the fast-track connection, know that. The vast majority of the section of M86 to Szombathely was handed over to road users after 2010. Let me also remind you that by the beginning of 2017, passenger cars were able to use the final part of the road, which was built before the Csorna-Hegyfalu section, free of charge. As the Member knows, maintaining the road network requires considerable resources, revenues from tolls are the main financial source of road management, renovation and maintenance work. Heavy goods vehicles have already been banned in that section, so they can only appear in the part of the city if their destination is located there and they have an individual recovery permit. In the specific case that you are asking, the profession takes the view that the exemption is not an appropriate means of dealing with traffic problems. I would like to point out that, of course, we are doing everything we can to promote national road development in the municipalities, and we are asking the Member for his support. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-04-239	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat: with the title Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-04-240	Mr President, Dear House, If we want to discuss a problem in Hungary, it is worth reaching objective standards, and I also like to shoot the information leaflet that any of our fellow Members could have taken over here on the subject of housing. We also thank you for the work of an office that has done an incredibly high-quality job for many years, helping its representatives. I would like to note that the Eurostat statement quoted here has not long been analysing, from 2022, the percentage of people living in severely inadequate housing conditions, taking into account the figures for 2020. We are talking about more than 20 percent in Hungary. Here the housing roof structure, the wet walls or sockets or rotten window frames are named, but obviously there are countless other housing problems not only in the village and not only in the countryside in Hungary; this problem is quite widespread at the metropolitan level. It is also not difficult to obtain data on the number of newly built apartments, where typically we would have to own 40,000 new-built apartments every year in order to replace the property stock every hundred years, obviously including various modernizations. But what we can see is that some of the housing difficulties stem from the fact that half of this amount is not built, so the real estate stock is changed every 200 years in Hungary on the basis of current data, including panel houses or kadár houses or Kádár cubes. Overall, we can also see and today it has been said that the average rent of the apartments is also brutally increasing, because there is not only a small number of newly built apartments, but also rentable apartments, here the average rent in Budapest has increased from 130 thousand to 175 thousand. What we can see is that Airbnb's incredibly flawed management has taken thousands of apartments out of the market, so Airbnb operates in the same conditions as I think, avoiding public burdens more than it should, but it is certain that from the supply side, it has greatly reduced the number and proportion of apartments that can be removed, mainly in the city centre and in the inner Buda, Pest, which contributes to the price explosion as it does in countless major cities in the world. We have come to see how an average Hungarian youth can get a home of his own. Here today, a secretary of state or fellow Members have been telling me for years from the government side that the Hungarian people prefer to own property, that it is closer to it than the lease. I think, by the way, if we did one of these statistics, 100 or 101 percent would say that if you could choose, yes, you'd want your own property, not rent. But there are millions of people living in this country who are left out of statistical planning, who cannot afford to pay for a new apartment in a residential park, or who do not have their own family house, they live in a flat, often they stay in a part of the house, in a room. Indeed, these fellow countrymen have the same family-creation plans and children's intentions, and often these wonderful intentions are not realized because they cannot be realized without space. For this reason, we are not only scratching the government to support construction and the increase in the number of new builders, but also to create a public-based rental program. We put it down under the name "Our Castle" concept many years ago. We also collect the government to pay attention to all Hungarian children and place half a million forints in a so-called future fund, a future account, which is entitled to all Hungarian children, and which, by increasing the amount of money, is eventually not paid in cash at the age of 18 but dedicated, electronically used for two purposes: on the one hand, it can spend it for housing purposes, whether it is part of the purchase or for rent, and it can spend it on educational expenses. Obviously, this system could be improved if an additional amount of this amount were placed in all accounts, and the management and enhancement of a housing portfolio with a public background could be achieved, because it would be possible to manage homes themselves as a long-term rental. But this is a next step, in the first round we would be satisfied if all Hungarian children received this half a million forints to start their life as an independent start-up support. You could say it's a big sum. Obviously, I would throw the ball back, that the Hungarian future is not much, especially if these compatriots can manage in their homeland afterwards. But if we look at the draft budget, the amount requested by me for the Hungarian future does not represent one tenth of the additional tax collected for the following year. That's all we need for the future in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-07-04-241	Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group has applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-242	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, A few days ago, there was a shocking revelation that Péter Takács, State Secretary for Health, spoke at a professional conference about the government's own jurisdiction over local government clinics. I could say it's a thief's pace Fidesz-style. The municipalities have spent, operated and prepared to provide health care at a high level, and now, by seeing this, the government is collecting the specialist clinics that the municipalities have already spent billions on operating and developing to improve specialist care for the people here. The solution is nothing new, however, because during the epidemic threat, we can recall that the government has left without consulting, hijacked and redirected this professional service. But let's just consider that they took it on the grounds of the epidemic, so they took it under the control of the hospitals. That's how it was with the Újpest office, by the way. But as a representative of Újpest-Angyalföld, I find the thief's pace which you dictates outrageous. You, for whom health is apparently not important and not worth it, because let's just look at the hospitals you're maintaining, what they're in. This is a number of questions for you, and you are doing what I just mentioned as an example, that you are taking everything away without agreement. Several times, you have demonstrated that you are not interested in the health, well-being, basic interest of the people of Újpest, the people of Újpest, but only about how they can cause political and moral harm to our local government and the office of the people of Újpest. I demand a statement of how much they will sacrifice to these and this institution when we see, as I said, the state of hospitals. To be clear, I would like to give an example of the gravity of the situation. The government wants to einstand the working good institution, we have provided continuous improvement so far, on the seven floors we go from floor to floor in renovation and development. The district supports the local clinic with HUF 300 million annually in order to make the least of the medical or nursing needs, so there should be a solution to this. We're spending this money specifically on someone who can heal in the district. So we were able to reduce the number of people in line, start new health services and make improvements. In the interests of the Újpestians, we proposed not only this, but also the construction of the hospital, and even the municipality prepared a preliminary study of this in order that the government, the Ministry, might hear and understand. [[19.20]] To this end, I have also made a proposal for a budgetary amendment. I look forward to how the pro-government representatives will vote on this in July. Finally, I would like to give you an example of how you deal with health care and how you think about it, in addition to expecting you to prepare and answer these questions. But what answer can be received from a government that, by the way, has collected the incomes of the public health product tax, which has multiplied its income over the last few years under its popular name, by the way, the chip tax, since 2011, is now managed with revenues above HUF 50 billion. In principle, they could also finance public health objectives, even because they have undertaken this in law, and the law requires you to do so. Thus, while these tax revenues, i.e. public health tax revenues, have increased significantly, while people's health has not only improved, it has even deteriorated. So what you are doing is not enough to tax people, take their money, and not to devote it to health services, the result is that Hungarians' health is not improving. That is why you are responsible, and that is just proof that you are irresponsible in managing health resources. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-07-04-243	Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Balázs Barkóczi, MEP, DK Group, applied for a post-scheduled speech:. When will the promised panel program continue? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have become accustomed to the fact that certain words in the Orbán government, which lies in the system of national cooperation itself, have a special meaning. If this government says that it appreciates teachers, it means that they increase the number of hours, the administrative burden of teachers, and they take away their benefits, as well as their fundamental rights to strike. If this cabinet claims to be family-friendly, it means that it will not increase the family allowance by a penny, instead it will hit the Hungarian families with record inflation, tax increases and passed-on special taxes. If this government says they're starting a panel renovation program, then we can be sure they won't do anything other than the announcement of a multimillion-dollar media campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, In my constituency, Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpalota and Újpesten, there are about 15 thousand house-building and condominium dwellings that are outdated in energy, and according to the draft budget submitted by the government in 2023, there is no chance that they will be renewed from a central source. Of course, it wasn't always like that. May I remind you that in the first phase of the panel program, left-wing governments spent HUF 34.5 billion until 2007 to renovate the panel apartments. From this frame, 24 percent of the housing in the building factory, some 190,000 apartments, were renewed. And most importantly, the energy consumption of these homes decreased by an average of 30 percent at that time. Since 2008 as part of the renovation of the New Hungary program, new apartments were renewed with 60 percent state support, but since 2011 the new government suspended these applications and nothing has happened since then. Fidesz let them go through the 15th. the hands of district and Újpest citizens who live in apartments that do not correspond not only with regard to energy efficiency but in almost no way to the 21st century. The requirements of the century. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, As I said, in the framework of the programme run by left-wing governments, around a third of the panel housing with around 800,000 industrial technologies was renewed, which means that the total number of homes to be renovated is today around 600-630 thousand in Hungary. The inaction of the government in building renovations is particularly incomprehensible, since the buildings are the largest energy consumers in Hungary, i.e. a real reduction in the cost of building renovations could be guaranteed by these renovations. If energy savings were not just an empty political slogan for you, then building renovations could now reduce energy consumption by about 16 percent. This would help those who need this most, the multitude of decent Hungarian families who have problems paying bills at the end of each month. Today, the number of these families is higher than ever. Record-high inflation, tax increases and passed-on special taxes are not enough, one in six households in Hungary today suffers from energy poverty. This means that every six Hungarian households are unable to pay for a level of heating or other basic energy services required for a decent quality of life. But while you, as usual, have failed the Hungarian families in their troubles, we are trying to help you. Therefore, the representatives of the Democratic Coalition submitted an amendment to the 2023 budget to restart the panel programme canceled by Fidesz in 2011, extending it to the condominiums. So now it is your turn to decide that it is still more important to let your family members and their oligarchs steal freely, or to put an end to this, so that Hungary can finally have access to European Union funds, and DK suggests that they will start to refurbish the panels and condominiums that can be achieved from these funds. It is not the enrichment of the trombones, not the yachting of friends, nor the flying of the Prime Minister to matches, but the real national interest, which would serve the Hungarian people, including thousands of families from Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-07-04-245	After the agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, DK Group, came forward. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-04-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not give up, and I would like to revive the teacher-student problem map again, because teachers do not have the opportunity to knock on Parliament's door day after day, but I would be happy to do so instead. After the election, you remained in government, but unfortunately, the problems remained. What do you mean, they stayed? ! They're piling up! The existing problems have been peaked: 13 percent inflation, stagflation, extra profit, energy prices, food prices, 400 HUF. You know, it's like garbage, it's gathering, it's gathering, it's burying its owner. Except when garbage is always thrown around someone else's house in a crappy way. You are throwing everything at the European Union and the government 12 years ago. I miss self-criticism, but there's a lot of false promises. One of their reporters has been thrown out that in the second half of the year, the government will conclude the partnership agreement with the EU, and then there will be a teacher's wage increase. Do you believe that you can pay wages with EU money? I can tell you it's fake. And where's the partnership so far? Then let's stop the huxite and the, , stop Brussels! Now suspended, just give me the money? Wow, wow, wow, wow, When a student goes home and says he's got an "F," but he's wrong about the others, the answer to the good parent is: I don't care who's got an "A" other than you, the problem is that you got one. You always shift responsibility by referring to the statistics of the foreign countries, and you do not make a decision, if you do, it is a charity, an example of three times 10 percent. Teachers are not waiting for charity. They don't want to live in a 2022 feudalism or Horthy world. The palace, the serf, the priest's bourgeoisie and the bench of shame in front of the church are for textbooks with the cane. Prove to me that you won an election not with a good slogan, but with more than that. In your intel note, it appears in the corridor here that it is difficult to define the extent of the shortage of teachers due to the contradiction of available data in Hungary, and the KSH data showing the proportion of vacant posts indicates that the deficit is small. Small? A teacher grinds chalk on the board in anger. With a simple phone call, you can find out how many teachers were missing in a school last year and how much is now. The shortage of numbers for the past and the current closed school year was reported out of hand. You have to swallow the frog: education has gone to internal affairs. Sándor Pintér doesn't have a professional record, and he can't even have a vision of the transformation of the education system. It can't be expected of him, but their educational consultants behind the desk and not close to Cathedral should be able to see the decisions that have gone wrong over the past few years. [[19.30]] For example, their system conversion went sideways because they pushed their innovations into public education instead of being introduced experimentally in front of it. The professional, organisational and economic autonomy of the institutions has been abolished. The head of the institution has no decision-making competence. The teacher training system has vanished. There's no free textbook selection. It is now a fact that both a teacher and a student must meet central political expectations as nodding John. Hope is the last thing I'm gonna do, so I'm gonna try the impossible. A good teacher always tries to find the right method for the individuality and personality of students, if they experience distortion. It's true that you've grown out of the school bench, but you haven't been able to see the forest from a tree for a long time. A proposal to alleviate the shortage of teachers: competitive teachers' wages are needed, this is the basis. A pensioner continuing to teach should not have to give up his pension, be exempt from the payment of pension contributions after his earnings. Young leavers should only be lured back with higher wages and additional benefits. If they stay well-paid, talented educators and come back to the cathedral, talented children will become talented adults and we will be a talented society. Modern dynamism is needed, where teachers teach the future on the digital table and the past stay in the history lesson. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-04-247	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ms Mária Kállai, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of culture building a city. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-248	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank the cultural wallet for the fact that in 2022 a city with Szolnok county rights could be the highlight of the night of the museums. Culture is really building a city, and I thank you specifically for the 20th time, on the night of the Jubilee Museums. I also thank you for the fact that the mayor of our city was able to present our programmes in the national media, together with Mr. State Secretary, and the Deputy State Secretary of two ministries also honoured the city on the programmes. In view of the national programme range, it was not worth sleeping this night, as the visitors in the whole country were attracted to a minimum of 2,500 programs at 400 locations. As far as our city is concerned, this year the event took place on a large number of sites with the cooperation of institutions and civil communities operating in the city. We can say, and it is obvious that we were the central location, that after Budapest we provided the largest supply; and it is of particular value that, besides the county-righted town, 9 small settlements in the region were also involved. This year, in Szolnok, despite the fact that there was a pouring rain, we waited for the visitors in 25 locations and in 9 related small settlements with a total of 150 programs. What was it that night? Of course, it is very difficult to restore the atmosphere in which families and friendly communities admire our treasures, marvel at the railway almarium, open up parts of our buildings that are not seen every day, or participate in very valuable guided tour, concerts, performances, screenings, sightseeing small trains, guided tour, night fairs. Thank you to everyone who has worked for the magic of culture to give you a strong experience. But let's move on. If we analyse Szolnok's identity and peculiarities, then the cultural life of the city in a broad sense is highly appreciated. On the eve of the night of the museums, the oldest art colony in Hungary was opened, the celebration series of the Szolnok Artists' Camp celebrating its 120th birthday, and the exhibition launching the event series, which was also the opening of the all-art festival between the arts. The highlight was the weekend of July 1-2. The programme of this was also a memorial to our sculptor Ferenc Simon's 100th birthday; we summoned the significant sculptor of the colony with a memorial exhibition. But our Munkácsy-winning sculptor, Gábor Pogány, celebrated his 60th birthday, which he honoured with an exhibition of oeuvres, opened by László L. Simon, Director General of the National Museum. Thank you for that. In accordance with our traditions, every branch of art was present this year in the ancient park of the art colony on the 120th birthday. It is important to say and highlight, and I think that it is also well known nationwide that it is experiencing the recent flowering of the 120-year-old artist colony in Szolnok, and at this moment it is writing the history of Hungarian art. There was theatre, film, fine arts, literature, classical music, light music, classical, modern dance, performance, siesta, joy music, reading island, food, drink, peace and friendship, as the artistic director of the colony said. The institutions and organizations of our city also introduced themselves at this event, linked to the programmes of the art colony. During these long two weeks, there were thousands of people who loved culture at the events. In the 2030 strategy of Szolnok county-righted city, culture has a very important role to play. I consider it extremely important that, thanks to the cult strategy of the Government of Hungary, access to culture and participation in cultural value creation are also very natural areas. I think that we are seeing very serious rural developments for this country. Thank you for that. The role of this is community-building, binding, and its impact on quality of life is indisputable. For this reason, we hold that both in Szolnok County and in its region, culture with a broad understanding really has the power to build settlements. Our city will celebrate its 950th anniversary in 2025. Of course, we are already preparing for the Jubilee programmes, and cooperation and the value-added and value-creating power of communities will be very important in this too. With this motivation, we will continue to work for the good of the people who live here. Once again, with respect and respect, I thank you for everything that makes Szolnok one of the citadels of culture. I thank you for the natural nature of access to cultural treasures and participation in value creation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2022-07-04-249	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of the chances and opportunities of East Nógrád. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-04-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, We in East Nógrad never had a simple situation. In the years of the change of regime, coal mining and heavy industry have created a dramatic situation in our region, as unemployment was above 30 percent, in fact we appeared on the map of Hungary as a social, economic and social crisis. That is why it was important that, until 2002, each of the governments at that time tried to lend a helping hand with the priority support of the most disadvantaged regions. The first years of the two thousand years were particularly sparkling, industrial parks were created, and the foreign capital appeared intensively in the Bátonyterénye, Pásztón and Salgótarján, we implemented a very significant sewage treatment program, we launched the development of road 21 and built excellent cross-border connections, so we had a real chance to catch up. However, shortly after 2002, left-wing governments successfully hijacked our region from the upward course. The four lanes of road 21 have been cut off, the flow of working capital has lost momentum, unemployment has jumped, migration has intensified, priority support for disadvantaged areas has been abolished. After the change of government in 2010, however, we were once again given the chance to take our destiny into our own hands after many years of localisation and, with the support of the government, to start construction and repositioning East Nógrád. At that time, we set three main objectives: on the one hand, to achieve economic development with job creation and, on the other hand, to put our region on the development map of Hungary, and, on the third, to strengthen local identity. Despite all kinds of difficulties, the fleeting ten years before Covid were successful in the life of East Nógrád, because we had four lanes across the road 21 between Hatvan and Salgótarján, we had created new industrial parks, and we had special government support for Wamsler, Salgglas, Mitsuba, Bumchun, Mikropakk, Eglo, SungEal or Alukov's investments in R &amp; D, job preservation, job creation or creating new value. The Hollókő and our national shrine Szentkút have been renewed as part of the world heritage, but in several places we have implemented a significant tourism attraction development project. Thanks to the programmes of the modern city and the Hungarian village, the resources of the regional development operational programme, the government's special subsidies, our cities and villages were able to move forward to an unprecedented extent. [[19.40]] We have launched the building of the oncological centre in Salgótarján, kindergarten renovation, cradle building, precipitation water drainage programs have been implemented or implemented. In addition, we built roads and sidewalks. However, the Covid, the less friendly European political space, the energy and sanctions policy in Brussels, and in particular the prolonged war conflict, have created a completely new situation at national and local level. Obviously, the most important thing now at national level is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction, but it is also important that we do not give up on our dreams. Thus, the development of Enjoy Park in Nógrád, the development of tourist attractions, organizational building, the revolutionary implementation of the reception conditions, the development of transport infrastructure by the construction of the bypass section of road 23, the development of a new transport link, the rethinking of the development of the main railway line 81, the management of cross-border programmes of the district of Banská Bystrica and the county of Nógrád, economic development, strengthening the area's ability to attract capital, enhanced economic cooperation, improving the conditions for upper and secondary education and, last but not least, the environmentally-friendly, future-oriented and sustainable development of our towns and villages. The chances and opportunities of East Nógrád are now significantly influenced by the macro-environment, the economic situation of the country, but the building of the future cannot be abandoned. Let us say that with a little skill we can build stairs from the stones that roll in our way. Thank you.
u2022-07-04-251	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, spoke with the title of our city, Pécs. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-252	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, on this occasion, we have to talk about the serious risks to our city and the specific dangers. A few weeks ago or perhaps a month ago Minister László Palkovics made a rather shocking statement. During his hearing with the Minister-designate, he spoke about the need for the government to open, where appropriate, decisions that had already been closed in view of the energy market situation in the current crisis and specifically mentioned that a possible re-launch of uranium mining in Mecsek might arise as a possible reserve. Well, that's an amazing idea, even at the level of thought experimentation, and I've been trying to find out about that question here for the last few weeks. It is perfectly clear to everyone who knows the history of uranium mining in Mecsekland, the amazing environmental destruction of this activity, and we also know that this work, this reconstruction work that had to be done because of the former uranium mining, will never end, and it has consumed an amazing amount of money, tens of billions of forints. We also know precisely that these uranium mining plans, which have been with us for the past ten years, are emerging from time to time, would not bring any economic benefits to the city of Pécs, would not even bring business tax revenue or create jobs. This is a completely different technology, by the way, than in the case of the former uranium mine. But we can also say that a specific authorisation procedure in the western part of Pécs would cause a huge impairment on the real estate market. So it can be seen that such a uranium mining permit procedure, if it were to reach the border, would cause serious economic damage to the population of Pécs, even in any way, even to such a cutting of uranium. It can also be quite clear to everyone that this energy self-determination would not be a solution for energy security, since uranium mining would not be nuclear fuel. What could be done here is that Hungary could buy fuel from the Russians according to the current situation, but here uranium mining in Mecsek would not in any way make any progress in terms of energy self-sufficiency. This could be done on the basis of renewables. In light of the facts and history, Pécs County City made a clear decision and rejected even the idea of restarting uranium mining, even rejecting its idea for our motion years ago. I would add that this was an almost complete political consensus, as the current governing parties, i.e. the politicians of Fidesz-KDNP, the local civilians and the politicians or organisations that have determined today's opposition, rejected the uranium mining plans, and yet this has now been in the mind of Minister Palkovics. In the last few weeks, I've been addressing a written question to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. [[Sic!]] which I had recently received an answer from Madam Deputy Minister, and this was quite surprising. That answer didn't say anything about what I asked, so what plans the government has. In return, the Ministry replied in an official reply that there is no procedure in Hungary today regarding possible uranium mining activities. Well, at about the same time, a reply from the Ministry revealed a document showing the procedure of the Baranya County Government Office that Magyar Urán Resources Kft. Indeed, it has re-launched its preliminary impact assessment procedure for the planned uranium mining activity and the request to do so. So it turns out that a Ministry of the Hungarian Government has given me false information, and has sent false information to the Pécs in this way, because today, contrary to what they claim, there is another authorisation procedure for possible uranium mining. It's quite amazing, and it's unparalleled. We have seen and seen many cases where information is denied, information is withheld, but specifically false information to mislead the population of the city of Pécs County, which, I can say, is unprecedented in the current system. We expect the government to state clearly, lay out the cards, provide the city of Pécs and the region with the exact information on what plans they have, what procedures are in progress, and finally take into account the interests of Pécs. Take into account the right of Pécs to maintain a healthy environment and the development concepts of Pécs, which are contrary to the plans for uranium mining and the nuclear cemetery, and finally represent the intention that has been achieved independently of Pécs' party policy. We don't need a uranium mine near Pécs, and we don't need a nuclear cemetery next to Pécs. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-04-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Dávid Dócs, the group of Mi Hungary, has applied for a post-meeting speech:. Instead of bribes, canned food will do! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-07-04-254	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. In recent days, we have witnessed the devastating event of the blackmail of transiters by highway cops in Kiskunfélegyháza and the adoption of money, tools, and canned goods for the abolition of the fine. If they did not cooperate, serious fines were imposed, even if there was no suspicion of an offence. Not only the uniform and the corps, but also the Hungarian state, have been discredited, as what state is it, whose lawkeepers are in such distress that in most cases foreign citizens passing through our country are being punished for canned goods, embarrassing our country to the Balkan level. This is not the first time we have talked about corruption in the public administration, and it is not the last time that this untenable situation in the police sector has been resolved. They cannot be removed from responsibility, but it makes me wonder why more and more public sector workers are resorting to corrupt money. The question is also answered by the draft budget of 2023, as we are talking about people who risk their physical integrity every day, yet they are forced to maintain themselves and their families on a disproportionately low salary. The solution is not to introduce new anti-corruption committees, but to ensure respect and decent wages. It is not viable to have a wage system in which the body responsible for our security needs to replace the payment ranking with 412. [[19.50]] Meanwhile, the price of food and basic articles is increasing day by day, which is making their unworthy situation worse. Meanwhile, the government's communication proves that people will not pay for the deficits caused by the crisis. Denial is true, only future time is not, because it is already being paid. We cannot expect our cutting-edge police officers to do their job with a low salary with a little exaggeration: to do their job for hunger and to do their job with complete devotion. These are precisely the sectors in which particularly high salaries should be made in order to avoid paymentability, moral loss, infidelity and the state's demise. Any government would be ashamed of you if you derailed the police to such a level. We have seen similar law enforcement before 2010, so only our country is credible on this subject, and we very much do not consider the financial impossibility of police officers to be viable. This results in consequences that lead only to a lack of peace and uncertainty in the country's life. It is the duty of the guards of the order to gain the trust of the people and to preserve our physical and material integrity. But the only way to restore the integrity of the force is to give it back is to trust the police first, not dislike them. In order to avoid this happening again, their wages must be settled, their motivation, their appreciation and a new career model must be restored, so that one of the most important public tasks, the maintenance of order, will not be further damaged, which is the basis for everything. Nor should the punishment of police officers who abuse their power be taken lightly, as this not only causes financial damage to citizens but also destroys the trust that has been built so far, along with the authority of the state. However, an example can only be made if they are not forced by their own employer, the Hungarian State, to do such unworthy acts by their humiliatingly low salary, which in the case of a beginner patrolman barely exceeds HUF 160,000 net. We can't stand by and watch this. The numbers speak for themselves, because if we spend more than a hundred billion dollars on government and public media, we support multinationals by tens, sometimes hundreds of billions, when there is chaos in the police circles, when they are most needed, the state should not save on this, and with these funds, the honour of the organization, the respect of uniforms, the security of the country should be restored. We ask the government to settle this unworthy situation as soon as possible. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2022-07-04-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
